Report No. 970-YAR
Appraisal of a
Second Education Project                                                  FILE Copy
in the Yemen Arab Republic
December 31, 1975
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 US Dollar      =       Yemeni Rial (YR) 4.50
YR1              =       US$ 0.22
YR 1,000         =       US$ 222
YR 1 million     =       US$ 222,200
MEASURES
1 m2             =       10.76 sq. ft.
I                =       0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare        =       2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ .. ............              i-iii
I.   INTROIDUCTION ...........................                           1
II.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND ...............................                 1
Physical Environment and Population              .      .          1
Economic Development .............................                 2
Economic Development Strategy ...............                      2
Employment Opportunities and Manpower Requirements                 2
III.   EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ........                  3
Present System ....... ...............                             3
Educational Development Strategy .................                 4
Education Finance  ................................                7
IV.   THE PROJECT ......................................                  7
Objectives ...........................,.                           7
Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls ....                 8
Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Boys .....                 9
District Training Centers ........................                 9
Basic Training Fund ......         ........................       11
Vocational Training Centers .......... .. ..........              13
Materials Production Center .......... .. ..........              14
Technical Assistance .............      .. ..............         15
Cost Estimates        ..................   .................      16
Financial Plan        .................. .................        17
Implementation .................. .................               18
Procurement       .................... ..................         19
Disbursements ................... .................               20
V.    SPECIAL FEATURES AND RISKS .......................               20
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....            ........     21



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   The Education and Training System
3.   First Education Project - Progress Summary
4.   Manpower Requirements by Activity Sector, 1973-1985
5.   Primary and Secondary Education Development
6.   Enrollment by Level and Type, 1973/74
7.   Actual Expenditures of the Ministry of Education
by Type of Expenditures, 1973/74
8.   Projection of Expenditures on Education, 1974-1985
9.   Expenditures on Education and Training, 1971-1974 and
Projected 1985 Expenditures by Sources
10.  Non-formal Basic Education and Training
11.   Schedule of Technical Assistance
12.   Project Costs by Type of Expenditures
13.   Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
14.   Contingency Allowances
15.   Financial Plan
16.   Implementation Schedule
17.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements to Basic Training Fund
18.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
BASIC DATA (1973)-/
Total Population                                                6.3 million
Population Growth Rate                                          2.3% p.a.
Per Capita GNP                                             US$100
Literacy Rate                                                  10%
Elementary School Enrollment as a                                 2/
Percentage of Age Group 6 - 11                               157%-
of which:  girls                                           12%
Lower Secondary School Enrollment as a                            2/
Percentage of Age Group 12 - 14                               27.-
of which:  girls                                            9%
Upper Secondary School Enrollment as a                            2/
Percentage of Age Group 15 - 17                               1%-
of which:  girls                                            7%
External Aid to Education and Training as a -
Percentage of Total Expenditures on Education                70%
Percentage of current expenditures on Education              60%
Percentage of capital expenditures on Education              80%
Public Expenditures on Education and Training as a -
Percentage of Total Public Expenditures                       6%
Percentage of current expenditures                            6%
Percentage of capital expenditures                            0.5%
Total Expenditures on Education, including External
Aid to Education, as percentage of Total Public
Expenditures                                                   15.0%
Public Expenditures on Education and Training as
a Percentage of GDP                                            0.5%
1/ See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed
description of the present education and training system.
2/ Including overaged students.






Summary and Conclusions
i.        Following isolation from the modern world until a decade ago and
the difficult years of civil war (1962-1970), the Yemen Arab Republic remains
underdeveloped. Efforts being made by the government to develop and modernize
the country are severely handicapped by a lack of natural resources and acute
shortages of qualified manpower as well as financial constraints which are
somewhat alleviated by substantial inputs of external aid.
ii.       The education system is one of the least developed in the world.
The government has given high priority to educational development and as a
result of its efforts, assisted by foreign aid donors and local communities,
primary and secondary school enrollments have increased by up to 30% annually
since 1969. However, participation rates remain very low, with only 15% and
2% of the respective age groups enrolled in primary and secondary schools.
Girls represent only 12% and 9%, respectively, of these enrollments. The sys-
tem also suffers from severe qualitative deficiencies due to the very low
educational and training levels of existing primary school teachers, unsuit-
able curricula and the almost complete absence of instructional materials.
iii.      The major challenges facing the education system in YAR are the
needs for: (a) provision of basic educational opportunities for a greatly
increased proportion of the young age group, with particular reference to ex-
panding opportunities for girls; (b) more relevant and practically oriented
primary school curricula for the great majority of students who will complete
their formal schooling at that level; (c) basic education and training for
the non-literate adolescent and adult population, whose employment prospects
will continue to be for the foreseeable future in agriculture and traditional
crafts; (d) training of skilled workers and technicians for the growing modern
sector and of qualified manpower in management and administration for all
sectors of the economy; and (e) strengthening of educational planning and
management within more appropriate organizational structures.
iv.       The first education project and the proposed second project are
designed to assist the government in responding to these chalienges. Measures
being taken under the first project include expanded provision for training
of teachers, skilled workers and technicians, including agricultural techni-
cians, as well as provision for non-formal education and training for the
non-literate adult population. Under the large technical assistance com-
ponent of the project, a UNDP/Unesco Task Force is currently advising the
government on the restructuring of the Ministry of Education and on educa-
tional reform at all levels.
v.        The proposed second project would strengthen and expand the reform
measures initiated under the first project through the following measures:
(a) Two new primary teacher training institutions for women
would be established and arrangements made for afternoon
classes for women in four existing primary teacher training
institutions for men being equipped under the project. New
teacher training programs would be introduced geared towards



- ii. -
basic education and training for primary school children
as well as for adults;
(b) Arrangements for the development of basic training programs
would be expanded on a pilot basis under the project into
the more remote rural areas and villages. Proposed dis-
trict training centers for Saada, Beiyda, Hajja and Zabid,
while providing training for the people in the towns in which
they are situated, would also train instructors and help to
motivate and organize training activities for the surrounding
villages. A new feature of the project would be the estab-
lishment of a basic training fund amounting to $1.0 million
to finance simple training faLcilities in the villages as
needs are determined, with a contribution in-kind from each
community of not less than 25% of investment costs;
(c) Vocational training would be extended into two new regional
centers at Taiz and Dhamar experiencing industrialization
and development, in trade specializations for which an urgent
need has been determined;
(d) An educational materials production center would be constructed
in simple facilities based on a study of the needs for instruc-
tional materiils as a means of improving the quality of teaching
in formal and non-formal education.
vi.       Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a) Construction, furniture and equipment for:
- 2 Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls
- 4 District Training Centers
-    Village-level training facilities to be financed under a
Basic Training Fund
- 2 Vocational Training Centers
-    Educational Materials Production Center;
(b) Equipment only for:
- 4 Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Boys;
(c) Related technical assistance.
vii.      The existing Project Unit, established within the Ministry of Educa-
tion, would be expanded to supervise the implementation of both the first and
second education projects. All the principal officers of the Unit would be
expatriates and their salaries would be financed under the proposed credit.



- iii -
viii.     Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the
Association's guidelines, except for (i) the construction of district train-
ing centers, which would be simple structures located in remote rural areas
and thus would not attract international bidding; (ii) construction of the
basic training facilities in villages which would normally be provided
through a self-help program; (iii) equipment items or categories of items
costing less than $10,000 which would be included in one miscellaneous cat-
egory not exceeding $300,000 for the total project, and (iv) contracts for
furniture or instructional materials costing less than $50,000 each. Contracts
for items (i), (iii) and (iv), and for (ii) where suitable self-help arrange-
ments do not apply, would be awarded on the basis of local procurement pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association. For items procured under ICB, local
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of pre-
ference equal to the existing rate of custom duty applicable to competing
imports or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever is lower, and qualified domestic
civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2%
over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
ix.       The total project cost is estimated at US$12.3 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$7.3 million. The project forms a suitable
basis for an IDA credit to the Government of the Yemen Arab Republic of US$8.0
million, equal to about 67% of the total cost of the project, which would meet
74% of the estimated foreign exchange component and 57% of the local costs.
The financing of technical assistance by UNDP would meet the remaining 26% of
the foreign exchange costs and about 7% of the local costs. The remaining 36%
of local costs would be financed by the government.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In July 1973, IDA extended its first credit (US$11 million) for an
education project in Yemen Arab Republic (Credit 421-YAR). The project was
designed to help increase the supply of qualified teachers for primary and
secondary schools, initiate worker training and upgrading as well as rural
training and non-formal basic education, and introduce agricultural education
and training as part of an expanded provision for secondary education. Proj-
ect implementation is now progressing well but is approximately eight months
behind the appraisal estimate due to initial delays in staff recruitment for
the Project Unit and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force established under the project.
While difficulties are being experienced in obtaining suitable candidates for
some specializations on the Task Force, recruitment is in general proceeding
satisfactorily (Annex 3). Design work is well advanced for all project insti-
tutions other than for two upper secondary schools, or alternative vocational
training institutions, included under the project, in substitution for which
the government has proposed a technical school and an agricultural secondary
school. A decision as to the form of upper secondary development which may
be financed under the credit will be taken when a projected study of secondary
education by the Task Force has been completed.
1.02      The proposed second education project would reinforce and expand
the teacher training, vocational training and basic education provided in the
first education project. The project was identified by an IDA reconnaissance
mission which visited the country in April 1975. An IDA mission consisting
of Messrs. C. N. Lindsay (Facilities Planner, mission leader), V. DeSa
(Technical Educator), D. Hilsaca (Economist), B. L. Masters (General Educator)
and R. Savas (Agricultural Educator) visited the country in May and June 1975,
to assist in the preparation of the project and to appraise the project.
I. Seragaldin (Educational Planner) joined the mission in the final week.
1.03      The proposed project was modified during appraisal in agreement
with the government. The number of vocational training centers was reduced
from 5 to 2 because of the lack of primary school graduates as trainees for
the centers in three of the areas proposed as well as the insufficient stage
of industrial development of these areas. District training centers to pro-
vide education and training more in keeping with the needs of the three rural
areas in question would be established under the project.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), located in the southwest corner of
the Arabian Peninsula, occupies a largely mountainous area of about 200,000
km2. It is bordered on the west by the Red Sea, on the southeast by the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen and on the north and northwest by
Saudi Arabia. The country has three main geographical areas: the agricul-
turally productive inland valleys and plateau containing more than three
quarters of the total population, the Tihama coastal plain and the desert
beginning on the eastern slopes of the plateau.



-2
2.02      The population, estimated at about 6.3 million, is increasing at
about 2.3% p.a. but is expected to increase at a faster rate due to improve-
ments in nutrition and health services. Average age is low with about 48%
under 15 years of age. Yemenis share the Arabic language and the Islamic
religion but the social structure remains varied and fundamentally tribal,
giving unique political, cultural and social characteristics to each of the
governorates. The population is largely rural with three important urban
centers: Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida. Most of the rural population live in
small scattered towns and village with poor communications which make diffi-
cult the provision of social services such as education and public health.
Economic Development
2.03      Virtually isolated from modern science and technology until a decade
ago, YAR remains among the 25 least developed countries in the world with a
per capita GNP of around $100. Moreover, development efforts are seriously
handicapped by a paucity of natural resources and acute shortage of qualified
manpower which is limiting YAR's capacity to absorb the foreign aid made avail-
able by bilateral and multilateral donors.
2.04      The YAR's economy traditionally depends on agriculture, which con-
tributes nearly two-thirds of GDP, 90% to exports, and provides a livelihood,
at subsistence level, for about 85% of the population. Farming techniques are
traditional and farmers have little if any educational background. The indus-
trial sector is still in its early stages, employing about 1.0% of the esti-
mated labor force and contributing about 6% to GDP. Traditional skills in
wood and metalwork handicrafts are well developed, but workers in such crafts
operate under primitive conditions with low productivity and low wages.
Economic Development Strategy
2.05      The Development Program for 1973/74-1975/76 defines a general devel-
opment strategy under which priority is given to: (i) the development of the
agricultural sector; (ii) education and manpower development; and (iii) strength-
ening infrastructure facilities and services. Other goals include government
institution building, especially at the local level, and the development of
statistical services. A significant feature of planned investment is the ex-
tent of direct dependence on foreign financing which is expected to account
for about 75% of planned investment for the first program period.
Employment Opportunities and Manpower Requirements
2.06      In the absence of manpower studies, a projection of manpower demand
to 1985 was made by the mission indicating average annual demand for about
58,000 additional workers (Annex 4), of which about 38,000 would be at the
lower skill levels in agriculture. The balance of the demand would arise in
the modern sector as a result of an expected economic growth of about 7% in
that sector, as against an overall growth of about 5%, with half of the demand
arising at the unskilled or semi-skilled basic education level. Average annual
employment opportunities for the period 1975-1985 for those graduating from
secondary or higher level programs are summarized in the following table:



-3-
Proposed Annual
Output from
1974-75 Output       Education
Projected Average  from Educational        Projects
Annual Demand          System         1st   Prop. 2nd
Post Secondary School
Leavers
a. Teachers                    400                  -            150
b. Others                       350                 45            -
Secondary School Leavers
a. Teachers                  1,500                 108          40 a!2    640/1
b. Technical                  1,150                 60           180/2
c. Managerial/Office
Workers                 4,500                400           350/2        /2
d. Skilled Manual            1,800                  -           270--    200--
9,700                613         1,350      840
/1   On the basis of two-year accelerated training and excluding upgrading
programs.
/2   Excluding upgrading programs.
2.07      A proposed expansion of the University of Sana'a which is being
financed by Kuwait would enable needs at the post-secondary level to be met,
provided measures are taken to regulate intake in accordance with needs in
individual disciplines. The manpower figures in the above table indicate
only broad orders of magnitude. Modern sector education and training needs
will be determined more clearly when manpower studies proposed by the govern-
ment and the studies of secondary and higher level requirements being under-
taken by the UNDP/Unesco Task Force have been completed.
III. EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
Present System (Annexes 2, 5 & 6)
3.01      Planning and administration of the education and training system
are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education in cooperation with the
Central Planning Organization. The Ministry is represented by a Regional
Director of Education in each of the ten governorates. Other ministries
perform a limited training role, generally in conjunction with specific
development projects. Planning and administration urgently need to be
strengthened at both central and regional levels. Coordination of the
efforts of the central and regional administration, local communities and



- 4 -
the very considerable contribution oE external aid donors into coherent de-
velopment programs does not exist. Furthermore, efforts in introducing or
expanding vocational training are spread among many ministries and organiza-
tions and no overall coordination at the planning level exists.
3.02      The country's formal education system was established by decree in
1963, but effective educational development did not commence until the ending
of ithe Civil War in 1969/70. Previously, the education system consisted
essentially of Koranic schools whose exclusive purpose was religious and
literacy training. The present system is based on a six-year primary cycle,
a three-year lower secondary and a three-year upper secondary cycle and up to
four years of university education. Secondary technical education and train-
ing is offered in one five-year post-primary technical school. Primary teacher
training is provided in three to six--year programs at secondary level. Second-
ary teacher training will commence in 1975 as part of the final two years of
a four-year university program.
3.03      The education system is one of the least developed in the world,
both in quantity and quality. Despite an impressive growth in enrollments of
about 30% p.a. between 1969 and 1973, and a 20% increase in 1974, only 15%
and 2% of the respective age groups were enrolled in primary and secondary
schools in 1974, and girls represented only 12% and 9% of the primary and
secondary school enrollments, respect:ively. A random sampling suggests that
about 70% of students may be overagecd due to late entry, varying from about
eight years of age on entry in cities to about 11 years of age in rural areas.
Because of limited availability of accommodation and, to a far greater extent,
of teachers, only about 13% of primary schools offer the full range of grades
and about 60% of the schools have only three grade levels or less. Therefore,
despite low failure rates, only about 35% of those who enter grade 1 complete
grade 4 and only about 20% enroll in grade 6, from which 75% progress to the
secondary level. Of about 90 schools at secondary level in 1974, only 19
offered upper secondary programs.
Educational Development Strategy
3.04      A number of important measures for educational development have
already been undertaken or are proposed by the government. A Council of
Education with overall responsibility for policy formulation and a Committee
for Teacher Training have recently been established, while a new structure for
the Ministry of Education is under consideration. Studies are being undertaken
by the government, with the assistance of the UNDP/Unesco Task Force, at all
educational levels to determine a long-term educational strategy. In the
meantime, government policy is to extend education and training on the follow-
ing basis:
(i)  To provide non-formal basic training combined with functional
literacy for the non-literate adult population, which is esti-
mated to be 90% of the adult population, to raise their em-
ployment and productivity level. Proposals by the Task Force
for a basic training scheme have been agreed by the government
and by IDA. The scheme is being initiated under the first IDA
education project and developed further under the proposed
second project (paras. 4.09-4.19).



(ii) To extend and upgrade primary education for all children be-
tween 6 and 11 years of age, with particular stress on encour-
aging greater participation by girls.  The duration and content
of primary school programs are being reviewed by the Task
Force with particular regard to the late age of entry of stud-
ents and the need to take into account students' future social
and employment prospects. A survev is also being undertaken
with the assistance of the Task Force to determine the need
for upgrading facilities as well as school location planning.
At present primary education, in particular, suffers from
unevenness in geographic distribution and quality of schools
as well as inadequacies in furniture and materials. In the
major cities, rooms are overcrowded with classes of up to
100 pcipils and many schools operate on the basis of two and
even three shifts; however, in rural areas some schools are
unattended because they lack teachers or are badly located
while in some villages only make-shift shelter is available.
(iii) To establish primary teacher training institutes on a re-
gional basis to attract a greater number of trainees at the
local level. As an emergency measure to meet expansion needs
and to replace existing untrained teachers by 1985, training
will be provided in 24-month concentrated courses, in accordance
with revised programs which are currently being prepared, at
post-lower secondary level in the three major cities and at post-
primary level elsewhere. The limited availability of qualified
primary school teachers is the most serious obstacle to the
effective improvement and expansion of primary education. An
estimated 80% of the teaching force is untrained by government
standards and, of these, a conservative estimate suggests that
about 40% have not completed primary education: this latter
percentage is as high as 80% in the least developed areas. Fur-
thermore, only about 41% are permanent teachers, the rest being
employed on a contract basis. On the other hand, the output
from primary teacher training institutes in 1974 was only 108
as against a required output of about 1,500 annually. Expansion
in teacher training has been limited by the lack of even primary
school graduates to fill trainee places outside the three main
cities, unwillingness to enter teacher training and high dropout
rates due to the attraction of alternative studies, student dis-
satisfaction with stipend payments, lack of boarding facilities,
and poor quality of training.  Enrollments are expected to in-
crease now that stipend payments are being improved, teacher
salaries have been raised substantially and better criteria are
being established for the selection of teacher trainers.
(iv) To extend secondary education in accordance with the country's
development needs. The government wishes to diversify secondary
education to include more pre-vocational subjects and to meet
commercial and technician needs at the upper secondary level.
A study, being undertaken by the Task Force to determine needs



and priorities in secondary education development, will indicate,
inter alia, the level of intake into secondary education required
to meet development needs and the constraints which would be ap-
propriate on future access to secondary education. No such
constraints currently exist or are necessary in view of the
limited output of primary school graduates and, correspondingly,
the limited intake into secondary education.
(v) To train Yemeni secondary teachers in sufficient numbers to meet
the projected expansion of secondary education and to replace
expatriate teachers by 199). Of the about 750 teachers in gen-
eral secondary schools in 1973/74, all were expatriates other
than teachers of religion, and only 1% was women. The quality
of instruction is low with few effective attempts to adapt
teaching to local conditions. The training of Yemeni secondary
teachers commenced in Autumn 1975 in temporary accommodation in
the University of Sana'a, pending completion of a new Secondary
Teacher Training College being financed under the first educa-
tion project. The output of secondary teachers in 1977 is ex-
pected to be 150; this wilL have to increase to about 400 an-
nually by 1985 to meet the government's targeted expansion in
secondary education and replacement of expatriate teachers, as
well as meeting the needs for school administrators, inspectors
and primary teacher trainers.
(vi) To develop post-primary vocational training on a regional basis
commensurate with regional needs, while recognizing that there
may be some loss of such trained personnel through emigration.
Vocational training is being initiated under the first IDA edu-
cation project and is being extended into two new centers under
the proposed second project:. Further development of vocational
training at this stage in other areas is constrained by the
shortage of suitable trainees owing to the limited availability
of primary school graduates, the shortage of instructors for
teaching trade/technical slbjects and the lack of an industrial
base outside the locations for which training centers are cur-
rently proposed.
(vii)  To prepare and print textbooks and to develop and produce other
educational materials within YAR. At present, there is an al-
most complete absence of teaching materials which is compounded
by the use of textbooks written for countries and cultures for-
eign to Yemen. To ameliorate this condition, a printing press
is being established and an educational materials production
center is included under the proposed second education project.
3.05      Enrollment projections to 1985 at primary and secondary levels were
made by the mission and are summarized in Annex 5. The projections at primary
level, which conform to government expectations, assume a gradual improvement
to 90% in progression rates in the first three grades and an annual increase
in the first grade intake of about 10%. On this basis, intake in 1985 would
represent about 65% of 6-year olds (of which 30% are expected to be girls)
and overall primary school enrollment:s would represent about 47% of the age-



group. The projections at secondary level assume that about 50% of 6th grade
students would proceed to some form of secondary program to meet estimated
manpower needs at that level by 1985. However, these projections are tenta-
tive pending the outcome of the Task Force studies.
Education Finance (Annexes 7, 8 and 9)
3.06      Except for some 30 religious schools and three private schools, fi-
nancial resporsibility for education rests primarily with the central govern-
ment. Since 1969/70 external aid has financed 80% of capital expenditures and
60% of recurrent expenditures. Local communities, mainly through local devel-
opment boards, are playing an increasingly important role in the provision of
primary schools and contributed about 40% of expenditures of YR 4.3 million
on school construction from domestic sources in 1972/73.
3.07      Due to lack of qualified manpower, the country's capacity for de-
veloping and implementing educational programs is limited. As a result and
because of the extent of external aid to education, YAR is spending only a
small portion of its national resources on education. In 1973/74, public
recurrent expenditures on education accounted for less than 6% of total public
recurrent expenditures, 7% of government revenues and only one half of one
percent of GDP -- among the lowest levels in the world.
3.08      Taking into account a recent 120% increase in teachers' salaries
and increased expenditures on teaching material, the projected growth in
student enrollments (Annex 5) is expected to increase total expenditures,
capital and recurrent, on education from its present level of 66 YR millions
(including external aid), or 1.8% of GDP, to 427 YR millions, or 6.7% of pro-
jected GDP by 1985. Should external aid continue to provide the same per-
centage input as at present, expenditures from domestic sources on education
would increase from the present 0.5% to 2.3% of GDP, and recurrent expendi-
tures on education would increase from 5.6% to 14% of total public recurrent
expenditures. These expenditure targets, while ambitious, could be achieved
given the high priority attached to educational development and provided that
the government's expectations of a high level of external aid are fulfilled.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(i)  to introduce more relevant training programs in primary teacher
training institutes while expanding provision for the training
of women teachers;
(ii)  to reinforce the development of basic training programs for
non-literate adolescents and adults and to extend such training
into the villages and remote rural areas;
(iii)  to expand the provision for vocational training to assist in
meeting the shortage of skilled labor in the country; and



- 8 -
(iv) to raise the quality of instruction through the provision of
suitable instructional materials.
4.02      Specifically, the project would comprise:  (a) construction and/or
equipping of the following institutions; and (b) related technical assistance:
Estimated
Type of                        Total Capacity   Annual    Student
Locations        Institutions           Grade   New  Replacement  Output   Boarding
Taiz,     2 Primary Teacher Training
Hodeida      Institutes for Girls        10-11     440    120          260      140 /1
Ibb,      4 Primary Teacher Training
Dhamar,      Institutes for Boys
Saada,       (Equipment only)             7-8     n.a.    n.a.         400      -
Betyda
Saada,    4 District Training
Beiyda,     Centers                   ungraded    700       -        5,200      - /1
Hajja,
Zabid
- /2       Village Training
facilities               ungraded  3,750       -        7,500      - /1
Taiz,     2 Vocational Training         7-8 &
Dhamar      Centers                   ungraded    480       -          500    146 /1
Sana'a      Educational Materials
Production Center           n.a.     n.a.    n.a.         -        -
/1   Principal's housing also provided.
/2   To be specified as needs are determined.
Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls
4.03      The two project institutes would replace facilities in girls' second-
ary schools which, as a result of gross overcrowding, are no longer suitable
for teacher training. The existing schools are being provided with supplement-
ary specialized equipment under the first education project and this equipment
would be retained for the use of the secondary students when the proposed new
training institutes are built. Enrollment capacity in each institute would be
240 pre-service and 40 in-service students in two-year post-lower secondary
and one-year courses, respectively. About half of the proposed boarding places
would be available for in-service trainees and the remainder would be provided
in support of the government's policy of attracting girls from outlying areas
into teaching.
4.04      The curriculum proposed for the two-year training will emphasize
teaching methodology and subject content related to basic education and train-
ing at the primary level.  It will have particular regard to training in the
teaching of numeracy and literacy and to such skills as would be relevant for



-9-
those terminating their formal schooling in the primary school.    gLtne
nutrition and home science will form an important part of the course content.
The role of teachers outside the classroom in the context of YAR, in educa-
tion and training for adults, will also be emphasized. About 50% of the time
will be devoted to training in teaching, practice teaching, and production
and use of simple teaching materials and about 50% to academic upgrading.
4.05      The staff of 26 in each institute would consist of a Yemeni director
and deputy director, an expert technical advisor and teacher trainers, each
of whom would have a university degree (or its equivalent) and at least 5
years' teaching experience. The expert would be provided under the technical
assistance component of the project, while the trainers would be obtained
through an ongoing program of assistance from bilateral sources. Students
would receive a stipend from the government during training and would be re-
quired to teach in primary schools for at least five years after graduation.
The government has provided an assurance to this effect and also that the
staff appointed to the proposed institutes would have the aforementioned
qualifications and teaching experience.
Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Boys
4.06      The four boys primary teacher training institutes for which equip-
ment would be provided under the proposed project were built by Saudi Arabia
and will receive students for the first time in 1975/76, in training courses
at the lower secondary level. The capacity of each institute is about 270.
4.07      The government intends that these institutes will operate on a
double shift basis in order to provide a separate shift for girls until suffi-
cient girls are available for training in these cities to warrant the estab-
lishment of separate girls' institutes. To cater for revised training needs
for boys as well as for girls (para. 4.04), some additions to existing accom-
modations will be required and the government has provided an assurance that
one-cratt and one home science room will be provided in each institute.
4.08      As these institutes are in rural areas and will be catering almost
exclusively to post-primary level trainees in two-year courses, equipment
costs have been estimated on the basis of simple, basic equipment to be used
by about 30 trainees per class. The equipment would reflect the practical
nature of the training to be provided and would include equipment for science,
industrial/agricultural crafts, production of teaching materials and home
science/nutrition.
District Training Centers (Annex 10)
4.09      The objective of this project item is to assist the government in
implementing a basic training scheme aimed at providing training and educa-
tional opportunities for the non-literate adolescent and adult population
living in rural areas. The scheme is being initiated on a pilot basis under
the first education project through the establishment of three district train-
ing centers (DTCs). A further four centers would be provided under this proj-
ect in order to provide better representation of the main rural areas and thus
to increase the impact of the scheme at this critical stage in the country's



- 10 -
educational development. The experiences gained during the initial period
of the scheme -- organizational, administrative, financial, course types and
content, teaching methods, attitudes of trainees, etc. -- would provide valu-
able information for the expansion of the scheme in all regions of the country.
A system of evaluation, including a tracer system, will be developed by the
UNDP/Unesco Task Force, with the assistance of short-term consultants under
the first education project, under which the effectiveness of the basic train-
ing activities would be continuously assessed by the district training centers
and an overall evaluation made of the basic training scheme at the end of two
years of operation.
4.10      Training activities in the villages are the grass-roots of the basic
training scheme. The kind of training programs to be offered would be handled
in a flexible manner taking into account the requirements, the habits and life
styles of the communities. As the normal pattern of school years and weekly
periods do not apply, a number of time units (20 periods each) have been fore-
seen for each program, with the number of units varying from 1 to 30. Although
all training programs would include a literacy and training component, they can
be grouped as: (a) literacy or funct:ional literacy courses combining the ac-
quisition of literacy with basic occupational skills (agricultural and voca-
tional) or home and family life; (b) agricultural courses to be organized in
conjunction with agricultural extension services; (c) vocational courses to
provide a certain level of skill which would make the trainees further train-
able if they want to seek modern sector employment, or to enable them to
exercise their present occupations more effectively; (d) home and family
courses primarily for the female population, emphasizing hygiene, health,
nutrition, child care, food preservation and homecrafts; and (e) community
life and general courses. When educational inputs are required for the
successful implementation of development projects, special ad-hoc courses
would also be organized. Short-term consultants for the preparation of
curricula and teaching materials for the basic training programs are being
provided under the first education project.
4.11      The DTCs would play a vital role in the country's basic training
scheme. They would have considerable autonomy, within overall national policy
and budgetary constraints, in determining training programs, hiring instructors,
finance and procurement. In addition to providing training for the people in
the towns where the centers are located, they would support training at the
community/village level by providing: (a) leader/trainers who would be re-
sponsible for motivating and helping to organize and manage the training ac-
tivities; (b) training for village instructors who would be recruited among
the suitably qualified people in the community and employed on a contractual
basis; (c) training accommodations, furniture, equipment and teaching material
packages through the proposed Basic Training Fund (para. 4.16); and (d) finan-
cial assistance towards recurrent costs of training programs through the
center's operating budget to be funded by the government.
4.12      Each DTC, in full operation, would train about 1,300 people per year
in its facilities and in classrooms of a neighboring public school. In addi-
tion, some 1,500 people would be trained in 10-12 community/villages in the



- 11 -
catchment area of the DTC through village-level activities. Thus, each center
would provide basic training to about 2,800 rural inhabitants per year. A
considerable number of the population would also be reached to some extent
through various communication media, especially mobile audio-visual aids,
which would be provided by the DTC to support village activities.
4.13      The proposed four DTCs would be located in towns with populations
estimated at between 8,000 and 12,000 which would, in common with the first
three centers, provide sufficient numbers of youths and adults for the DTC's
training activities. In addition, a substantial number of nearby villages
would be served by the DTCs. Each DTC would therefore service a population
area of between 60,000 and 80,000, depending on population density and access-
ibility of villages. The four proposed locations which, together with the
initial three, are widely spread throughout the country in six of the ten
governorates, are all centers of very underdeveloped rural areas but have
potential for socio-economic development. The existence of active local
development boards in the areas is a favorable indicator of potential local
participation in basic training programs for which there is a widely felt need.
4.14      The main organizational principle of the basic training scheme is
to obtain the involvement of the population at large, with appropriate sup-
port from the government in the development process. Communities leaders in
villages and rural towns would have a voice in determining the type of basic
education and training they would need and receive. Through representation
on village community councils and district councils, they would participate
in the management and would contribute to the development of the basic train-
ing scheme.
4.15      Administration of the scheme would take place essentially at the
district level in coordination with the community councils and with reference
to national level only on matters of major policy and overall financial control.
The technical input for such administration would be furnished by the staff of
the DTCs, assisted by other qualified people at district level, e.g. the re-
gional director of education, the agricultural extension agent, etc. The
various interests concerned at the district level would be represented on a
District Council for each DTC. At national level, a National Basic Training
Board chaired by the Minister of Education or his representative and with re-
presentatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Social Affairs, Labor and
Youth, Health, Information and Finance, the Central Planning Organization,
and the Federation of Local Development Boards would determine overall
policy and exercise overall financial control. The Board would be assisted
by a small secretariat headed by an educational administrator. The govern-
ment has provided assurances that the National Board and a District Council
for each DTC, whose composition and functions would be agreeable to IDA,
would be established not later than 9 months and 15 months, respectively,
after Credit signing.
Basic Training Fund
4.16      The basic training activities (para. 4.10) would be accommodated in
villages in whatever locale may be found suitable or capable of being adapted
for the purpose with limited financial investment. To supplement these facil-
ities or where they do not exist, communities wishing to have basic training



- 12 -
may provide physical shelter through community efforts but with government
assistance. Such building may be suited to a variety of purposes and would
normally take the form of a simple structure to accommodate, in two sections,
vocational crafts and home crafts. Rudimentary furniture, mostly benches,
and equipment would also be required. The basic equipment would not require
permanent installation or electric power but would take the form of sets of
basic handtools for woodworking, rural construction, basic mechanics, basic
automechanics, home life and crafts.
4.17      Since it would be neither desirable nor feasible to attempt to
predetermine at this stage the locations for village-level activities nor
the range of programs which would be required at any given location, it is
proposed under this project item to establish a fund to meet the investment
costs of such activities as they arise. The fund would encourage the devel-
opment of training programs by providing an immediate source of finance,
within the financial limitations of the fund, for any community with the
initiative to develop suitable prograns.
4.18      The fund (Basic Training Fund) would be established at the Yemen
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, an existing commercial bank with an
established network of branch offices throughout most of the YAR. The amount
to be allocated to the fund under the proposed credit would amount to US$1.0
million, to be paid into the fund on a phased basis over three years (Annex
15). An initial payment of US$50,000 into the fund would be made on receipt
of confirmation from the government by the Association that the National Board
and at least one of the District Councils had been established; subsequent
payments into the fund would be made on application from the government,
normally to be made quarterly, in the form of reimbursement for expenditures
already made from the fund, supported by details of locations, programs and
facilities for which expenditures had been made, together with copies of
furniture, equipment and construction contracts (if any) and appropriate
receipts.
4.19      Disbursements from the fund, which would require the signatures
of the Minister of Education and of the Educational Administrator of the
National Board Secretariat, or their designated representatives, would be
made to the Directors of the DTCs and would be subject to the following
conditions:
(i) The National Board would not: approve investment in any single
community of more than US$30,000 from the fund, of which about
US$15,000 would be for builclings, US$12,000 for equipment and
materials and $3,000 for furniture;
i(ii) Proposals to be made by the Director of a DTC to the National
Board for funding for a comniunity training scheme would be
supported by details of the proposed training programs and of
required furniture, equipment and construction (with estimated
costs);
(iii) Only training programs on the lines of those indicated in para.
4.11 or such special courses as may be approved by the National
Board would qualify for funding;



- 13 -
(iv) Proposals for funding for any community would be approved only
where a community council had been formed, where the community
had indicated its wish to participate in basic training programs
and where a commitment existed on a contribution in kind by the
community of 25% of the cost of the proposed investment; and
(v) The Director of the DTC submitting a proposal for funding would
provide confirmation that an instructor would be available for
the proposed training programs and that adequate funds would be
available within the budget of the DTC to meet the recurrent
costs of the programs.
Vocational Training Centers
4.20      To help bridge the gap between supply and demand for skilled workers
in the industrial and services sectors of the economy, the project would in-
clude two new vocational training centers in the regional centers of Taiz
and Dhamar, which are experiencing increasing industrialization and develop-
ment. These centers would extend the program of vocational training initiated
under the first education project in specializations for which an urgent need
has been determined. The proposed centers would provide basic skill training
programs of 2 years duration in selected trades for youths who have success-
fully completed primary school education and, also, further training through
part-time evening courses for upgrading skills of existing workers. When
fully operational, the combined annual output of the two centers would be
200 from the full-time basic training programs and 300 from the upgrading
programs. The output from the full-time program together with the output
-(270) from similar programs under the first project would meet about 25%
of estimated annual needs for skilled workers.
4.21      The trades to be taught initially would include:  piping, plumbing,
and pump mechanics; sheet metal and welding; automotive and diesel engine
mechanics; electrical installation and electrotechnics; woodworking and
furniture making; general machinists and fitting; building construction;
and surveying. The instruction program would be on a modular basis and
the full-time curriculum would include general education, basic training
in knowledge and skills common to a broad range of occupations, specializa-
tions in directly employable skills and supervised initiation into real work
situations. The length and the content of the part-time courses would vary
depending on the skill level of the trainees and the trade/occupation require-
ments. As a prerequisite to the development of relevant skill training pro-
grams, the government has provided assurances that a Vocational Training Board
will be established under the Central Planning Organization not later than
October, 1976, to coordinate the skill training plans and activities of all
ministries dealing with vocational training.
4.22      The combined total of trade instructors required for the two centers
would be about 35. In the initial years of operation, it will be necessary to
employ expatriate specialists as project managers and in the specific trades
for each of the centers. Provision accordingly is included in the technical
assistance component of the project for 28 man/years of specialist services to



- 14 -
be financed by UNDP. The principal source of supply of potential instructors
from within YAR would be the technical secondary school in Sana'a. The
graduates of the technical school would require further training overseas
before assuming posts as instructors -- 8 months of pedagogical training for
all and a further 12 months of upgrading for those proposed as chief instruc-
tors --for which financing is availabLe under the ongoing UNDP fellowship
program. The government has provided assurances that: (i) the pay scales and
benefits for the posts of trade instrumctors would be comparable with posts
requiring similar qualifications in the competing public sector development
organizations, and (ii) that instructors would be recruited in due time to
enable them to complete their pre-service training before taking up posts at
the centers.
Materials Production Center
4.23      No facilities currently exist in YAR for the production or repro-
duction of audio or visual materials or of models or equipment for use in
schools. The original proposal of the government was to construct a workshop
building, on the site of a proposed printing press, to accommodate two types
of production and maintenance sections, one for general educational materials
and the other for scientific equipment: to be used in the formal school system.
However, with the commencement of non-formal basic training, an urgent need
also exists to establish a unit which will coordinate, oversee and produce
various educational materials for the basic training programs. The govern-
ment's proposals for a materials production center were therefore extended
in concept during appraisal to include non-formal and formal educational
development.
4.24      The purposes of the center would be:  (i) to design and test pro-
totypes of educational materials applicable to formal and non-formal programs
in YAR; (ii) to produce elementary materials -- visual, audio and scientific --
in sufficient quantities for use initially in the project institutions but
later, if practical, for use in institutions throughout the country; and (iii)
to assemble, maintain and repair educational materials and simple scientific
equipment and to prepare guidelines for their evaluation and standardization.
The proposed center would consist of two sections. A materials production
and maintenance section would produce models in wood, plaster and plastic as
well as a range of maps, charts, diagrams, slide pictures and overhead trans-
parencies appropriate for different programs. The science equipment mate-
rials production and maintenance unit would concentrate initially on the
design and production of simple scientific observation and demonstration
materials.
4.25      The total investment costs for the center would be determined by a
study, which would examine in detail: (i) the needs for educational materials
for formal and non-formal training: (ii) the nature and size of the center
required to respond to those needs ade,quately; (iii) equipment and furniture
lists and costings for each section of the proposed center; (iv) staffing and
training requirements: (v) accommodation requirements: and (vi) the center's
phase,d development. The allocation under the proposed credit for the center
(US$430,000, excluding physical contingencies and price increases) would en-



- 15 -
able commencement of the center in simple facilities but would require addi-
tional financing for its further development at a later stage. The govern-
ment has provided assurances that: (i) the above study would be completed
within twelve months of signing of the Credit Agreement; and (ii) proposals
for center activities, construction works, furniture and equipment would be
submitted for review by IDA within twenty months of signing of the Credit
Agreement.
Technical Assistance
4.26      The proposed technical assistance program, which has been agreed
with the government and with UNDP, is detailed in Annex 11 and is summarized
below:
(i) 20 teacher trainers, to be financed from an ongoing program
of bilateral assistance (40 man/years);
(ii) Fellowships: 4 in teacher training, 4 in administration
of teacher training institutes, 16 in audio-visual and
materials production, 24 in vocational training and 8 in
basic training, for which financing is available under an
ongoing UNDP fellowship program (74 man/years);
(iii) Experts: 2 in teacher training, 2 in audio-visual and
materials production, 14 in vocational training and 8 in
basic training (including 4 technician-level crafts
specialists), for which UNDP has agreed to provide finan-
cing (52 man/years);
(iv) Experts: 4 additional staff posts and continuance of 5
existing staff posts for the Project Unit, 2 experts for
the study for the proposed Materials Production Center and
1 educational administration expert for the basic training
scheme (to be assigned to the National Board secretariat),
to be financed under the proposed credit (24 1/2 man/years).



- 16 -
Cost Estimates
4.27      The estimated total cost and foreign exchange component of the
project are US$11.91 and US$7.30 respectively, distributed among the various
project items as follows: 1/                                                      % of
Base
YE. (millions)       US$ (millions)       Line
Local. Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Costs
A. Physical Facilities
Two Primary Teacher Training
Institutes for Girls                2.50    2.50  5.00    .55    .56   1.11  13.0%
Four Primary Teacher Training
Institutes for Boys (equip-
ment only)                           .13    1.18  1.31    .03    .26    .29   3.4%
Two Vocational Training Centers       4.11.   5.05  9.16    .91   1.12   2.03  23.7%
Four District Training Centers        2.38    2.86  5.24    .53    .64   1.17  13.7%
Basic Training Fund (village-
leve:L facilities)                  1.56    2.94  4.50    .34    .66   1.00/211.7%
Educational Materials Produc-
tion Center                          .67    1.27  1.94    .15    .28    .43   5.0%
Sub-total (A)              11.35'  15.80 27.15   2.51   3.52   6.03  70.5%
B. Services
Consultant Architects' Fees            .16      .66   .82    .04    .15    .19   2.2%
Project Administration                1.84      .62  2.46    .41    .13    .54   6.3%
Technical Assistance                  1.21    6.85  8.06    .27   1.52   1.79  21.0%
Sub-total (B)               3.21    8.13 11.34    .72   1.80   2.52  29.5%
C. Base Line Costs (A + B)              14.56   23.93 38.49   3.23   5.32   8.55 100.0%
D. Contingencies
Physical Increase                     1.15    1.72  2.87    .26    .38    .64   7.5%
Price Increase                        5.06    7.19 12.25   1.12   1.60   2.72  31.8%
Sub-total (D)               6.2:L    8.91 15.12   1.38   1.98   3.36  39.3%
TOTAL PROJECT COST         20.77   32.84 53.61   4.61   7.30  11.91
/1 Estimated costs by type of expenditures are presented in Annex 12.
/2 Beneficiaries would contribute an additional US$0.33 million equivalent
in-kind towards the provision of village training facilities.



- 17 -
4.28      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based on
unit prices for recently awarded contracts and furniture costs are based on
unit prices obtained from a survey of local manufacturers. YAR has a competi-
tive furniture manufacturing industry adequate to meet the requirements of
the project and all furniture contracts are expected to be awarded to local
firms. Equipment costs are based on recent experiences from international
market prices. The estimates have been adjusted to reflect the anticipated
prices at the time of negotiations of the Credit Agreement (December, 1975).
4.29      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions or extensions of professional services equal to 10% of the
estimated costs of civil works, furniture, equipment and consultant architects
fees and 5% of the estimated cost of project administration and technical
assistance (Annex 14). Price escalation contingency has been calculated for
a period beginning January 1976, based on anticipated price increases of 14%
for the first and 12% for the following 3 years of implementation for civil
works; 10% for the first year and 8% for the following 3 years for equipment
and furniture; 10% for two years for architectural services; and 8% for the
4 years of implementation for project administration and technical assistance.
Consequently during the scheduled implementation period, price escalation,
calculated on the base line cost (excluding the Basic Training Fund on which
there is no contingency or price increase allowance), plus physical contin-
gencies would amount to about 40% for civil works, 33% for furniture and
equipment, 15% for professional services and 25% for technical assistance and
project administration. Because of difficulties in forecasting future dif-
ferences, the same rates of price increase have been applied to both foreign
and local estimates. Accordingly, overall contingencies for price increases
are estimated at about 30% of base line costs (including the Basic Training
Fund) plus physical contingencies or 32% of the base line cost.
4.30      The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.3 million, or
about 61% of total project cost. It was calculated as follows: (i) civil
works, 40%; (ii) furniture, 75%; (iii) equipment, 90%; (iv) consultant
architects' services 80%; (v) technical assistance 85%; and (vi) project
administration, 25%.
4.31      The annual recurrent costs generated by the institutions included
in the proposed project would be about YR 5.7 million, corresponding to
about 1.8% of projected total recurrent expenditure on education in 1985.
As the goverment has given the necessary priority to the project institu-
tions, these recurrent costs should be met without any difficulty.
Financial Plan
4.32      The proposed credit of US$8.0 million, equal to 67% of total project
costs, would finance 74% of the total foreign exchange cost and 57% of the
local costs. The technical assistance to be provided by UNDP would represent
the remaining 26% of the estimated foreign exchange cost and about 7% of the
local costs. The remaining 36% of local costs would be financed by the govern-
ment.



- 18 -
Government    IDA        UNDP      Total
--------- US$ millions 
1.   Civil Works                             1.53        3.62        -        5.15
2.   Furniture                                 -          .51        -         .51
3.   Equipment                                 -         2.45        -        2.45
4.   Professional Services                     -          .21        -         .21
5.   Project Administration                    -          .69        -         .69
6.   Technical Assistance                     _           .11      2.15       2.26
Sub-total (including
price increase contingencies)         1.53       7.59       2.15      11.27
7.   Physical Contingencies                   .14         .41       .09        .64
Total                              1.67       8.00       2.24     11.91
Implementation
4.33      The existing Project Unit within the Ministry of Education would be
expanded to supervise the implementation of both the first and second education
projects, to coordinate activities with other agencies and to provide liaison
with the Association. The duties of the Project Unit would also be extended
to provide specifically for training of counterparts by all expatriate person-
nel, assisting in the reorganization of the Building Unit in the Ministry of
Education, training for site supervisors in association with appropriate
technical personnel of the Task Force, technical advice on construction for
basic training programs, design and supervision for the proposed Materials
Production Center and supervision for other project institutions. The Project
Unit Accountant and Procurement Specialist would also serve part-time in the
National Board Secretariat for the basic training scheme. The five principal
officers of the existing Project Unit -- Project Director (Architect),
Engineer, Quantity Surveyor, Procurement Specialist and Accountant -- are
expatriates financed by the first education credit. Additional staff would
be required consisting of an architect, draughtsman, junior engineer and
engineering draughtsman. Since such personnel are not available from within
the country, the additional staff would be expatriates financed from the
proceeds of the credit. The estimated total cost for expatriate Project Unit
staff including the cost of existing staff posts for an additional two years,
is UJS$547,000. In addition, $10,000 is proposed under the Credit for addi-
tional furniture and office equipment; for the Unit.
4.34      The services of expatriate consultant architects would be required
for the design of the proposed project institutions, other than for the Educa-
tional Materials Production Center, the design of which would be undertaken
by the Project Unit. The Project Unit would also be responsible for overall
supervision of construction of the project institutions, with assistance
equivalent to two man/months of consultancy services from the consultant
architects. Consultant architectural firms, acceptable to the Association,
would be appointed on terms and conditions agreeable to the Association. In



- 19 -
view of the commendable progress already made in the selection process, it is
expected that the consultant architects would be appointed and design work
commenced not later than three months after Credit Agreement signing. This is
reflected in the proposed implementation schedule (Annex 16).
4.35      No difficulty is foreseen in obtaining suitable sites for all proj-
ect institutions. The government has provided assurances that title to all
required sites, acceptable to the Association, would be acquired before con-
struction is scheduled to start. The cost of land acquisition would be borne
by the government and is not included in the project cost.
Procurement
4.36      Contracts for civil works, equipment and furniture would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Asso-
ciation's Guidelines for Procurement except as follows:
(i) The construction of District Training Centers, estimated to
cost $0.8 million, which would be located in relatively remote
areas of the country and would be designed as very simple
structures using local materials wherever feasible;
(ii) The construction of village basic training facilities, also
estimated to cost $0.8 million, which would be undertaken by
the local development boards or other community groups, normally
under a self-help scheme acceptable to IDA, in which training
for villagers in construction would be an important component,
with financial assistance from the proposed basic training fund
amounting to about 60% of construction costs;
(iii) Equipment items or categories of items costing less than
US$10,000 which would be included in one miscellaneous
category not exceeding $300,000 for the total project;
(iv) Contracts for furniture or instructional materials costing
less than $50,000 equivalent each.
4.37      Contracts for items (i), (iii) and (iv), and for item (ii) where
suitable self-help arrangements do not apply, would be awarded on the basis
of local procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. There is adequate repre-
sentation of foreign equipment manufacturers to provide competitive prices -
for equipment items which would be procured on the basis of local procurement
procedures. For items procured under ICB: (i) local manufacturers of furni-
ture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the exist-
ing rate of custom duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of c.i.f. price,
whichever is lower; and (ii) qualified domestic civil works contractors would
be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices of competing for-
eign contractors.



- 20 -
4.38      Detailed lists of furniture and equipment would be presented for
the Association's review prior to preparation of bid documents except for
items being procured under local procurement procedures in accordance with
paragraph 4.36. Items would be grouped to the extent possible to form sizable
packages to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents
by the Association prior to award would not be required for civil works
contracts less than $100,000 equivalent or for furniture, equipment or instruc-
tional materials contracts less than $50,000 equivalent.
4.39      The project, other than certain elements of the technical assistance
component to be financed by UNDP, would be implemented over a period of about
four years after the signing of the Credit Agreement (Annex 16). Construction
as well as procurement and installation of equipment, furniture and materials
are expected to be completed about three and one half years after the signing
of the Credit. Final disbursements un.der the Credit would be made and all
accounts closed within the following six months.
Disbursements (Annexes 17 and 18)
4.40      Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (i) 100% of total cost of
consultant architects' services, technical assistance to be financed under the
Credit and salaries of expatriate personnel attached to Project Unit; (ii)
100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported furniture and equipment and 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured furniture (either procured under ICB
or on the basis of local procurement procedures); (iii) 85% of the cost of
imported goods locally procured; and (iv) 63% of cost of civil works. Dis-
bursements to and from the proposed Basic Training Fund would be subject to
the procedures and conditions stated in paras. 4.18 and 4.19. Undisbursed
funds would be reallocated in accordance with a program agreeable to the
Association.
V. SPECIAL FEATURES AND RISKS
5.01      The project would contribute significantly to improving and expanding
the primary teacher and skilled worker training, but its main impact would be
in extending non-formal basic training and literacy programs into the villages
and small towns.
5.02      The major theme of the basic training proposals is the concept of
community self-help, with grassroots involvement in determining local training
needs and in developing programs and providing facilities to meet such needs.
The basic training components of the project, therefore, are designed to en-
courage and respond to local initiatives. Local interest and involvement
would be ensured through the provision for an in-kind local contribution to-
wards investment costs and for self-help arrangements in construction work.
Furthermore, proposals for the basic training fund, which would be new to
IDA-financed education projects, would provide a wide measure of flexibility
in: (i) locating training programs and facilities in response to village ini-
tiatives and capacities: (ii) the type of training which would be financed,



- 21 -
consistent with local needs; and (iii) timing of the demands for financing, by
providing for an advance payment of US$50,000 by the Association to the fund,
which would be replenished on the basis of reimbursement requests for expendi-
tures already made, so that financing for training programs would be available
without the necessity or delay of prior detailed submissions to the Association.
5.03      Logistical support for local efforts would be provided through the
proposed district training centers, under arrangements which would contribute
to the development of a much-needed administrative structure at the district
level. The gradual devolution of functions to the district level, as expertise
and experience of the functioning of the scheme increases, is fundamental to
the proposed administrative arrangements, thereby enhancing local identifica-
tion with project development and execution.
5.04      The basic training proposals are not without risks.  There must be
some uncertainty at this stage as to the extent of community demand for educa-
tion and training, though initial community reaction has been favorable in
areas where development projects are also proposed. The success of the proj-
ect will also be dependent on the quality of trainers, both Yemenis and
expatriate personnel, who may be recruited during the development stage of
the scheme and on a sufficient supply of trainee instructors being available
in the villages. Finally, management and administrative weaknesses generally
in YAR impose added strains on project execution.
5.05      To minimize these risks, the locations for the pilot basic training
centers, while in underdeveloped rural areas, were selected as having poten-
tial for socio-economic development or where development projects were already
proposed. Dependence on expatriate personnel has been reduced to the maximum
extent possible and arrangements for training of Yemeni instructors have been
simplified to take account of the likely level of trainees which would be
available. The additional administrative responsibility proposed at central
level would be minimal and technical assistance is proposed for the develop-
ment of an administrative structure at the district level. While an element
of risk remains that the basic training scheme may not be fully effective in
the short-term, the measures proposed should ensure that real progress is
achieved in an area of critical educational need.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(i)  a National Board and District Council for each District
Training Center, whose composition and functions would be
agreeable to the Association, would be established not
later than 9 months and 15 months, respectively, after
signing of the Credit Agreement (para. 4.15);



- 22 -
(ii)  a Vocational Training Board would be set up under the
Central Planning Organization not later than October 1976
to coordinate the skill training plans and activities of
all ministries dealing with vocational training (para. 4.21);
(iii)  (a) The pay scales and benefits for the posts of trade
instructors in the project vocational training centers would
be comparable with posts requiring similar qualifications in
the competing public sector development organizations; and
(b) the instructors would be recruited in due time to enable
them to complete their pre-service training before taking
up posts at the centers (para. 4.22);
(iv)  (a) The study for the proposed educational materials produc-
tion center would be completed within twelve months of signing
of the Credit Agreement; and (b) proposals for the center's
activities, construction works, furniture and equipment would
be submitted to the Association for review within 20 months of
signing of the Credit Agreement (para. 4.25).
6.02      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.0 million equi-
valent to the Government of the Yemen Arab Republic.



COMPARATIVF EDUCATION  INDICATORS                                                ANNEW I
........................ 7.......
( DBCMOn          3    197S  I
...................
11 GNP.' : I GNP    :1 TOTAL4               OF PUNLTC                                     :,RI. :Av.PRI.                                 IISFC    I          I
I         iCAPITAt DEVOTEQtPURLIC  I EDUCATION                   *LITER-  i PRI. ICOMPLF-  ISTIJ-  ISCH.TEACHIPRnGRESS-2 SEC. iSTU-  l                                 3
i    AT    i TO EnU.i    ENP. i RECI)PRENT    IACY                :ENROLLoTTON            iftENTIliSALARY INtinN RATF  IFNPOLLIDENTSIH?GHERI
sWARKFTi (PUBLielDrvnvEolrip ALLOCATEN                         RATE  tRATIO  tRA"    FORoPER    iNELATInN  IfRn" PRI.IRATIM  sPER    tFwpnLLI
I PDP. RPRICES1 Elp..    t    TO             I       Ttli       .:ft DP   s MET   IPRI.SCM,STFACHI TM GNP/  iTO SEC.    t NFT   ITFACH- R4TI11
YRifOOO) i CUSS)e ONLY)    i    FDU. iPRI. SEC. WI.W ULTS)e (2)   vCVCLffX)tFP                                  i CAPYTA   i    (%i          I (2)   OEO        I (Zi    I
el                                                                                                                               :(I?)   1(131 1(141   t
....................................................................................................................................
AOVANCED
;-u;;;;;            73    7.SC 2,41 OC           4. 3      0.9       470   250   200    09             98         93          26          2.0          99         Si         19        A.nfl
CANADA              12   21.8   4. 4 4 0         7. 7    1 9. 4      30    38    1 9        98         89         99          24          2.0          99         02         1 7       9.,In
GERMANY F.REP.72   61.6   3,390                  4.2    14.2         ...   74** 26          99         91         99          33        ...            49         ol         22      17.nory
JAPAN               7t Iftb.9C ?1320C            4.3    ?0,7         39    38       12      99        990         OOC         2qc        2.n           99C        94n       pnc    204.nO'
NETHERLANDS    72   13.3   7,840                 a.s      Iq.IG    32    4s         19      99         95         95          29          3.0          97         73        20       tl.'o
NEW ZEALAND    71    2.9c 21sboc                 5.2    ..'          39    24    29         99        99          90          26        ...            99         67         iq      24.no
4ORWAY              72    3.9   3,340            7.0    IS,2        -so    23       13      99        99          9A          PO         t.Q          09          Th        14       Il.no
SWEDEN              73    a.IC 4.460C            A.9     16,0        16.  14        t3,    99         90          99          17        ...           90          AS        If       3".nn
U.K.                70    SS.&C 2,600C           C.4      13.8       ...    ...    ...    97          9pt         ...         28        T
U.S.A.              72 2118.8   S's9n,           b.ft    15.4        ...   ?I** 27          99        99          99          2VII)                              9'
EURIPE
GREECE              71    8.4c llaboc                     11.1       54Y   29Y   14Y    82A           9sy         ...         Spy       ...           ?OA         soy       43Y    Il.no
IRELANfJ            7p    3.0   I.SAD           s..I    13qn    43Y   41Y   14t    go                97          94A         39                      OSA         TS        iq        7.nnA
PORTJGAL            ??    9.7        73n         ...    ....         ...    ...    ...    ...         91xy                                                                               A0Y
SPAIN               7 1   34.3c 11100C           ?.OR   15.2A    49Y   2?Y   ISY    94A               9tA                                                                                n n A
AFRTCA
73   14,?C    43nC          O. o A               13.  3?       16,    PSA         6?          RO,        43          A            37          1 SY      20,       3.90
IOTSWANA            7?    0.6        lbo                                                    ...       boDy        ...         3sny      ...           ...          Ftny    tADY    n.lov
9URtiNOT            72    3.6         6n         ...                                                  27X8Y                   344Y                                    fl y   l[AY    11 I ""Y
CA14EROMN           70    6.0C    ?0DC           I.n    2,01;               ;;Y                       74.                     stny                                 Ry          CY    (I:.OY
C.A.R.              70    I.bc    16mc           A.nN   PO.O         S6     to      ...               64cy        25          65cy    ...              18          SCY    27my    n.n7v
CMAD                70    3.11C        soc       4.3    14.3         77    23        A        7       29xny       ...         6bRy      ...           ...          ?YRY   36          O.StRy
C014GO (M)          73    1.3C    ',o n C       O' . Ft    26.4     45FIY 3%BY ISRY   SO?    138k                ...        63                                   p9R       4;y      11:44ry
IA-10MEY            73    2.9c    finc           9.3    32.0         47    23    in         it        32XFI       ?OR        S"Ft                                  7        3qfl      o "4ry
E7141npfA           73   25.9c         Rn        3.1    20,0         42    29       to       .7        17C        4?          sn         3            63           ;1       30        n.;In
GABON               73    (.St    Aiktpc         r.0    2-n.6        PS       a     ti      -        ISOM         M           46C        5            ISA         pnc       21C       i.nnry
GHANA               71    9.1c    3onc           41.7    PM.4oR   30f)  150   P30           ...       shxcy    bp             3(ICY    ...            14          lty       16cy    (1.744Y
iviRy cnAST    72    S.4             40         h.1    24.7         27my 338Y 13Y           9A       SP          S7A        46                                   in        2r,
T3   12.1c    ITPC          6.4    ;'7.0                                40       losx                    4n
EVYA                                                                63    11    tt                               ...                                              2        21        I n3 y
LESCITHM            73    0.QC         9mc       4.7    ?2.0         asc   lsc   24C        40,       65          ...        45                                   ;'F1      ?;)       n q'i
LIIERIA                    t.bC    333C          2.7    13.q         75     13    22        ...                   ...        39 ?a  So                             0        2n        I InAy
11AAWT             ?a    4.7,    innr          3.1    ?D,9          ...    ...    ...    25          S6X         ha         sn          7.0          iAn          ON       ?n        A.pbry
4ALI                74    S.IC        7AC        4.&N   32.3         36A   S29   12P        in        18          2?         40         lm.(          17           4        17        A.thky
MAJRITANTA          in    1.2C    I'mc          4.5    ;pI.O         ...    ...    ...    In          tsx         ...        2p          ...          ...          3        24
3 0 6               I I . 7 r)    71    to     4      An         86         go          31                                  31        3.,
4AJRITIUq           72    n.9                   1.7                                                                                                                                   I  17CY
m(3Rnccn            74   15.-Ic    ;17nc         11.nr   16.5        44    47        9      26?       54X         21         37                                   13v       PI        -.n
41GERIA             71   69.5c       is(ic      'k.PN   ...          40A   ?4A   ?nA        ...       39xcy    ...           3ilcy       ...          ...          4        ?RCY    P.17ry
RWANDA              71    3.7C        SANC    3.PC   "A.0n           ...    ...    ...    23          S?          ...        51          ...          ...          2        11        n.;,3ry
SENEGAL             71    4.DC    ?5(C           4.Om   ;?2.SnR   39A   42A    SA    In               3P'x        ...        46                                                        :I,r,
SIERRA LEONE   73    2.1c    19nC               1.4    ;,3.4         31    36    30         IS?       34X         4S         32                                   ""'Y'               , r3RV
SOMALIA             73    2.9C         Rnc       ...       7.0      -57     16    13         s        t3          91         3s        1.,.n          4s           3        IR        I.n
SUDAN               72   16's        12f         u..;    13.2        Di    ag    28         is        38          7-5        45          4.41         PS          11        26        1.>3y
SWAZILANO           72    94c    i1bo           a.3A   19.7         37    26       16      21%       66          ?;'        3m          7.(          ...         lbny    pri         1.0
TA'4ZANIA           74   13.2C    linc           S.IN   17,0         36     ...   I?        63        449         ...        49          ...           7           2        ?IC       n.i
TU4131A             73    5.3c    31Inc         6.3    P3.4          37    43    18         Ss        72          Fil        41          6.0          31          t4       21
UGANDA              70   In.4c    IS(C           S.7N   17.6CR   900   220   ?S9            PSA       4019ey      ...        36          ...          14A          awry   21          0..;Sqy
UPPER VOLTA    72    s.b               64        4.0    ;- 3. 9      bs    Ifl       6       s        In          ...        US         I sk . 0      p 0          2        23        n . n I a Y
ZATRE               73   19.1c       tonc        S.?N   21.3r        54C   17C   ?9C        Is        63          38         44A         6.0          43           A        24        n.QbFlY
ZAMSTA              73    4.5c    3F10C          r.6    lb.-S        4a    ?7       to      43        osw         ...        so          ...          ?v          isy       ?m        (.a4hy
CENTRAL AMERTCA A40 T41 CARIBBEAN
F------- ........................                                                                                                                          I    p 2r. y    2 5      I   I I r Y
COSTA PICA          71    1.8c    63nc           5.2    22,7         57    29    12         no        Abcy        6-3        29           3.0         %A
004INICAN REP.72    o.2              48o         2.5      IS.SnQ   42    ?a    22           51        so          17         sa           Lon         63          13        P4        7.nn
EL SALVADOR    75    3.7C    340C                3.6    ?3.A         61,      s    22       SAY    TIXCY    ...             39cy                                 1hycy   21cy    a ISBY
GUATEMiLA           73    5.6c    420C           1.9      16.0       Ss    23    14         47        64          26         35                                    A       p;         4:o9y
HATTI               72    4.4        13n         0.0       6.6m    fit    It         6      ang       22          25?        45           r.ft        so           3       21         l.A0v
HONDURAS            72    2.7        120         3.9    ?6'sn    64         13    la        92        all         IPI        37                       75          lqy       14        q.nn
JAMAICA             70                           6 -;Y   19 7c    33Y   2?Y    7Y    016             In6XCy    ...           S2                                                         ""Y
MEXICO              7n   '1:'IC4   ;"0'C                                            12      76        71         'JI         46
c      2 6       9 3       14    24
NICARACUA           74     ?.IC    470C          ?.7     14,2        ...    ...    ...    5 7          Sax        ...        IRCY                                P3        3?CV    7.n
TRYNTDAD 9 T. 71    I.0C    q4OC                 S.1    18.9         53    27    12         90        99X         ST         39           U.n         is         49        p-q       p.qhhy
SOUTH AMFRTCA
.............
BR4ZIL              74   99,2C    930C           4.3     I2'OC    42    20           37    79         a ft x      ...        ??CY         ...         ...        tAR       ISCY    6.nop
CHILE               TO   10.0        A0nC        4.6y   10.6y    340Y I-JOY OOGY   ...    111"Y    ...                       37gy                                481111Y
COLOMBIA            TO   23.9C-   400C           4.0    10.9         35     16    20        73        67          20         36                                  I,
ECUADOR             T2    b.5        360         3.7    ?1'7C    4SQY 4?0Y IOGY   69                  7?          ...        36                                            ;4         4:97qy
GUYANA              74    0.7Cj   400C           S.RN   14.7q    07    35          14       83A       92X         39         33                                              ii       I nn
PARAGUAY            14    1   1 1   1 1 ll, C   I m      17,9       S7     13      28      At        as         .26         29                       65         tsx       16         4.mO
'.:4               4.5    2a,                                 72        an          3A         39py                     70         30        m y    12.no
PERU                          Ic    5    c                    in    so    22    is                                                        130
VENEZUELA           73   II.IC,  t240C           4.6    I9.q         300   280   35n    ??A           el          ...        33           ?.4         ...        33        ...    12.43cy



TOMPARATIVE FDUCATION  IHDICAT'3421  2fC,-                              ANNEX I  0006  7
(DZCIMZSR 3    9751
1  I  3        2                           2 ~ ~ ~ ~                ~    ~ ~~          ~      ~     ~     ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 2I U  3 2 2
GNPI  * I GNP   it TOT4-aX   Or PUBLIC                                       *    PRI. IAY.PPI.   I           I        iSEC   2         I
I        ICAPITAi DEVnTEQ.PUBU~ '      ' Url'UCATIT)N    ILITER- AFRI., ICOMPLE- 257U. s3TH.TEACH:PRI1GPESS-s SEC, ISTU- 2                         2
I       I  AT I TO EDU.u   E4P. I RECURRENT    gACY                ,EHRDLLITION         IDENTOSBALAEY tINTON RATE  IENRnLLIDENTSIMIGI.EQ2
I       I*AARETI (PU)BLIC,DEvn'ED'!TP  ALLOCAYEOI  RATE  aBATIID IRATE FOqiPER   gRELATinN iFRoM FRI.2RATIn IPFR   LENROLL!
POP. *  PRICES:  E4P..  2  TO    I           TnOt      I(l OF .1 NET   IPRI.SCH,ITEACHI TO GNP/ ITO SEC.   I NFT   iTEAfH- RATIO2
YAtR, oRI  t ([iS%a  ONLY)   IFETU.   '~7  SEC. HI.eADULTI)I  (II   ,cCOCLr3)ER                     r APITA   I  f%)       I(I)IaEP    I (t)
I       I                                                  I I  I  I                               I       I
I (II$ ?1        227   13 )      (4)           (5             1    37)   a  (A)    ;9)                np   (1(  111      :?       (3 T!1(Iu
51A AND OCEANIA
A4GLADESH        73   72.5C    7TOC       I.?    20,2........    23                      564         . ..  OA.                      *.        13R      2P
HINAITAIWAN) 73   t5.t1'   22301          1.      14,0      OR    41    22      B        S          21        A         4,0        R          %       P        N
NDIO,            71 563.5,   10c         2.6VY..           .... .        ..    29       794        .*        13 ... 4..AOAR                           2OAY    21OOAY
RDONWESIA       7 3 23.01    1 201       l.A    3,        63b   23    4      62       6%         ARD       32        5;22       I?         2        to,      Pr0
RAN             703  29.RC    4501        T* 3     2.6     JOB   IR      129    50     77         74k       37         5*,R1    AO/         24       3?"      u.xro .
RAG              70a I  . I     7nCf:    6.7   I16 .SDR.......                 26       61C9       . ..      22          ..         ..       PGYCY   26        6.7Ary
ORDAN            TO.   2.41    ?7m6       7.0      .8.      52    15    21      59       924        76        la         5.00                 so501    2?       4.00n
OBEA            73 3i2.31    honc         2.9    1 9 3      64    26      S     92       9 7       9 0        5 3        3.00       7 1       %1      39       6,00
E8*0N2N          72'   2.9      TOY       3.5    18,0       S9    uo 0    ,1    60        06        69        I          2.00       63        26''f     5      73.00n
ALAYSIA         72    .04    430         6.A    22,7D1...90                                         .. ...  ...                               334     26
MAN              7?    0,6'    530        7.3      3.0      95 -,   .           29       24X        9         3 3        7.06o       .         0.40 v
AXISTAN         TS  66.71    13AC         1 .6     6,2      45    25    l B     21       471       S n           4       2.0 0      ..         70      I A      A
HTLIPPTNEB    7 4  39 . 0       7?Y12c    2. 5    14. 9     '3I   15    1 2     Bt      1040         .        30         15         ...       4i60v    ...    21,00
1MGA,PORS       7 2    2.1I   700       3t.IN  I6. 2     44    31     5     7SA    074         27..                            95        47       74       4)A30'S
MAILAND         7 3   55.5      7 201 C   3 ftN   tB.?      55     9    IS*    ep        BYE       31         32        3TAof   S'           210      ?4      7,.00
09XEV           7?  3 7 .0      3 70(     . . .   13,00)9...0....4..                        1Sr    ...       lRDy        .                   2240y   ;771)y    R.319)
EMEN            7 3    6.0      100n      0.5      4 ,0     45P  2RIP   ?,5P    I0       4         I A       3 6        90         7          20      9 Q     fl.03R
EMENi P.D.R.  7 ?    I .3"      I0(       P ITTA3   2 .6   7 9    : 2           p      701       II         ,   3;0.00          90;        20      2' n     0)296
U4mARY FOR DEVELOPING 104ITR(ES:
N dARER  OF CnIN'rRTE3I                    S7      67       61    59   9,9      62       731       4          7 2          R       42         7 3      6'9       0 7
SANGER                                 (7 * -       3 .48-   (?%- 10-   4-    (5-     rio-       7 -     2219-       (A         7 -      2.1u-    e9-      (.02-
9,.0     3 2 . )  96 1 52)   4 0      Re       19442if    99)      66  )       25. 0)    09)       75.0)   43)       23. 0)
2JARTILES:UPPE4  2                       0.7    71.0      57    36    20       6R       91        76        45           7        l6        72.      26,      0.79
MEDIAN!                     I.     I 0 . 2  50    27    5       50s      71        56        39           a        63        I 0      21       ?.. 0
LOWlER I                    3.m    1 1. 0    42 2,I7    I I       20       49        295       33           3        ;-7A%           9  I           . 0,93
Y ROLSI r. .. DA TtI I'~NAVAII TLAR 'LFA               O 9 REEOR                MuCIIRRENT PRICES                            SOURPCFSt
-    AGPJ0D    410  NFGLIG)BLF 9el1I7I                             4SGDP
O  DIIE(T)ONA4LE                      r12972                         PUTNCLIIOTNG FOREIGN AID                    77tIJuNSI AN,1  7 WnPLO RAN-
T NCLU1DES PA9T.TIAE,STunENT9 T*1973                               OlNTRTAL G3VT  OnNLY                                              AT71Al
COMYINFD A274 PRTMARY              F. 97A                         RARrNISTRY  OF EDCAIO fmIE) OnLY                        0 TO I0 1PR  .9)fN
SUMIIE AND STATE  GOv~T. ObNLY                                    A,n/noR  1mFSCr
TAEF2CLIIOTNG CENTRAL COY'.                                       STATTSTIrAI
JMPPIJBL1C ONLY                                                   YEA* 94110K
Vs Tf,IJILUD NG PRIVATE FOP NOITTI'RF
0m?1j`LIIG)NG; nlVERAGED STUDENTS
Ytd22jESCO SOURCES
ONP%RATTVE EOUCATTOO 3474 ARE USEFUL TN THE EVALUATION nF7 VARTIUS EDUCrATION SYSTENS AND ANALYSTIS OF RFLATTAF NI'AGFS OF EDOICATTONAL
EVELOPmENT BETWEEN VA9)0213; COUNT9TES. HOAEYER)JN THE Pasts or THE 'REPRENT OATA,CBOSS.NATIOnAL Cn2mPARI3OnN 56nIJ[T) HE APPROACHED WITH
REAkT CAUTION. DATA PR4BFNTED  IN THE ABOVE TARLE HAVE BEEN COLLEIFr.F  LARGELY BY THE RIANA  MISSIONs FROM GOOFA2.FNT SnilRCEBa  THE
EHAINDER ARE STAFF ES r.ATES OR DATA FROnM UNC-0>. EFFORTS HAVE RET'v MADE TEL STANO4RMTTF TFT?NITTTONs ANID T0."I I TMfTO, Tnl CoFrO THE
CCURACY Of THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ATE STILL I-PERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS A2*0 THE RANA IS wORKING TO IMPROvE THEM
ROGRESSIVELY OIN THE 306*3)0W O)F ITS OPERATIONAL wn9K. IN TOE L'SE or: THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING IPlAt IFTCATIOnkf HIJnLIt RE QnPNF TN
2NDt 
(I IEDUCATTIIN"  AS DEFINEDl TN THE TARLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION 4120 TRAINING. FORMAL AND wnkNFOV"AIlj
(23"PRTMAiRY EDIICATIIO2 REFERS TO EDUjCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL A62) SqEcnNDARYTM EDUCATIOIN REFERS TO AL-L EDUiCATION AT THE SFrONDARY
LEVEL RFEOAQMLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL. AGRICULTLI'ALi p
(3)'LITFRAC2 RATES"IcnL.61 ARE OFTEN ORTAINEO FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANTCouJNTRIES TAFT ARE ONLY A-1ROOTNATTONS MN') T ITS1
DOURTEUL THAT ANY UJNIFnRm DEFTNTTTnN OF 'LITERATE" HAS SIEEN YOnLLOMEn CnNSISTENTLYt
TO)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN ED0CATTO)N"1rCOLR.T,4 AND S) REFER TO AL-L CAPITAL AND RECUPRENY EOAPFADITTIRF3 nFvO?rn TO FOLICATTON FMY
PUBLIC AND DUASD.P,R4LIC AGENCIES:
(Si-ENROLLMENT RATIOs" rC0L8 7. 12 AND t97 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIFRI F CHILDREN FNROLLET FULl -TI"E
IN THE APPRO)PRIATE SCHOOIL, PURLIC AND PRIVATE 5Y LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A AIDE mARGIN OF ERORn IN, THE DFVF nPINI)
COUNTRIES OwTNG TO VARIATION TN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I,E. AGE.SPECIAITC POPULATTON ANn F4OnLLMENTSl. ENRnLLOFNT FIGURESI
FREQUENTLY  ARE HIGHER  THAN THE NUMBER OFv STU-DENTS ACTUALLY Tm  SCHoOL. nvEBAGED ST(U3ENIB  WHMSF TNCLIISION IS INITCATFIn   MY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
The Education and Training System
Administration
1.        Public education is administered through the central offices of the
Ministry of Education in Sana'a, which is represented by regional offices and
directors in each of the ten governorates. At both national and regional
levels, administration is inadequate due to lack of qualified personnel,
unsuitable accommodation and poorly defined and ineffective management systems
and procedures. Planning and coordination at national and regional levels are
still at a very preliminary stage. About 20% of the Ministry staff have
university degrees of which only two or three are in disciplines related to
education. The majority of the Ministry's staff lack even secondary school
qualifications. About 50 bilateral experts advise various directorates of
the Ministry but have achieved few tangible results due to the lack of an
overall strategy and coordination. The UNDP/Unesco Task Force, established
under the first education project, is adivsing the government on the re-
organizing of the Ministry of Education and on developing cohesive policies
at all educational levels.
Curriculum Development
2.        The curriculum development branch within the Ministry of Education
is responsible for the review, development and promulgation of curricula at
all levels below the University. Five expatriate experts augment an equal
number of Yemeni staff but there is no plan for systematic curriculum reform
or coordinated in-service training. Following the revision of the primary
curricula in 1972, only spasmodic attempts have been made to rewrite syllabi
and textbooks in some subjects. The curriculum at this level is theoretical
and fragmented in too many subject divisions with insufficient time devoted
to developing skills of literacy and numeracy. The extreme shortage of
trained teachers and the almost complete absence of teaching materials are
compounded by the use of textbooks written for countries and cultures foreign
to Yemen. At the secondary level English is introduced in a curriculum
composed predominantly of arts subjects. In the final two years of the upper
cycle, two streams provide students with a choice between literature and
science. However, even in the latter, arts subjects predominate. About 80%
of students select the science stream. Laboratories and science equipment
are inadequate and students have little opportunity to perform experiments.
While vocational subjects are listed in the curricula of both cycles, indus-
trial arts are taught only in the three Russian-built schools (as pre-vocational
subjects) and the Chinese-assisted technical school. Girls' schools provide
an effective program of Home Science and Nutrition and equipment is being
obtained steadily. The commercial sections of three secondary schools offer
a varied curriculum which could well be duplicated in other schools as teachers
and equipment become available.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        The Task Force is planning t:o review the process of curriculum
deve:Lopment. Greater teacher involverient in planning curricula, revising
syllabi and rewriting textbooks emphasizing Yemeni content is envisaged at
all 'Levels. Coordination of these tasks with a review of the examination
system and the more adequate provision of teaching materials and scientific
equipment are urgent priorities facing the government.
Primary Education
4.        The normal structure of prirmary education is six years for the 6 to
11 year olds. The equivalent of about: 15% of the age group are in primary
education, of which a rough estimate suggests that about 70% are overaged.
From 1969 to 1972, enrollments in primiary schools increased by an average of
32% annually; while the rate of increase declined in 1973/74, total enrollments
of 179,000 in public schools in that year were 20% higher than in 1972/73.
Girls represented 12% of total enrollments. A further 2,600 boys were enrolled
in religious schools.
5.        The number of public primary schools increased from 700 in 1969/70
to 1,540 in 1973/74. There is considerable uneveness in quality of school
buildlings ranging from new buildings provided through bilateral aid and simple
buildings provided under local self-help schemes to rudimentary shelters.
Because of limited accommodation available and the shortage of teachers, only
about 13% of the schools offer the full range of grades and 60% of the schools
have only three grades or less.
6.        Of about 4,900 public primary school teachers, only about 2,000 were
on permanent appointment and of these about 140 were women. While statistics
are not available on the qualificatiorns of teachers in this category, Ministry
officials estimate that almost all are unqualified. Of the remainder who are
employed on contract, about 1,100 were considered qualified, 800 had obtained
a primary certificate, 750 Yemenis had not completed primary school and about
250 teachers were expatriates whose qualifications were not known. Pupil:
teacher ratios average 36:1. This figure, however, is misleading, because of
imbalances between governorates and between urban and rural areas.
7.        A major priority of the government is to expand enrollments of boys
and girls rapidly in primary education. In 1973/74, the equivalent of about
30% of 6 year olds entered primary education, of which about 12% were girls.
This percentage is expected to increase to about 65% of 6 year olds by 1984
of which it is anticipated that about 30% would be girls. Participation in
primary education is expected to increase from the equivalent of about 15% of
the age-group in 1973/74 to about 47% in 1984/85 (Annex 4) as a result of the
increased intake and a progressive improvement to 90% in promotion rates in
the first three grades.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Secondary Level Education
8.        At the post-primary level, education is divided into:  (i) a three
year lower secondary cycle offering both general and teacher training courses;
(ii) a three year upper secondary cycle with (a) general courses with science
or arts options in grades 11 and 12, commercial options in three schools and
industrial arts course options in three schools and (b) teacher training,
normally in the same premises with similar curricula to the general courses;
and (iii) a five year technical school program in one school to train middle-
level technicians.
9.        In 1973/74, second level education was provided for 14,500 students,
representing 2% of the age group. Although the number of girls has doubled
since 1971/72, they still comprise only 9% of the total enrollments. At the
lower secondary level about 10,400 students were enrolled and of these, about
880 were stated to be in teacher training (of whom only about 30 were boys).
At the upper secondary level, enrollments in 1973/74 were about 4,000, of
whom about 3,100 (only four girls) were in general courses, about 470 boys
in technical (300) or commercial (170) courses and about 470 in teacher train-
ing, of whom about 60% were girls (Annex 5).
10.       Of about 750 teachers in secondary schools in 1973/74, 1% were women.
All teachers, except for teachers of religion, were expatriates of whom 83%
were Egyptians. At the lower secondary level there were about 450 teachers
resulting in a pupil-teacher ratio of 23:1. The ratio at the upper secondary
level was only 12:1, with about 320 teachers. A major difficulty is the
relatively short time that expatriate teachers actually reside in the country
which may curtail the school year to seven months. Efforts are being made to
reduce the vacation period of expatriate teachers to 30 days so that they may
participate in in-service training as well as to lengthen the school year.
Technical and Vocational Education
11.       Technical education continues to be offered only at the five-year
post-primary technical school in Sana's (supported by the Republic of China)
which enrolled 292 boys in 1973/74. This number increased to 328 in 1974/75 --
all of whom were boarders. Entry is selective following at least a 60% pass
in the primary certificate. Annual admission is 90 and the capacity of the
school is 450. About 30 students will graduate for the first time in 1975
and all have assured employment. Nearly 30 students are completing their
fifth year of training in China, where they will continue with a 4-year univer-
sity course before returning to Sana'a as instructors for the school. At
present there are 39 Chinese instructors and translators teaching technical
subjects and 11 Yemeni teachers of general subjects. Training is provided
mainly in construction (buildings and roads) and maintenance of heavy equip-
ment (automotive and electrical). Practical work and design occupy 30-40%
of the curriculum in the third and fourth years and 70-80% in the final year
when students participate also in practical work projects. The question of
establishing a second technical school on similar lines, in lieu of one of the
multilateral schools under the first education project, is under consideration
by the government.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.       Vocational training under the Ministry of Education will be commenced
with the establishment of two vocational training centers under the first
education project. The centers will have an annual intake of 288 primary
school certificate holders into a two-year full-time program offering six
trade specializations. In addition the centers will offer part-time courses
to upgrade skills of workers already employed in industry and services. A
further two centers are included under the proposed second project.
13.       Due to shortages of skilled manpower, some agencies initiated their
own skill training schemes. Three vocational training programs are conducted
under the Ministry of Public Works, two of which are UNDP-assisted for trade
instruction in repair and maintenance of road-building equipment and motor
mechanics and the third, USAID-assisted, for training skilled and semi-skilled
workers for water supply projects. The National Electricity Corporation has
a training center for electricians and nearly 85 trainees have been inducted
during 1975 for occupation skill training. The Swedish Technical Assistance
Mission also runs a trade course for electricians, while the British Yemeni
Agricultural Center conducts some training of operators of power pumps and
agricultural machinery. Other training institutions being planned are: a
Fisheries/Development Training Center, under the Ministry of Agriculture,
which will train fishermen in boat building, gear technology and engine
operation and maintenance; and a Workers Cultural Center to be establishel
with Algerian assistance under the Ministry of Labor and Social Services,
which would include instruction of unskilled labor in technical occupations
and training in some trade specializations.
Agricualtural Education
14.       Since 1967, there has been no formal agricultural education in Yemen.
Excepit for about 100 technicians trained through fellowships abroad, the govern-
ment has been relying on expatriate experts provided by various bilateral and
international organizations. Under the first education credit a secondary
agricultural school will be constructedl at Ibb and a second school has been
proposed by the government for the Tihmama region in lieu of a multilateral
secondary school under the project. AEter 1980, the two schools would train
about 150 technicians per year which would meet the country's manpower needs
at thLs level.
15.       There was no agricultural extension service in the country before
1974. The first Extension Service was established in Ibb and Taiz Governorates
under an UNDP/FAO project, which emplors at present 15 extension agents at 15
District "ixtension Centers. Under the same project an Extension Training
Center was established in Taiz. The center is offering a one-year post-
preparatory course to train 30 extension agents in 1975. About 60 extension
agents would be trained for the IDA Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
after 1976 until the Ibb agricultural school starts turning out graduates.
Under the Tihama Agricultural Development Project an extension agent's train-
ing course of 7 months duration (plus t:wo months field training) is being
carried out with an enrollment of 23. After completion of the course, the
trainees will be appointed to 10 extension offices, 2-3 to each office, as
extension agents for the project area. The Agricultural Services Project



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(UNDP/FAO) which aims to strengthen the organization of the Ministry of Agri-
culture in the Governorate of Hodeida, is also training extention agents -
one month pre-service, one month on-the-job training - to be stationed at the
five extension centers.
Primary Teacher Training
16.       There were seven primary teacher institutes in 1974/75; three for
boys and four for girls, of which only three -- two boys' institutes and one
girls' -- were not housed in secondary schools. Courses extended from three
to six years following the primary certificate. Enrollments in each class
were small and some institutes had no students in many courses: total numbers
of teacher trainees were stated to be about 340 boys and 440 girls. This
contrasts with enrollments for the previous year of 224 and 1,125, respectively,
but at that time all girls in secondary education were treated as teacher
trainees.
17.       The staff of the teacher training institutes are almost exclusively
expatriates. Most have not previously been engaged in teacher training: only
24 out of 140 are qualified. Full-time staff only teach from 14 to 24 periods
out of a possible 36 per week and student-teacher ratios are very low, varyiug
between 6:1 and 10:1. Provision for training in teaching is confined to
only one subject (psychology).
18.       Dropout rates in teacher training institutes are high due to the low
level of training, dissatisfaction with late disbursement of student stipends
and with teacher salaries and unsatisfactory arrangements for student boarding.
Only 108 trainees graduated in 1974/75 -- 52 boys and 23 girls at upper
secondary level and about 20 girls at lower secondary level.
19.       The Task Force is currently advising the government in the prepara-
tion of comprehensive plans for the revision of primary teacher training.
Teachers' salaries have been increased by up to 120%, stipend payments are now
being regulated, the training programs have been separated from the general
courses at both levels and firmer criteria are being established for the
selection of teacher trainers. With the completion of five new regional
institutes for boys in 1975/76, regional training at post-primary level will
be emphasized. A further three institutes for boys are being provided under
the first education project and two institutes for girls are included under
the proposed second project while arrangements are also being made to provide
afternoon classes for girls in regional training centers for boys. Committees
have been established to study the needs of teacher training throughout the
country and to prepare much needed new curricula to emphasize pedagogy rather
than general content. Two-year emergency courses of training, at post-lower
secondary level in the three main cities and post-primary level elsewhere,
are being introduced from 1975/76. In future, all trainees will be contracted
to teach for five years after graduation and after two of these years will be
granted a certificate equivalent to the lower secondary or upper secondary
certificate as appropriate.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
20.       In spite of the estimated 803% of teachers who are unqualified at
the primary level, only spasmodic and isolated courses have been given to
provide any upgrading. Special short courses (up to six months) in specific
content in a few subjects, notably mathematics, have been conducted for
limited numbers of teachers. With so few teachers available, the government
finds it difficult to release teachers for such upgrading; however, the low
level of general education of most teachers makes full-time upgrading programs
an urgent need. Boarding will be available for teachers attending upgrading
programs in the teacher training institutes included in the first and proposed
second IDA education projects.
Secondary Teacher Training
21.       The training of secondary teachers will be undertaken in the Second-
ary School Teacher Training College at: the University of Sana'a to be financed
by the first education credit. No distinction will be made between lower and
upper secondary teacher training. A two-year College of Education is being
established under which pedagogical courses and weekly practical teaching
will be given concurrently with the final two years of studies in the Colleges
of Arts, Science and Conmmerce. The first year of such training will be
provided in 1975/76 and an output of about 150 secondary teachers is expected
in Jtne, 1977. Staff for such pedagogical training are currently being
recrLited overseas. Students will receive a stipend of 250YR per month during
their training and upon graduation will be contracted to teach in government
secondary level schools for five years.
University Education
22.       The University of Sana'a was established in 1970/71 with an initial
enrollment of 61 students and 15 staff in the Colleges of law, Science and Arts.
A College of Commerce commenced in 1973/74; the total enrollments in that year
reached nearly 1,000 (238 in Commerce, 186 in Law, 103 in Science and 469 in
Arts), of whom 60% attended on a full-time basis. Of the teaching staff of
58 in the University in 1973/74, 16 were Yemeni. Although enrollments over-
all increased to 1,600 students in 1974/75, enrollment in science did not
increase and remained the lowest of any faculty. The lack of practical train-
ing iLn the use of scientific equipment at the secondary level is an obvious
handicap to those wishing to pursue a scientific career.  It is anticipated
that total enrollment at the University will increase to about 3,500 by 1985
but detailed planning for the development of the University is still at a
very early stage and largely dependent on the State of Kuwait, which has
financed all university development and most recurrent expenses.
23.       The development of a modern .infrastructure in Yemen is dependent
upon the quality of its trained personnel. To date, bilateral and multi-
lateral funds have provieed fellowships on an extensive scale to advance that
training. However, it is estimated that about 50% of those trained in Science
and technology have not returned to Yemien to contribute their skills in these



ANNEX 2
Page 7
key areas of development. In 1973/74, over 750 students held post-secondary
scholarships in Arabic countries and a further 600 were training in other
countries. With the inauguration of relevant courses at the University of
Sana'a, the number of overseas scholarships may be reduced and reserved for
graduate or specialized studies.
Adult Literacy
24.       A Supreme Literacy Organization, attached to the Ministry of Educa-
tion, was established in 1970, to promote and plan literacy campaigns to reduce
the estimated 90% of adult illiteracy in the country. Three regional directors
of literacy have been appointed in Taiz, Ibb and Hodeida but the appointment
of literacy officers in every town, as required by law, has not been possible
because of lack of trained personnel. Three-week training courses sponsored
by Unesco prepared about 50 men and women in methods of teaching literacy
during 1974. Instructors are paid by contract on a nine-month basis for
teaching 18 hours a week; many instructors who have no special training in
literacy methods are also teachers in primary or secondary schools. Only
students who are 15 years of age or older are accepted in training programs.
"Literacy" programs in Yemen differ from those in other countries in that
they cover the whole range of subjects throughout the duration of the primary
level. Thus, while a literacy certificate is awarded at the completion of
each grade level, the total course normally extends over six years and drop-
out rates are very high. About 4,100 people were enrolled in all phases of
the program in some 88 centers during 1974/75.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                       SECOND LEVEL EDUCATION                                HIGHER EDUCATION
LOWER ("PREPARATORY")       UPPER ("SECONDARY")
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
EMERGENCY PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
PROF ESSIONAL
SECOND LEVEL
COMMERCIAL                                          TEACHER TRAINING
4        5''3', -4  6
ACADEMIC(1)                  COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCE  AND EDUCATION
4                ;L3   -, 4_
PREPARATORY            MULTILATERALI2)                FACULTY OF MODERN AND ISLAMIC L-AW
YOUNG FARMER TRAINING          AGRICULTURAL                    FACULTY OF USINESS AND COMMERCE
VOCATIONAL TRAINING        ANIMAL HEALTH ASSISTANTS
"   : REGULAR     ...
* ||g,~g  COURSE               P
TECHNICAL SCHOOL
0 FINAL EXAMINATIONS
AG E I       I         I        I        I        I             I        I                 I l      l                     I l                          I
6        7        8        9        10       11            12       13       14       15       16       17            18       19       20        21
(1) Grade 5and 6 are divided into arts and science sections
(2) Includes arts science, techeical, agricultural, commercial, office practice streams.                                                                                                    fl 
rtI
IDA 1st & 2nd    *  CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPMENT & FURNITURE
PROJECT
INSTITUTIONS1-
T  _ EQUIPMENT ONLY                                                                                                              World Bank-7355(2R)



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1973-74
<      -
GA                         i BOY- GIL
l- _j       5-          _-j 0 
16~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                   ~      ~      ~~~~     ~     ~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 80o  < 01o  0.0 <l%,
HIGHER                                                                                                          UPPER      HECODRY
14                                                                     850           102                   0.5%           ~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~0.2%  107
SECON DARY 
12                                                                                                                 879X74             2t                %        t !  < 1         WtUJI
LOWER                                                                                                            1684    141                      +       |      +       |      + H
HLGHER
SECONDARY                                                                                                          LOWER SECONDARY                            7.3%           1.8%           8%
12                                                                                                                8                               t                             t21
8                                                                                                             2962    340                       5.3%           2%             9%
7                                                                                                           4044  453                                    '
PRIMARY                                                                                                                PRIMARY
5                                                                                                   9095                   30
4                                                                                                                           182402 9921Y6
3                                                                               _          3416 3416                                               922%151%119%
2  ~ ~        ~       ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~3184904
2            ~              ~             ~~62    6             1217                                                                             .74.l 
70,000                       50,000                        30,000                        10,000            0           10,000
Note: In addition to the primary and secondary enrollment given above, there were 2646 and
235 respectively enrolled in non-official schools about which no grade-to-grade information
was available at the time of the appraisal mission.
World Bank-15174
Including enrollments in primary teacher training and commercial and technical schools.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
First Education Project
Progress Summary
1.        The project for which an IDA credit of US$11.0 million equivalent
was approved in June 1973 consists of: (a) constructing and equipping of:
(1) one secondary and three primary teacher training institutes; (ii) three
upper secondary schools, two vocational and one agricultural training center,
and (iii) three non-formal basic training centers; (b) equipping of three
primary teacher training institutes, three upper and three lower secondary-
schools; and (c) furnishing and equipping the Project Unit and provision of
technical assistance for project implementation. Extensive specialist serv-
ices are also provided from bilateral sources. A key feature is the estab-
lishment of a UNDP/Unesco Task Force to advise the government on the restruc-
turing of the Ministry of Education and in developing a long-term strategy
at all educational levels.
2.        The credit became effective on April 10, 1974, following a three-
month postponement mainly because of delay in preparing and agreeing terms
of reference and a plan of operation of the Task Force (which was a condition
of effectiveness). Difficulties were subsequently experienced in recruiting
high-quality staff for the Task Force with consequential initial delay in
advancing the educational objectives of the project. The position has,
however, improved significantly: oF the 24 posts on the Task Force, nine
have been filled, including most of the key positions, and the arrival on
post of a further seven experts, whose candidatures have been approved, is
expected shortly. Special measures are being taken to overcome problems
which have been experienced in recruiting local counterparts to the Task
Force and Project Unit Staff, so as to achieve the training objectives of
the project.
3.        The current delay of aboul: eight months in project implementation
is expected to be reduced significantly as a result of measures being taken
to expedite completion of designs and educational programs. In summary the
status of the major elements of the project is as follows:
(i) Proposals for a basic training scheme, prepared by the Task
Force, have been agreed by the government and by IDA, and the
design of the three basic training centers in accordance with
the scheme is proceeding;
(ii) A study required under the credit agreement "of the need for
expanding the upper secondary school system and the alternative
means of meeting such need" is being undertaken by the Task
Force and is expected to be completed by March, 1976.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Agreement by the Association on measures for expanding
upper secondary level education is a condition of disburse-
ment for two of the upper secondary schools, in substitution
for which the government has proposed a technical school
and an agricultural secondary school.  The government's
proposal will be evaluated by the Association for purpose
of financing under the credit at the stage when the proposed
secondary education study has been completed;
(iii) The design of all other project institutions is well advanced
and satisfactory arrangements are being made for the prepara-
tion of furniture and equipment lists;
(iv) The preparation of programs and curricula is being undertaken
by the Task Force, with the assistance of short-term
consultants as required, and no special difficulties are
foreseen. The main risk remaining for the successful
implementation of the project is in the obtaining of a
sufficient supply of well-qualified instructors for all
project institutions. This issue is receiving the attention
of the government and of the Task Force and needs to be
emphasized by future IDA supervision missions; and
(v) A proposed new structure for the Ministry of Education has
been prepared by the Task Force for consideration by the
government. The new structure will include a directorate
for primary education and a directorate for technical
and vocational training as required under the credit
agreement and is expected to be implemented shortly by the
government.



ANNEX 4
YBX  ARAB REPUBLIC
Manpower Requirements by Activity Sector
1973 - 1985
1973         Stock       Manpower      Shortage to
Ebloygent    Surviving   Requirements   be Supplied
Activity Sector   Distribution   in 1985         1985       Total     Annual
Agriculture         i,560,000     1,093,560     1,560,000  466,440   38,900
Industry               10,000         7,010        20,200    13,190    1,100
Construction           25,000        17,525        56,300    38,775    3,200
Trade                  45,000        31,545        76,300    44,775    3,730
Government             50,000        32,978       119,100    86,122    7,200
Services               40.000        28,040        67,800    39,760    3,300
Transport and
Communication        10,000         7,010        18,000    10,990      900
Total               1,740,000     1,217,666     1,917,700   700,034   58,330



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Primary and Secondary Education Development -
1973/74 - 1984/85
Grade       Enrollment           % of Age-Group            Teachers          Student/Teacher Ratios
1973/74   1984/85    1973/74   1984/85    1973/74   1984/85    1973/74               1984/85
Primary                1st      71,080   185,400       30.2%      65.7%
1-4    160,770   581,900       19.1%      54.6%
1-6    178,755   723,800       15.1%      46.9%      4h925       16,100        36             45
Lower Secondary 2/    7th        4,440    32,600 3/   2.9%        14.4%
7-9     10,241    88,500        2.4%      13.6%
Upper Secondary 2/    10-12    4,034    38,2004/    1.1%          6.6%
Sub-total         7-12    14,275   126,700         1.8%     10.3%          751      4,340         19             30
TOTAL                  1-12   193,030   850,500         9.8%      30.7%         -           -          -
Notes:
1/ In Public Education which comprised 98.5% of total enrollments in 1973/74.
2/ Includes teacher training.
3/ Assumes 50% of sixth grade students will progress to lower secondary education.
4/ Assumes 60% of ninth grade students will progress to upper secondary education.



ANNEX 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
ENIRO   NT BY  VEL AND TrPE
1 973/7-4
%          %     % Age
Primary              Eo           Girls       Total        Distribution  Female  Group    % Total
Public               157,985      20,770      178,755          98.5        11.6
Private                2,631          15        2s646           1.5         0.6
160,616     20,785       181,401          100        11.5   15.3    92.2%
Lower Secondary
Public                  9,229        133         51,362        89.7         1.4
Private                   203        -             203          1.9          -
Teacher Training           32        847           879          8.4       96.4
9,464        980       10,444           100         9.4    2.4      5.3%
Upper Secondary
Public general          3,094          4        3,098          76.2        0.1
commercial        174         -            174          4.3          -
vocational        292         -            292           7.2         -
Private                    32        -             32           0.8         -
Teacher Training         192         278          470          11.5       59.1
3,784        282       L4066            100        6.9    1.1       2.0%
University               850         102          952           -         10.7    0.2       0.5%
TOTAL                174,714      22,149      196,863           -         11.3             100%



ANNEX 9
YEM   ARAB REPUBLIC
Actual Expenditures
of the Ministry of Education by Type of Expenditures
1973/1974
Actual         % Total Recur-
Type of Expenditures                         Expenditures    rent Expenditures
I. Recurrent Expenditures
1. Salaries, wages & other benefits            13,171 ,478         73.5
2. Materials & supplies                           335,801           1 .9
3. Rentals                                       560,587            3.1
4. Stipends & other assistance                   108,247            0.6
e. Food, basic clothing, etc.                   23537,533          14.?
6. Operating costs                                725,012           4.0
7. Maintenance                                   314h965            108
8. Miscellaneous                                 164,677            0.9
Total Recurrent Expenditures           17,918,300          100.0
II. Capital Expenditures
1. land & buildings             .47,923
2. Equipnent & machines                           94,230
3. Furmiture                                      56,051
Total Capital Expenditures                608,204
GRAND TOTAL                            18,526,504
== == =_===G=



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Prolection of Expenditures on Education 1974-1985
Additional Student      Estimated Unit Capital          Total Capital Investment Required          Total Recurrent Expenditures in 1984/85
Places Requiredl/      Cost Per Student Place               Amount                                        Amount
1973/4-1984/5         (US$'000, 1975 Prices)       US$000000', 1975 Prices       Percentages      US$000000', 1975 Prices       Percentages
Primary                       500,400                        300                        150.1                   54.2                   35.4                      49.2
Lower Secondary                69,600                        800                         55.7                   20.1                   13.3                       18.4
Upper Secondary                31,100                      1,100                         34.2                   12.5                    6.3                       8.8
Primary Teacher
Training                      2,000                      1,300                          2.6                    1.0                     1.0                       1.2
Vocational/Technical2/           5,000                     3,000                         15.0                    5.4                    3.1                       4.3
Post-Secondary                  2,500                      4,000                         10.0                    3.6                   10.1                      14.1
Basic Training-                18,500                        486                          9.o                    3.3                    2.0                       2.8
Administration                    N/A                        N/A                          N/A                    N/A                      .9                       1.2
TOTAL                                                                              276.6                 100.0                    72.1                     100.0
Average Annual Capital Expenditures
1973-1985 = US$23.0 million
1/ Assuming that in 1974, the University of Sanaa and the teacher training institutes
were operating at 50% capacity, all other schools at 80% capacity.
2/ Includes agricultural.
3/  Asumes the provision of 20 district training centers and training facilities in 200 villages by 1985.
x



ANNEX 9
YEME ARAB REPUBLIC
Expenditures on Education and Training 1971-1974 and Projected 1985
Expenditures bz Sources
(in YR millions)
1970/71     1973/T74    1984/85
1.  Public Expenditures on Education          10.0        18.5       147.4h/
Recurrent                                 10.0        17.9       130   /
Capital                                   Nil          0.6        17.4!/
2. Total Expenditures on Educationz/           N/A        66.0       427.1
Recurrent                                 24.0        48.0       324.5
Capital                                   N/A         18.0       102.6
3.  Total Public Expenditures                253.9       463.0    1,320.9
Recurrent                                170.7       323.7       923.5
Capital                                   83.2       139.3       397.4
4. Gross Domestic Product (GDP)            2,416.5     3,709.7     6,344.8
5. Government Revenues                        97.5       274.0       953.1
6.  Public Expenditures on Education
as a percent of GDP                        0.4         0.5         2.3
7. Total Ecpenditures on Education             N/A         1.8         6.7
as a percent of GDP
8. Public Recurrent Expenditures on
Educatioa as a percent of:
a. Public Recurrent Expenditures           5.9         5.6        14.1
b. Government Revenues                    10.3         6.o        13.6
/ Assuming that, as in 1973/74, 80 percent of capital and 60 percent of
recurrent expenditures would be financed from external sources.
/ Includes external aid to education.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Non-Formal Basic Education and Training
Background and Justification
1.        The current work force in YAR, of which almost 90% are in agricul-
ture or in traditional crafts, suffers from a low educational level (90% il-
literacy) and low skill levels. Measures being taken to develop the formal
education system would lead to progressive improvements in literacy levels
and would also provide skill training for primary school and higher level
graduates in the context of meeting needs for modern sector growth. However,
such measures would not provide for the training needs of the non-literate
adult population and would only achieve major changes in overall literacy
levels over a prolonged period of time. The projected 1985 primary school
enrollments would still leave the equivalent of 53% of the age group in that
year outside the school system while less than half of those who will enter
primary schools between 1974 and 1985 are likely to complete 4th grade. The
position is still further aggravated in YAR, as in many other developing
countries, by the lack of relevance of primary school curricula for the vast
majority of students, whether primary school graduates or dropouts, who must
find employment in agriculture or at the lower skill levels of the modern
sector.
2.        In these circumstances, non-formal education and training, managed
at the local level and responsive to needs determined at the local level, is
seen as having a particularly important role to play in the context of the
country's overall social and economic development. Accordingly, provision
was made under the first education project for the development of proposals
by the UNDP/Unesco Task Force for the initiation of a non-formal basic train-
ing scheme and for the establishment of three district training centers in
accordance with such scheme. The Task Force proposals, which were elaborated
further with the second IDA appraisal mission have been agreed by the govern-
ment and by IDA.
Objectives
3.        The objectives of the basic training scheme are:
(i) to provide opportunities for the non-literate population past
primary school age to acquire a degree of literacy and numeracy
to a level appropriate to their own and national development;
(ii) to provide opportunities for the adolescent and adult popula-
tion to acquire basic vocational skills relating to agricul-
ture, village and community life, artisanal pursuits and home
and family life and thereby contribute to increasing produc-
tivity and well-being;



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(iii) to motivate and to provide such management assistance for
the adult population, in particular in smaller communities,
as is needed to launch and implement community self-help
projects, thereby invigorating communal self-help.
Village-Level Training Activities
4.        The essential element of the scheme is the development of training
activities at the village or community level, employing wherever possible the
services of suitably qualified people from the community and using physical
facilities that are either available within the community, or that will be
provided through community self-help for the purpose of basic education and
training. Thus, such activities do not necessitate that members of the vil-
lage community leave their normal surroundings for any extended period of
time, to the effect that basic education and training would blend harmoniously
with their every-day lives.
5.        The kind of courses to be offered and their organization would be
handled in a flexible manner by taking into account the requirements, the
habits and life styles of the communities. Although all courses would in-
clude a component of literacy and numeracy training, they may be grouped as
follows:
(a) Literacy or functional literacy courses combining the ac-
quisition of literacy with some basic occupational skills
(agriculture, vocational, home and family);
(b) Agricultural courses to be organized in coordination with
the agricultural extension service, mainly through practical
field demonstrations but also using basic training facilities;
(c) Vocational courses aiming at providing a basic technical ver-
satility -- rather than training skilled workers or crafts-
men -- so that trainees would acquire a certain level of
skill which would make them trainable on-the-job if they
decide to seek modern sector employment, or enable them
to exercise their present occupations more effectively.
Vocational courses would be in fields of rural construction
(houses, communication facilities, irrigation, water reser-
voirs, basic installations, etc.), elementary-woodworking
and elementary mechanics (mainly maintenance and repair of
mechanical implements in agriculture) as well as courses in
specific artisanal crafts;
(d) Home and family courses primarily for the female population,
emphasizing hygiene, health, nutrition, child care, food
preservation and artisanal work;
(e) Community life and general cultural courses.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
6.        As the normal pattern of school years, weekly and daily periods of
the traditional formal system cannot be applied to the basic training programs,
a number of time units (20 periods each) have been foreseen for each self-
contained course. Depending on the nature of the courses the number of
units per course varies from 1 to 30.  However, since the objective of the
basic training courses is to maintain a minimum proficiency in literacy,
basic skills or techniques, rather than to pass examinations, the duration
is not of prime importance. The courses can be organized in different ways.
For example, 1 unit (20 periods) can be delivered: (a) 2 periods a week for
a duration of 10 weeks; (b) 5 days per week of 4 periods each, for 1 week,
(c) 2-1/2 full days of 8 hours each for one-half week and, of course, other
configurations would be possible. In general, it would be preferable to
concentrate courses. But courses wouldl be organized in such a way that
people who are working every day -- possibly the majority of clients -- are
facilitated.
7.        The basic training activities will be provided in the villages in
whatever locale may be found suitable or capable of being adapted for the
purpose with limited financial investment. Samples of buildings which would
be used include existing school buildings (for use in off-school hours),
space connected with the mosque and other Waqf building. To supplement such
facilities or where they do not exist, communities wishing to have basic
training may provide physical shelter t:hrough community effort but with gov-
ernment assistance. Such building might be suited to a variety of purposes
and will normally take the form of a sLmple structure to accommodate, in two
sections, home crafts and vocational crafts. Rudimentary furniture and equip-
ment would also be required. The equipment would not require permanent in-
stallation or electric power but would take the form of sets of basic hand-
tools for woodworking, rural construct:Lon, basic mechanics, basic automecha-
nics and home life and crafts.
District Training Centers
8.        A district training center (I)TC) would be established in each rural
district to serve as a focal point and stimulus for all basic training activi-
ties :Ln the area. Although some variations will occur between the respective
DTCs, they will serve the following main functions:
(a) Initiate and implement basic training programs at the centers,
for the communities for whom the centers are accessible;
(b) Stimulate and organize activities at the community/village level
in different fields of non-formal basic training by collaborating
with community groups having a potential for leadership;
(c)  Assist in the organization of community councils;
(d)  Provide managerial, educational and logistical input for
the village training activities;



ANNfiEX 10
(e) Assist in the selection and provision of accommodation and
supply equipment and other learning materials to the villages;
(f) Select local people who are suitable to work as trainers, train
them as trainers and employ them on a contractual basis for
basic training activities;
(g) Develop or adapt programs for basic training in the district
that suits its particular characteristics and can be imple-
mented in the villages;
(h) Evaluate basic training activities and employ the evaluation
findings in the continuous improvement and modification of
activities;
(i) Serve as district administrative agency for the implementation
of the basic training scheme, including financing and procure-
ment under the scheme.
9.        An ingredient of success for the basic training scheme is that
programs should be geared towards local development needs and opportunities.
Training will have limited appeal unless it leads to improved employment
prospects or productivity. Programs will be developed, therefore, to the
extent possible, in conjunction with and as a backstop to agricultural and
industrial development projects. For this purpose the DTC would organize
specific training in collaboration with the agencies carrying the main opera-
tional responsibility for implementation of development projects in the
district (e.g. launching a scheme for poultry production, setting up a small
industrial plant or building a road). In smaller villages, the clientele for
organizing separate subject courses may not be available in sufficient numbers.
In these cases "project courses" would be organized grouping a number of edu-
cational inputs (e.g. skill acquisition, numeracy, health and hygiene) around
a development project such as digging a well and providing water.
Staffing
10.       The key staff required for each of the DTC would be as follows:
(a) Director and Deputy Director would be Yemeni university
graduates for whom special training in non-formal basic
training would be provided abroad (under the UNDP fellow-
ship program).
(b) Four leader/trainers as follows:
(i) Leader/trainer for functional literacy would be an
experienced primary school teacher;



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(ii)  Leader/trainer for agricultural activities would be
the extension agent of the district--the Ministry of
Agriculture has agreed to appoint agricultural extension
agents to the districts where the DTCs would be estab-
lished;
(iii)  Leader/trainer for home and family life would be a
post-preparatory school leaver (woman);
(iv)  Leader/trainer for craft training would have to be
recruited from abroad because of the present lack of
technicians in YAR--three are being recruited under
the UNDP technical assistance component of the first
education project andl a further four under the proposed
second project.
Leader/trainers would received special training over one year
in the DTC at Bagil which is being established under the first
education project. The center would have facilities, including
boarding, for this purpose. Experts of the UNDP/Unesco Task
Force would act as instruc:tors for the training of leader/
trainers.
(c) An accounts clerk who is likely to be a secondary school
graduate with some accounting experience and who will attend
a one-year training course;
(d)  About 35 front-line instructors--20 for the basic training activi-
ties in the villages and 15 in the DTC itself--would be
required for each district.. Almost all courses require that
instructors possess vocational/occupational skills and are
sufficiently literate to bring literacy to others. Since such
a combination of competencies will not be readily available,
it must be produced through training with the recruitees for
training coming from two sources:
- those who are literate but lack technical skill; and
- those who possess some technical skills but are deficient
in literacy.
11.       Courses for instructors who will be recruited locally will be given
at each DTC by the leader/trainers, with preference given in recruitment to
those with vocational/occupational skills. As front-line instructors would
be working on contracts for specific courses, training will normally be of
short duration with a specific orientation.  A special type of course will
be arranged for agricultural extension agents to introduce them to functional
literacy work.



ANNEX 10
rage b
Target Groups and Enrollments for Basic Training
12.       Under the development of the scheme, it is intended that basic train-
ing activities should be established in the rural communities and small towns
(under 20,000 populations) in all regions of YAR, aiming at out-of-school per-
sons 11-55 years of age and facilitating the development of more relevant
programs for primary school students through the availability of skill training
programs in the villages. Each DTC to be established would service a population
area of between 60,000 and 80,000, depending on population density and acces-
sibility of villages. It is estimated that a DTC would train, when in full
operation, about 1,300 people per year in the facilities of the DTC and in
addition, during the experimental stage, some 1,500 people per year would be
trained in 10-12 villages in the catchment areas of the DTC through front-line
activities. Thus each DTC would provide basic training for about 2,800 rural
people per year, excluding any training which might be provided to primary
school students. It is anticipated that a considerable number of the popula-
tion would also be reached to some extent through various communication media,
especially mobile audio-visual aids, which would be provided by the DTC to
support village activities.
Locations for Proposed District Training Centers
13.       The three DTCs being established under the first education project
will be located at Bagil, Kaida and Omran. The town population in each case
is estimated at between 14,000 and 17,000 and there is a good hinterland of
accessible villages. While these centers were conceived of as pilot develop-
ments, there is already a widely felt need for basic training as well as a need
to increase the impact of the proposed basic training scheme through its ap-
plication in other regions of the country at this critical stage in the develop-
ment of education and training in YAR. Accordingly, four additional DTCs
(Saada, Beiyda, Hajja and Zabid) are included in the proposed second education
project. The town populations for these centers, estimated at between 8,000
and 12,000, would in common with the first three centers, provide sufficient
numbers of young and adult clientele for the training activities in the DTCs
themselves while having a substantial number of villages around them to be
served by the DTCs. The seven locations, which are widely spread throughout
the country in six of the ten governorates, are all centers of very under-
developed rural areas but have potential for socio-economic development. Two
of the towns, (Kaida and Zabid), are well located in relation to development
projects (the Southern Uplands Project and the Tihama Agricultural Development
Project, respectively) with which the training programs in the DTCs will be
closely linked. The existence of active local development boards in all of
the proposed DTC areas is a favorable indicator of potential local participation
in basic training programs for which there is an acute need in these areas.
Organization and Management
14.       The main organizational principle of the basic training scheme is
the need to involve the population at large, with due support from the govern-
ment, in the development process. Communities in villages and rural towns



ANNEX 10
Page 7
would have a voice in determining the type of basic education and training they
need and receive.  They would be represented on community and district coun-
cils and would participate in the management and contribute to the development
of the basic training scheme. The community council, normally consisting of
the secular and religious leaders of the village, a representative designated
by the provincial governor and two other members designated by the community,
wouLd:
-    propose basic training activities, for consideration by
the DTC within overall criteria and the operating budget,
for which the DTC would recruit contractual staff and supply
appropriate physical and financial support where warranted;
-    provide for these activities suitable locales that either
exist already or are to be provided through community self-help;
-    motivate the population to participate in basic training activi-
ties as learners and suitable people to serve as instructors.
15.       Administration of the scheme would take place essentially at the
district level in coordination with the community councils and with reference
to central level only on matters of major policy and overall financial con-
trol. The technical input for such administration would be furnished by the
staff of the DTCs, assisted by other qualified people at district level, e.g.
the regional director of education, the agricultural extension agent, etc.
To provide for the participation of all appropriate interests, a district
council would be established in each district, which might include repre-
sentatives from the Ministry of Education, the provincial governor, the local
development board, community councils and other government ministries such as
Agriculture, Health and Labor where t:hey have offices in the district.
16.       The council would advise on the activities of the DTCs and in
particular, (i) the staffing policy for both the staff of DTC and contractual
staff; (ii) the program policy; (iii) the financial requirements resulting from
the operations envisaged for the DTCs; and (iv) collaboration and liaison with
other agencies capable of, and willing to, deliver non-formal training and/or
community development services.
17.       General policy and guidelines would be established and overall fi-
nancial control exercised by a National Board chaired by the Minister of Educa-
tion, or his representative, and with representatives of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Labor, Health, Development, Information and Finance and the
Federation of Local Development Boards. The Board would be assisted by a
small secretariat staffed by an educational administrator, an administrative
assistant, two secretaries/clerks and assisted on a part-time basis by the
accountant and procurement officer of the Project Unit (until the1development
of the scheme justifies full-time appointments). The secretariat would:



ANNEX 10
Page 8
prepare quarterly progress reports and six-monthly financial
reports for the Board;
submit the DTC's operating budgets to the Board;
obtain formal approval of Board for proposals from DTCs
which are in accordance with the Board's guidelines;
in cases of doubt or where special approvals are sought
by the DTC's, seek views of a technical committee consisting
of the Directors of the DTCs and submit for decision by the
Board.
Costs under Basic Training Scheme
18.       Annual recurrent costs under the basic training scheme have been
estimated at US$56,000 for each district but are expected to increase to
US$100,000 by 1985, at 1975 constant prices, because of real increases in
salaries and extension of district activities. On this basis, annual recur-
rent costs per trainee in 1985 would amount to about US$36, assuming 2,800
trainees per district annually (para 12).
19.       Recurrent expenditure for the DTCs and for the village activities
will be met by the government who anticipate receiving financial assistance
for the purpose from bilateral sources. Following an initial trial period an
annual operating budget will be established for each DTC (with a separate
allocation for village activities) by the National Board, subject to customary
budgeting procedures, and a financial allocation made accordingly to the DTC.
The DTCs will provide twice yearly financial reports to the National Board,
through the Secretariat.
20.       The capital costs for the seven pilot district training centers, for
which provision is included in the first and proposed second education projects,
are estimated at about US$0.25 million for each center at 1975 prices. The
schedules of accommodation for each center (excluding Bagil for which a small
residential unit for leader trainees is being added) is given in Table 1.
Since it is not visualized that more than 20 centers would be constructed by
1985 and that a maximum of 40 centers would be required for the full develop-
ment of the scheme (para. 23), the estimated level of investment cost is con-
sidered acceptable to allow of replication of the centers.
21.       The maximum investment required to provide basic training for a
community at the village level has been estimated at US$30,000, based on about
$300 per place, of which about $15,000 would be for buildings, $12,000 for
equipment and materials and $3,000 for furniture, related to providing a range
of trade programs in the larger villages. However, the investment required
would vary depending on the availability of suitable existing facilities and
therange of programs to be provided and on average is likely to amount to
$20,000 per community. Many smaller villages would not in fact have any fixed
locales and programs would be provided using mobile equipment.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
Basic Training Fund
2:2.      Since it would be neither desirable nor feasible to attempt to
predetermine at this stage the locations for village-level activities nor
the range of programs which would be required at any given location, it is
proposed to establish a fund to meet the investment costs of such activities
as they arise. The fund would encourage the development of training programs
by providing an immediate source of finance, within the financial limitations
of the fund, for any community with the initiative to develop suitable
programs.
23.       The fund (Basic Training Fund) would be established at the Yemen
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, an existing commercial bank with an
established network of branch offices throughout most of the YAR. The amount
to be allocated to the fund under the proposed credit would amount to US$1.0
million, to be paid into the fund on a phased basis over three years. An
initial payment of US$50,000 into the fund would be made on receipt of con-
firmation from the government that the National Board and at least one of
the District Councils had been established; subsequent payments into the fund
would be made on application from the government, normally to be made quarter-
ly, in the form of reimbursement for expenditures already made from the fund,
supported by details of locations, programs and facilities for which expendi-
tures had been made, together with copies of furniture, equipment and r3n-
struction contracts (if any) and appropriate receipts.
Disbursements from Basic Training Fund
24.       Disbursements from the fund, which would require the signatures of
the Minister of Education and of the chief executive officer, or their
designated representatives, would be made to the Directors of the DTCs and
would be subject to the following conditions:
(i) The National Board would not approve investment in any single
community of more than US$30,000 from the fund, of which about
US$15,000 would be for buildings, US$12,000 for equipment and
materials and $3,000 for furniture;
(ii) Proposals to be made by the Director of a DTC for funding a
community training scheme would be supported by details of
the proposed training programs and of required furniture,
equipment and construction (with estimated costs);
(iii) Only training programs on the lines of those indicated in
para. 5 or such special courses as may be approved by the
National Board would qualify for funding;
(iv)  Proposals for funding for any community would be approved only
where a community council had been formed, where the community
had indicated its wish to participate in basic training



ANNEX 10
Page 10
programs and where agreement existed on a contribution in
kind by the community of 25% of the cost of the proposed
investment; and
(v) The Director of the DTC submitting a proposal for funding
would provide confirmation that an instructor would be
available for the proposed training programs and that
adequate funds would be available within the budget of
the DTC to meet the recurrent costs of the programs.
Accounting and Auditing Procedures for the Basic Training Fund
25.       The precise form of auditing and accounting procedures would be
a matter for the government but would be subject to the following minimum
requirements:
(a) simple receipts and payments records would be maintained at
each district training center for investment costs of village
basic training programs, with a separate record sheet for
each location;
(b) payment vouchers and receipts would be available in accessible
form;
(c) the accountant for the Project Unit/National Board Secretariat
would assist in establishing an appropriate record system
accordingly for each District Center and would instruct the
accounts clerk as necessary in procedures;
(d) the accountant would inspect the records not less than twice
yearly and provide a yearly audit statement;
(e) records of disbursements from the Fund to the District
Training Centers would be maintained by the National Board
Secretariat, with supporting documentation on programs and
locations in respect of which disbursements were made; and
(f) records would also be maintained by the Secretariat for
equipment procurement on behalf of the DTCs, separately
for each district.
Procurement under Basic Training Fund
26.       Procurement and form of payment under the Fund would be as follows:
Civil Works
(a) The local contribution of 25% of total investment costs at each
village location would be expected to be in the form of a contribution towards



ANNEX 10
Page 11
civil works cost under a self-help scheme of construction managed by the local
Development Board. The amount of the contribution towards construction costs
from funds allocated out of the Basic Training Fund would vary depending on
the proportion of construction costs to total investment costs, but would not
exceed the disbursement percentage for civil works provided under the credit
(63%).
(b) Payment towards construction costs would be authorized by the
Director of the District Training Center, or his appointee, on the basis of:
(i)  Application for payment by the Local Development Board
supported by a statement of work progress.
(ii)  Visits of inspection by a member of the staff of the DTC
(normally the technician) to confirm progress of work.
(iii)  Full technical evaluation by Project Unit at least once
during course of construction.
Furniture
(a) Furniture would be procured by the DTCs for the village locations
through local procedures under which not less than three bids
would be sought from local manufacturers. Acceptable standards
of furnishing, procurement procedures and levels of furniture
prices would be agreed in advance with the National Board
Secretariat in consultation with the Project Unit.
(b) Payments for furniture would be made by the Director of the
DTC, or his appointee, against signed contracts and on con-
firmation of delivery. It would be a matter of discretion
for the Director to accept and pay for delivery in installments.
(c)  The Project Unit would carry out random checks on delivery and
furniture standards.
Equipment
(a) Since many items of equipment would generally be in sets of
equipment related to known programs, it is likely that such
items could be procured more readily through a central office.
In general, therefore, equipment would be procured by the
National Board Secretariat, using local procurement procedures,
on the basis of a request from the DTC. General lists of
equipment for each type of program would be prepared by the
Task Force for each type of program, in agreement with the
government and IDA, as guidelines and to indicate parameters
of cost. The DTCs would be permitted to modify the basic
lists as they considered appropriate to meet local needs
within overall cost parameters.



ANNEX 10
Page 12
(b) Payments for equipment would be made against signed contract
and on confirmation by the DTC of receipt of the equipment
and that the quality of the equipment as delivered is
satisfactory.
Evaluation
27.       Since the basic training scheme is being developed initially on a
pilot basis and many aspects of it are necessarily experimental, evaluation
is essential. Such evaluation will be conducted continuously by the district
training centers in accordance with guidelines to be developed by short-term
consultants and under the general supervision of the basic training special-
ists in the Task Force. The evaluation would focus on attainment of trainees
in the DTCs and in village programs (in literacy, numeracy, skills, etc.),
community response and support for training programs, success in obtaining
suitable instructors for the villages and, through a tracer system, subsequent
employment of trainees and value of basic training in such employment. Short-
term consultants would also be employed at the end of two years of operation
of the basic training scheme to assist the Task Force in evaluating progress
in attaining the objectives of the scheme, in examining the operation of the
proposed administrative and organizational arrangements, and in carrying out
comparative evaluation between districts, taking into account the impact of
well-defined agricultural/rural development projects in some districts (e.g.
at Kaida under the first education project and at Zabid under the proposed
second project).
Future Development of Basic Training Scheme
28.       Further development needs under the basic training scheme cannot be
accurately foreseen pending experience of operation of the pilot centers.
Estimated expenditures for 1985 have been calculated on the basis of 20
district centers being established by 1985 and facilities being provided in
200 villages (Annex 8). Additional needs would be determined by the extent
of growth of the formal education system and of the integration of basic
training with formal programs. It may be expected that each district center
would reach a progressively widening circle of villages and that, at maximum
development, no more than 40 district centers would be required (i.e. one
center for each of the country's designated districts).
Technical Assistance
29.       Staffing proposals have been developed on the basis of limiting
dependence on expatriate sources to the maximum extent possible and the
majority of trainers and instructors would be Yemenis. However, expertise
is lacking in certain key areas and accordingly the following services would
be provided through technical assistance components of the education projects
to be funded by UNDP.



ANNEX 10
Page 13
Under the first education project
(i)  Basic Training Specialist (member of Task Force) for 2 man/years
to initiate the basic training scheme;
(ii)  Short-term consultants to develop basic training programs in:
-    Functional Literacy (3 man/months)
-    Agricultural Training (3 man/months)
-    Technical Vocational Training (3 man/months) as well
as specialists in:
-    Social Research (6 man/months)
-    Evaluation (9 man/months)
(iii) Three technical/vocational, trainers (2 man/years each)
(iv) Other specialists on the Task Force will serve as instructors
for the trainers' course at Bagil.
Under the proposed second education project
(i)  4 Basic Training Experts to be stationed in the field to
provide technical administrative assistance to the DTCs
(2 man/years each);
(ii) 4 Technical/Vocational Trainers to be stationed at Beiyda,
Saada, Hajja and Zabid (2 man/years each);
(iii) 1 Education administration specialist to advise the Chief
Executive Officer of the Secretariat (2 man/years)*.
*    To be financed under the proposed credit.



ANNEX 10
Tabls I
BASIC TRAINING CENTERS
Schedule of Acconmmdation
m2
Classrooms (2 x 40)                                                   80
Home/Family and Craft Room                                           100
Health Room                                                           50
Woodwork Shop
Enclosed Area:  50                                )
Unenclosed Covered Area:  100 (at 1/2 cost)    )15
Mechanical Trades Shop:
Enclosed Area:  50                                )
Unenclosed Covered Area : 100 (at 1/2 cost)   )50
Rural Construction  (+outdoor area)                                   50
FducationRl Materials Store                                           20
600
Director's Office                                                     15
Accountant's Office                                                   10
Secretary's Office                                                    10
Staff Common Room                                                     20
Reproduction Area                                                     15
Dining Room and Kitchen                                               60
Ablution Areas (2)                                                    40
General Store (at 1/? cost)                                           30
Garage (at 1/2 cost)                                                  30
830
Add Circulation and WAU1s (20%)                                      166
996
Add Directorts House                                                 120
1,116



ANNEX 10
CHART I
PROPOSED SEQUENCE FOR APPROVAL OF A FUNDING REQUEST
FOR FRONT-LINE ACTIVITIES
FELT
NEEDS
| LrDISTRICT   |PREPARE   [PROPOSAL FOR
|  COMMUNTTY   |  CETRAINING                             F FUNDING
CENTER                  t    ___   __
_v________-'                      ~~~~~SUBMIT
SATISFY
NEEDS                                    N 
[  PROVIDE
FUN.DS                    C.E.O.
TUDY
PROPOSAL
NOTES:                                     I
1. ONLY DISTRICT TRAINING CEN-                     R_ IT                           REJECT
TERS (DTCs), OR LOCAL COK-                YES,              EG          NO      REQUEST
MUNITIES THROUGH DTCs, CAN                 NO RESTRICTIONS
INITIATE REQUESTS.
2. APPROVAL OF LOCAL COMMUNITY                                     YES,
IS ENSURED FOR EACH PROPOSAL                                    BUT REQUIRES
BY 25% PARTICIPATION REQ'T.                                     APPROVAL
3. NATIONAL BO.ARD CANNOT ENTER-                                4
TAIN A REQUEST UNLESS TECH-
NICAL COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS                                 STUDY BY
IT.                                                       TECHNICAL
COMMITTEE
I
PROVE                 REJECT
NO     REQUEST
YES 
SUBMIT TO
NATIONAL
BOARD
REJECT
YES                          NO



ASNXX 11
C_.___ ______-    I                                                     _____  ___
I Xo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
41                                    _  ._ _ __     
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                                    -  - - - - -    - - - - - - -
~~~~~~~~                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
,S I    fl                                            , 
|oil            |  IC                                          C                   
-    _  |   t                 +      <    _i           g       X   Q  e    c  e             -~~~~~~~~~t i
ml | ; O s 4 * a v~~~~~Z t                                                                    g- A    i
I~~~~~~~~~~ .0 0  0    C0.                                    C ZZ-  =W,,,- :I
{ ~     ~~~                                                 0  >v       o       ,cX_; eo01:   
_ S * S a g ,, e + a s E 00X 0*                        0=  . a       C       *   0  
X~~~~~~~C -                           0*0  00.  wwc  =c ~ n   
4~~~~~~~~~~0.,o a00  00  0000)0  00-->                                                00000 0-0
O ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     0 O0 9        00    0000    00C0000C0000W               C     U     I
(<~ ~~~~~~0    0. l. w.                                                                          00  ^1 XX tX o   Xo 
|~~~   ~ ~ ,0 v |                                                                       0-    a              
| 0                            0.   0. |                    00                             0    0 U00      COA Xo CCjW Us^ 
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0  0- |0 0.                                                            000.    XUaHS      A,P* XEff     
I0 0l
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I0 -00    l
I   .0                                                       00 0e                                                      I
U~~~~~~~~~~~                                  .0 .0                                   0           0         



ANNEX 12
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Project Costs by Type of Expenditures
(in YR and US$'000; US$1.00 - YR4.50)
YR'000                       US$'000             %  of
Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign    Total   Total
Physical Facilities:
Civi:l Works
(Bui:Lding/site
development)         10,027    6,685   16,712       2,228    1,486    3,714    31%
Furn:Lture               452    1,355    1,807         101       301       402      4%
Equipment                863    7,769    8,632          192    1,726    1,918    16%
Subtotal            11,342   15,809   27,151       2,521    3,513    6,034    51%
Services:
Professional
Services                 165       660       825        36       147       183     2%
Project Admin-
istration              1,844       618    2,462        409       138       547     4%
Technical
Assistance             1,209    6,846    8,055          269    1,521    1,790    15%
Subtotal             3,218    8,124   11,342         714    1,806    2,520    21%
Contingencies:
(Physical and Price
Increases)              6,210    8,911   15,121       1,380    1,980    3,360    28%
Total Project Cost      20,770   32,844   53,614       4,615    7,299   11,914   100%



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
(As of December. 1975)
Type of Facilities          Gross Area        Building Cost/                Cost per Student (in US$)
Per Siudent        m2 Gross Area
(m )                                 Building  Furniture  Equipment    Total
Academic and Communal Facili-
ties
Primary Teacher Training
Institutes                        4.7                178                  837       135          260       1,232
Vocational Training Centers        12.0               161                1,932        80        1,180       3,192
District Training Centers           5.7               156                  889       143          378       1,410 -
Boarding Facilities
Teacher Training Institutes         6.5               178                1,158       240          -         1,398
Vocational Training Centers         6.5               178                1,158       240          -         1,398
Staff Housing
Directors' Houses for New
Institutions                    120.0                178               21,360        -           -        21,360
1/ Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
2/ Cost per trainee based on annual output would be $189.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Contingency _llowances
(YR and_USS '030L US_.0 S_OR4.50)
PTroessiomal          PTroect            Technical
Civil Works         Furniture          Eouipment            Services         Administration        Assistance _    __Sub-total              Total
Loca    Foreien   Local   Foreien   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   l.ocal   Foreign                 YR      US$
Percentage of Local and Foreign:                607/      407.     257,       75%      10,'       90.    207.        80%     75%        25%      15%        85%      397.       61%
1. Base Line Cost -             in YR       LO,027      6,665      452      1,355      863      7,769      165        660   1.844       618    1.209       6.846  14,560    23,933   38,493
(as of December 1975)        in US$      2,228       1,486      101        301      192     1,726       36        147      409       138       269      1,521   3,235      5,319               8,554
2. Unforeseen Physical          in 7            10%       10%      10%        107,    10%         10%      10%        10%      5%        5%        57.         5%
Increases                    in YR          878        586       35        105       66        595       17         66      92        31        60        343   1,148       1,726    2.874
in US$         195        130        8         23      14        132        4         15       21         7        13         76      255        383                638
3. Sub-total (1+2)              in YR       10,905      7,271      487      1,460      929      8,364      182        726   1,936        649    1,269      7,189  15,708      25,659   41,36/
in US$      2,423      1,616       109        324     206      1,858       40        162      430       145       282      1.597   3,490      5,702               9,192
4. Price Increases              in 7.           40%       40%       33/       33%      33%       33%       15%        15%      257,      25%       257.       25%
in YR        3,866      2,577     127        382      240      2,158       27        109      485       161       317      1,798   5,062       7,185   12,247
in US$         859        573      27         85       54        480        6         24      108        36        71        399   1,125       1,597
5, Total Contingencies          in YR        4,744      3,163      162        487      306     2,753        44        175     577       192       377      2,141   6,210       8,911   15,12i
(2+4)                        in US$       1,054        703       35        108      68        612       10         39     129         43        84        475   1,380       1,980               3,360
6. TOTAL PROJECT COST           in YR       14,771      9,848      614      1,842   1,169    10,522        209        835   2,421       810    1, 586      8,987  20,770    32,844   53,614
(including contingencies)  in US$         3.282      2,189      136       409      260      2,338       46        186      538       181       353      1,996   4,615       7,299              11,914
1/ Includes Basic Training Fund in which there is no contingencies provision.



ANNEX 15
YEIMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Vinancial Plan
(in millions)
Government                  Association                    U N D P                        TOTAL
YR      1S$        %        YR       US$        7       YR        US$       7O       YR       -US$       /
Civil Works:
Local                            6.91    1.53    29.7         6.98    1.56       30.3      --        --       --       13.89      3.09      60
Foreign                            __       __       __       9.26    2.06       40.0      __        __       _-        9.26      2.06      40
Sub-total                        6.91    1.53    29.7    16.24    3.62           70.3      --        --       --       23.15      5.15    100
Furniture:
Local                              __       __       __        .58      .13      25.0      --        --       --         .58       .13      25
Foreign                           __                          1.74      .38      75.0      --                           1.74       .38      75
Sub-total                          --      3-        -        2         .51    100.0        _        _.32 _.51    100
Equipment:
Local                              --                         1.10      .24      10.0      --        --       --        1.10       .24      10
Foreign                                              --      9.93    2.21        90.0      --                 --        9.93      2.21      90
Sub-total                         --       --       --      11.03    2.45      100.0       --        __       __       11.03      2.45    100
Professional Services:
Local                              --       --      --         .19      .04      20.0      --        --       --         .19       .04      20
Foreign                                                        .77      .17      80.0      --        --       --         .77       .17      80
Sub-total                         --       --       --         .96      .21    100.0       --        --       --         .96       .21    100
Project Administrattor.:
Local                              --      -                 2.33       .51      75.0      --        __       __        2.33       .51      75
Foreign                           __        __       __       .78       .18      25.0      --        __       __         .78       .18      25
Sub-total                         --   -  -         --       3.11       .69    100.0       --        --       --        3.11       .69    100
Technical Assistance:
Local                             --       --       --         .08      .02       0.9      1.45      .32    14.1        1.53       .34      15
Foreign                           --       --       --         .43      .09       4.0      8.21     1.83    81.0        8.64      1.92      85
Sub-total                         --       --       --         .51      .11       4.9      9.66    2.15    95:1       10.17       2.26    100
Sub-Total (including price
increases):
Local                            6.91    1.53    13.6    11.26    2.50           22.1      1.45      .32      2.9      19.62      4.35      39
Foreign                                             --      22.91    5.09        45.2      8.21     1.83    16.2       31.12      6.92      61
Sub-total                        6.91    1.53    13.6    34.17    7.59           67.3      9.66    2.15      19.1     50.74      11.27 -
Physical Contingencies:
Local                              .63      .14    21.9        .46      .11      13.6       .06      .01      2.1       1.15       .26      40
Foreign                           --       --       --        1.37      .30      50.2       .35      .08    12.2        1.72       .38      60
Sub-total                          .63      .14    21.9      1.83       .41      63.8       .41      .09     14.3       2.87       .64    100
Total Project Cost:
Local                            7.54    1.67    14.0    11.72    2.61           21.9      1.51      .33      2.8      20.77    4.61        39
Foreign                           __        __      __      24.28    5.39        45.3      8.56     1.91    16.0       32.84    7.30        61
TOTAL                            7.54    1.67    14.0    36.00    8.00           67.2    10.07    2.24    18.8         53.61   11.91       100
_ -                -         -        -         -         -       _          -        _          - 



ANNEX 16
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Implemens:ation Schedule
Ist Year          2nd Year           3 d Year           4th Year
Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls and                                    . 12       1
Vocational Training Centers
(a) Design & Construction
1. Acquire Sites                                                        A
2. Appoint Design Consultants
3. Finalize Brief                                                 _
4. Prepare Designs
5. Prepare Bid Documents
6. ieek Bids & Award Contracts
7. Construction Period                                                                                 _
fb) Furniture & Equipment Procurement
1. I'repare Master Lists                                                      IA
2. Finalize Lists & Specifications
3. Plrepare Bid Documents
4. Seek Bids and Award Contracts
5. Manufacture & Install                                                      .
District Trainine Centers
a) Design & Consl:ruction
1. Acquire Sices                                                  _      _
2. Appoint Design Consultants
3. F'inalize Brief
4. E'repare Designs                                        t
5. F'repare Bid Documents                                                      _
6. Seek Bids & Award Contracts
7. Construction Period
(b) Furniture & Equipment Procurement
1. Prepare Master Lists
2. Finalize Lists & Specifications,
3. Prepare Bid Documents
4. Seek Bids & Award Contracts
5. Manufacture & Install
Materials Production Center
'a) Design & Construction
1. Complete Pre-Investment Study
2. Finalize Brief
3. Prepare Designs
4. Prepare Bid Documents
5, Seek Bids & Award Contracts
6. Construction Period
(b) F_.roture & Ecuipment Procurement
1. Prepare Master Lists
2. Finalize Lists & Specifications
3. Prepare Bid Documents
4. SeZek Bids & Award Contracts
5. Manufacture & Install
Primary Teacher TraininR  Institutes for Boys
(Equipment)                                                               I                           '        1        1      
1. Prepare Programs
2. Prepare Master Lists
3. Finalize Lists & Specifications
4. Prepare Bid Documents
5. Seek Bids & Award Contracts
6. Manufacture & Install
Pro ject Uni t                                                                                                                      I   il l    
Appoint Additional Key staff                                       I                                                                      *
_____                   _____   _                       f  j3 1-1l j2 i3 j4 E1.J1.A2 3                            Z4 Ij     4
Loan     Loan
Negoti- Signing
A     Indicates IDA approval.                           ations



ANNEX 17
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
to Basic Training Fund
(in US$ millions)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Quarter            Disbursements           Disbursements           Balance
First Year            Amount                     Amount              Amount
1                   0.00                      0.00                 1.00
2                   0.00                     0.00                  1.00
3                   0.00                      0.00                 1.00
4                   0.05                      0.05                0o95
Second Year
1                   0 05                      0.10                 0990
2                   0.05                      0.15                 0.85
3                   0.05                     0.20                  0.80
4                   0.10                      0.30                 0.70
Third Year
1                   0.10                      0.40                 0.60
2                   0.10                     0.50                  0.50
3                   0,10                      0.60                 0.4o
4                   0.10                      0.70                 0.30
Fourth Year
1                   0.15                      0.35                 0.15
2                   0.15                     1.00                  0.00
3
1/ Beginning from date of Credit Agreement.



ANNEX 18
YEMEN ARAB REPUBIIC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ zniil2 nA)
1/                           Accumulated           Undisbursed
Semster         Disbursements         Disbursements            Balance
First Year                                 0.00                  8.00
1               0.02                  0.02                  7.98
2               0.05                  0.07                  7.93
Second Year
1               0o43                  0,50                  7.50
2               0080                  1.30                  6.20
3hiLrd Year
1               2.20                  3.50                  6.50
2               2.50                  6o00                  2.00
Fourth Year
1               1.50                  7.50                  0.50
2               0,50                  8000                 000
1/ Beginning at date of Credit Agreement



ERt IRAO ;n   t  te'4/                                                                           YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                      lB6R14
BAA '" NEUTRAL>            <2 #                           S A U D I  A R A 6 1 A                             SECOND  EDUCATION  PROJECT
RD            AAAAID  lEA           I nG.g                    \   Dbobra0                                                         Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls
<zL   4  SAUOI ARAEIA  ;;  --     ~                                                                           O       Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Boys(Equipment only)
~ ' ;, UNITEDA A>ff5   r .                                                                                                        District    Tr aining   C enters
201s            '                                                                                A       Vocational Training Centers
*       Educational Materials ProductIon Center
i   BAr , r SCAIrO                                                                                       - )      Paved  Ro.ds
19o k    rTHloFlA                                                                                                     PoFsM   1   )  t 0  t   S    )  CunP d Roads under corstructIon
a'  DrAIDrIA '~~             10'                                                                                        Other  Roads
   National Capital
,   e   i 0  i   t    D/ A   H               o    Cities, Towns and Villages
JIB..  )                             --~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -. ~~~~Wadis
Saadoto     ,',  >  g  r  ,,                        I 5*0-  Contours in Meters
'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ International Airoorts
AS  \     )b\    Provincial Boundories
\ -                       lnternational  Boundaries
0      20       AO      60       50      100
A J J                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMET5iS
MILES
"S= 5                                                                                                                                                       . 7RIe
,,, ' ' * X ., //'                                                                        I4
*                        '         l tkbno X  a  +->\                    <.t ~~~~~~PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OP  YEMEN
M  ira
Al~~~~~~, 
ETHIOPIA             .HI                                                                                                     500
H.J.id ~        ~         SY          n      mJbkx
.' .~-,                                                                                              I   D    A
/               PT. A. I            b
/  ri endor,, rel or .rlaDu 'IAAI'I'I
AAAOOA_,I'A_II..'A.D0Dl                                                                                                                                            _lK_ AU



