COpE                          Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. P-1724a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
January 27, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRFNCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
US$1                 =     YR 4.50
YR 1                 =     US$0.22
YR 1,000             =     US$222
YR 1,000,000         =     US$222,222
Fiscal Year  : July 1 to June 30
No par value for the Yemen Rial has yet been declared to the
IMF. All exchange transactions are effected at the Central
Bank rate whic:h has been pegged to the US dollar since February
1973



FOR OFFICIAL USF' 0N4,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME1NT ASSOCIATL[ON
REPORT ANI) RECOMMENDATI(OT OF THE PRIV'SII-4-WN
TO THIE E,XECUTIVE DIIRlCTnP; O'N A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REF'I l[C
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
developmient credit to the Yemen Arab Repuiblic *YA1P), for the equivalent of
US$8.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finince a Seconld Education
Project.  UNDP is expected to participate with, a grant of about $2.24 million
to finance part of the technical assistance component under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOIMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position anrd Prospects of ihe
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, and based (os the
findings of an economic mission whichi visitedf tl: Yenen. Arqb Republic In
September 1974 and an updating mission in October/November 1975; was distr-t--
buted to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1'76. A country data sheet
is attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.        The YAR is among the least-developed countries in the world with
a per capita income in 1974 of about $120 per annum. This under-developnment
has its ronts in three major factors: (a) the country's long isolation from
the rest of the world, wiich started to end with thii re.iolution against the
traditional Imams in 1962, but in fact was not fully overcome until the end
of the subsequent civil war (1962-70), (b) the paucity of natural resources,
and (c) the critical shortage of educational facilities and of modern tech-
nical and administrative skills.
4.        The Governuiient has successfully introduced' ba.-,ic eel ens cf mdfle)rT
administration in recent years and has sought to overcome the problwes asso-
ciated with a meagre resource base by encouraging emig;rat Lon of Yemenis abroad
and welcoming the inflow of foreign assistance. This pilicy has paid increas-
ing dividends, and workers' remittances and foreign aid and grants (p.articularly
from Saudi Arabia) have increased substantially, partfcularlv over the last two
years. Limitations in YAR's absorptive capacitv are consequently becoming
the main constraint to the rapid acceleration of dev2lopment experiditire::.
The Government is making substantial efforts to step up its development out-
lays, while at the same time building up appropriate institutional structures
and training of people in necessary skills.  Pressure on. available skills is
consequently high, and middle level skills as well as specialized skills have
to be imported from abroad.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Economic Structure, Development Objectives and Constraints
3,.       YAR's economic structure, although changI Tg, still re fIect  i
state of extreme underdevelopment.   Over (O pOr       f ent O  its estImTatet pop L  [onI
of 6.5 million (1975) is engaged in agricultLirQ, largely in subsistence lro--
ductioii.  Internal transport and conmunlcations, tliough expanding, still
le.ive many parts of the countr-y isolated frnm e.ich otlher.  While the main
road system has been rapidly dleveloped and tlre education system is expanded.
the economic and social infrastructure remains largelv under-developedl.
The literacy rate of YAP's population barelv eoreedk 1P percent and modern
administration svstems are still in their infanrv ind face an acute shortago
of qualified and experienced manpower.   Political integration has been
hindered by tribal differences.   The end of the' civil war left the tribal
sheil-.hs in a stronger and more independent posiiioin than before.  'h is
fragmentation of power, combined with the inadleqruac  of r-Istitutiont; and
lac.. of trained cadres at the central government level, has for many years-
hindered the Government's ahility to formulate nationnl economic nbhietJ.ves
and carry out a working program of economic (develoPrnelt. 1lowever. Central
Covernment control has gradually spread in recent VEeaTs and continues to do
so, and the building up of an administrative an,l security framework is Imon,;
the Government's highest priorities.
6.        Despite these constraints, considerabIe plroeress has beeni made in
setting up national economic institutions. With sigtnificant teclhnical
assistance provided by the IMF, the Bank and- the Kuwait Futnd, Yemen established
a Central Bank in 1971, a Central Budget Bureau and a Central Plannfng
Organization in 1972.   Formal budgets were introducerd 1rom 1973/7'i. More-
over, a Three-Year Development Program, covering the periodl of 1073/74-1975/76
was drafted, wqhich defined the general long-term development strategy For YAR
as well as medium-term development policies -or the pulblic sector.   The proj-
ect list contained in the Program is confined to the public sector.
7.        The long-term goals for economic dovetpvm-nt. reflerted in tho
country's Development Program emphasize:    (a) the developmTIent of agricu1tuire
to achieve self-sufficiency in food: (b) the eitpansion of the t.ansPont: -'ed
coTmuinications infrastructure to improve economic and soclal integration:
(c) education and manpower (levelopment to se(tire the needs of Yemen's future
development efforts: and (d) government instit-tion-bmtlIinc it the national
as well as at local levels.   For the Program period, public sector develop-
ment expenditure of about YR 936 million (apvrox.    '2'0 ri'llon) is envli-
saged; of this, 31 percent has been allocated to transport and communications,
21 percent to education and manpower development. 15 percent to agriculture,
and about 10 percent each to industry (including mining), water supply and
sewerage and health and other services.
8.        A basic constraint on development (besides the presently limited
absorptive capacity) is the country's narrow-7 resource base.  In agriculture,
which accounts for about two-thirds of CPP and for virtunll all of the
meagre exports (notably cotton, coffee, and hides and skins), development



-3-
is seriously constrained by physical limitations, particularly the erratic
nature of rainfall and the uncertainty of grourdwater supplies. Food grains
(sorghum, millet, barley and wheat) for local consumption are the principal
crops; only modest quantities of cash crops (cotton, coffee and qat 1/) are
produced. The agriculture sector is predominantly devoted to rainfed grain
production, and mainly as a result of the prolonged drought of 1966-73, has
been meeting a decreasing share of domestic needs. 'Thus, food imports, in
part provided through emergency relief operatiokhs, have grown rapidly from
about US$23 million in 1970 to almost US$96 million in 1974, constituting
about two-fifths of total recorded imports. Abundant rainfall during the
1974/75 crop season resulted in the harvesting of exceptionally large crops
and preliminarv estimates indicate another good harvest during 1975/76; never-
theless, self-sufficiency in agricultural production remains a distant goal.
9.        Yemen has little mineral resources of known commercial value.
Only rock salt has been exploited so far. Unlike most countries of the
Arabian Peninsula, Yemen has no known oil resources, but exploration is
currently under way. Due to the scarcity of natural resources, but alsn
because of the small domestic market, industrv was virtually non-existent
until the late 1960's. Since then a small number of medium-sized, import-
substitution plants have been established, mostly with bilateral assistance.
They include a textile mill, a cement factory, a cigarette factory and other
plants producing light consumer manufactures and construction materials.
Their overall production however, still represents only about 3 percent of GDP.
Future industrial growth will remain limited to these fields and the processing
of agricultural products unless other mineral resources in commercial quanti-
ties are discovered.   Other manufacturing based on rnperted materials is
likely to remain of relatively small significance due mainly to the narrow
domestic market.
Recent Developments
10.       YAR's economy remains heavily based on subsistence agriculture.    But
gradual transformation of the economic structure is under way because of rapid
growth in construction, manufacturing, transport, commerce (particularly trad-
ing and banking) and government services. GDP at constant prices has grown at
about 4 percent a year during 1970-73, with agribultiral output rising irv 1970
and 1971, but declining in 1972 and 1973 due to drought. Estimates for 1974
,nd 1975, suggest a marked upsurge in economic activitv as a result of a large
Increase in agricultural production and the inflow of capital and workers'
remittances. Remittances from workers abroad (largely in Saudi Arabia) and
cash grants from the Saudi Government, in fact, have become by far the largest
sources of foreign exchange. They have enabled the YAR to sustain large
deficits in its balance of trade, and their rapid increase has recently led
to a substantial addition to reserves in 1974 and the first half of 1975
(see paragraphs 12 and 13). Direct budgetary support finances the government
current deficit and the bulk of development outlays (see paragraphs 14-16
below).
1 / A mildly narcotic leaf, chewed by a considerable portion of the male
adult population. In July 1975 the Government levied a new tax of 30%
on sales of qat so as to discourage its production.



-4-
11.       The recent sharp increases in international oil prices have also
affected the YAR--which is almost entirely denendent on imported products. 1/
The adverse effects have, however, been partly cushioned bv an $11 million
interest-free credit from the Organization of Arab Oil Producing Exporting
Countries (OAPEC) (through the Arab Fund) and by a grant from Saudi Arabia
of 50,noo tons of petroleum products in 1974.
12.       Yemen's balance of trade has shown high and widening deficits in
recent years. This has resulted directly from Yemen's increased needs for
essential commodities (particularly oil and foodstuffs) which have had to be
imported at a time of shar-ply rising prices, and the limited nature of its
exports (comprising almost: entirely cotton. coffee, and hides and skins).
The latter, which amount to only 6-7 percent of imports, have grown in recent
years (largelv as a result of improved cotton prices) and amounted to about
$13 million in 1974/75.   Ilowever, imports increased to about $259 million in
1974/75, resulting in a trade deficit of US.8246 million, compared with UIS$180
million in 1973/74. The trade deficit in 1074/75 was financed (as in previous
years) in large part through workers' remittances and minor invisible receipts
(S221 million). Commodity and cash grants received (almost entirely from
Saudi Arabia) amounted to S93 million in 1974/75, and together with net medium
and long-term capital inflows of $47 million in the same period led to an
increase in foreign assets by $115 million.
13.       YAR had previouslv been experiencing small but regular surpluses
in its balance of payments which had led to small increases in its foreign
exchange holdings. The exceptionally large surplus experienced in 1974/75
meant that by June 30, 19,5, the gross foreign exchange reserves of the
Central Bank had risen to $243 millioni. Of this amount, US$189.5 million
represented free reserves, the balance being mainly blocked accounts with
the Central Bank of Egypt.    The free reserves were equivalent to about eight
months of estimated import of goods at the 1974/75 level.
14.       Yenen's budgetarv situation is characterized by persistent deficits
on the current account, because of the small tax base. YAP's aggregate tax
effort remains weak, and the tax/GDP ratio (less than 8 percent) is low.
HIowever, budgetary performance has been slowly improving as indicated by
the higher growth rate of government current revenues compared with current
expenditures over the last five years, except in 1974/75. Current revenues
increased from about $33 million in 1971/72 to about $84 million in 1974/75,
i.e. at an annual rate of 35 percept (substantially higher than the growth
of GDP), while current expenditures increased by about 27 percent per annum
over the same period (to about $105 million in 1974/75). Almost two-thirds
of the absolute increase in revenues was accounted for by higher customs
receipts from increased imports (which now provide almost 60 percent of total
Government revenues). The increase in current spending resulted largely from
higher outlays on defense and security (including cash grants to tribes) which
in 1974/75 claimed 57 percent of the total or about $60 million, and salary
increases for the very low-paid Government civil servants in mid-1974.
1/   Total imports of petroleum products amounted to 165,000 tons in 1974,
valued at about $30 million, and are expected to rise to 200,000 tons
during 1975.



- 5 -
Expenditures for security (including cash grants to tribes) were considered
necessary, given the socio-political situation and the need to strengthen the
central authority while salary increases were necessitated by the need to build
up and retain qualified Government administrative staff. During 1975/76, the
Government expects to continue to restrain current expenditures--the current
deficit is anticipated at about $19 million (compared to $20 million in 1974/75).
These current deficits, together with the largest part of Government develop-
ment expenditures, are expected to be financed (as in the past two years)
through direct Saudi budgetary support. The Government has also changed from
a substantial net borrower in 1973 to a substantial net creditor to the bank-
ing system (see Annex I). With the improved budgetary situation the Govern-
ment has been recently budgeting increased Government support (both for tech-
nical services and project financing) for projects programmed through the
Central Planning Organization (CPO). The Ministry of Finance is also making
direct allocations to economic ministries for some development expenditures
including small projects capable of independent execution.
15.       The rapid increase in the Government's domestic and foreign assets
reflects some Government restraint in increasing current expenditures, and
its desire to husband as much as possible the newlv available resources. It
also reflects however, limitations in YAR's absorptive capacity as indicated
by shortfalls in the Government's planned development outlays.
16.       The experience with regard to executing public development projects
has shown that projects involving a great deal of preparation with institution-
building and training elements faced greater problems than those confined to
physical work or the provision of foreign experts. The Three-Year Development
Program (see paragraph 7 above) had envisaged a total expenditure of $208
million on specific projects over the period 1973/74-1975/76. The time pat-
tern of expenditure was expected to be $57 million in 1973/74, $76 million in
1974/75 and $75 million in 1975/76. Direct foreign contributions were expected
to account for 75 percent of total Program outlays. Available data indicate,
however, that actual expenditures during the first two years, amounted to $34
million (60 percent of planned targets) and $43 million (56 percent of planned
targets) respectively. Government contributions through the budget amounted to
9 percent of total program expenditures. This substantial shortfall is to a
large extent attributable to institutional and manpower constraints.
17.       The next planning exercise to be undertaken by the CPO for the
four-year period 1976/77-1979/80, will provide an appropriate opportunity to
assess the resources (domestic and foreign) likely to be available to the YAR
for development. A comprehensive investment program will be outlined. Appro-
priate criteria for project selection are expected to be framed in order to
bring the number and type of projects better in line with YAR's potential in
institution-building and manpower development. In addition, it is expected
that in conjunction with the inflows of foreign assistance, YAR will increase



- 6 -
its own financial participation in development efforts. by stepping up the
mobilization of internal resources.   Largely domestic resources will also be
needed to meet the rapidly increasing recurrent expenditures associated with
the investment program.
18.       A dilemma facing YAR's planners relates to emigration of Yemenis
abroad. Workers remittances finance to a very large extent (over 80 percent)
the foreign trade deficit, on the other hand such emigration of workers
possessing even marginal skills reduces the country's absorptive capacity.
The only viable solution at present appears to be to expand the supply of
such manpower through rapid development of training institutions. Efforts to
attract some selected skilled people back through special incentives should
also be explored.
External Debt
19.       The major aid donors of the sixties were eastern bloc countries--
USSR, China, the German Democratic Republic and North Korea; these have now
been replaced in importance by Arab states and their development funds and
by the United Nations, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany and the USA.
Foreign assistance received by the YAR is currently on highly concessional
terms (largely due to the cash grants from Saudi Arabia). However, continued
dependence on foreign aid has had a strong impact on YAR's existing external
debt position and debt service obligations. The external public debt out-
standing on June 30, 1975 was estimated at US$409 million, of which US$157
million was undisbursed. The major creditors were: USSR, the People's
Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Kuwait
Fund and more recently, the Association. Debt contracted with IDA accounted
for US$65.3 million or about 16 percent of the total reported debt. The
USSR and the People's Republic of China have provided interest-free loans.
Loans from Germany and the Kuwait Fund have been at interest rates between
1.0 to 2.5 percent per year: other loans carry 4-6 percent interest per
annum. The debt service for 1974/75 was estimated at US$4.6 million, equiv-
alent to 35 percent of total merchandise exports but only to about 2 percent
of total exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances. In
view of the fact that YAR is one of the least developed countries in the
world (as evidenced by its per capita income of about $120 per annum), its
grossly inadequate commodity exports, and the potential instability of workers'
remittances, YAR should continue to seek external loans on concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       The proposed credit would be the ninth to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to US$73.3 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and Bank grants and notes on the execution of on-going projects, as
of December 31, 1975.



- 7--
21.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop thle
essential prerequisites for development: the basic institutions, skills and
physical infrastructure, and to begin lending in the dominant productive
sector--agriculture.   In 1971, the Bank made a grant of USS200,000 to help
finarce, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development, a teanm of
planning and economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of
US$200,000 to make possible the continuation and expansion of the planning
team services, was approved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third
grant of US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a
planning team including those of a maragement/public administration expert.
The Kuwait Fund joined with a grant of about US$425,000. The Bank is also
providing technical assistance for institution building to the Ministrv of
Agriculture through the services of seven advisors, financed by INDP with
the Bank as Executing Agency.
22.       In June 1972, IDA extended a Credit of US$7.7 million equivalent
for a first Highwiav Project.  In May 1973, the Associatior made a US$10.9 mil-
lion Credit for the Tihama Agricultural l)evelopment Project. The Kuwait Fund
is financing $6.0 million of the project costs.    Because of major cost in-
creases incurred under the project, the government has requested supplementary
financing from the Association and the Kuwait Fund. A US$11.0 million Credit
for an Education Project was approved in July 1973.    A US$2.3 million Credit
for an Industrial Estate Project was approved on January 29, 1974. This pro-
ject is designed to help stimulate investment in modern small-scale industry
and provide a model and pattern for future industrial development. On ttie
same date a US$6.25 million Credit for the Sana'a tlater Supply Project was
approved. A US$10.0 million Credit for the Southern Uplands Rural Development
Project was approved on May 6, 1975.   The Abu Dhabi Fund is also providing
510 million for the project. On June 17, 1975, a US$9 million Credit was
approved for a Second Highway Project representing a follow--up to the First
Highway Project with respect to both road construction and technical assistance.
The Kuwait Fund will provide $5 million for this project. On the same date, a
US$8.1 million Credit for the Hlodeida 1Water Supply and Sewerage Project was
approved.  The Arab Fund is contributing US$21 million to finance the sewer-
age component. Project implementation is generally proceeding satisfactorily,
and the Government takes prompt action on the Association's recommendations
on operational matters.
23.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the in-
stittitional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agri-
culture and public utilities and help provide the necessary manpower training;
and continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment
program including special project identification and preparation work. A Grain
Storage and Processing project which would consist of grain storage, credit
facilities for bakeries and regional warehouses has been appraised in November
1975. A livestock project. prepared with the assistance of the Kuwait Fund,
has also been appraised in November 1975. Port development, a fisheries proj-
ect and a sewerage project for Sana'a are still in the planning stage. The
Bank Group's lending strategy recognizes that Yemen is among the poorest of



the 25 least-developed countries and thus requires special assistance, which
justifies IDA financing of a high percentage of project costs, including local
expenditures. Since project costs are in excess of the limited IDA funds
available, efforts have been made to obtain co-financing from other donors.
In addition to its own commitments of US$65.3 million, IDA has also, since
1973, successfullly plaved a catalytic role through its projects in securing
about $56.0 million of co-financing from other aid donors (Arab Fund $21.0
million; Kuwait Fund 510.9 nillion, Abu Dhabi Fund $11.0 million; United Arab
Enmirate-s $8.0 million, U-NDP $4.37 million and the Federal Republic of Germany
S0.58 ni,llion).  YAR's level of poverty and its weak balance of payments
situation has justified in the past a large portion of local currency finan-
cing by the Association; however, YAR has contributed an increasing portion
of local currency financing and is expected to do even more so in the future.
PART 11II - THE EDUCATION SECITOR
BTackz_ound
24.       Formal education was established in YeLpen by decree in 1963, after
the Republican Rlevolution, but effective educational development did not com-
mencF until the end of the Civil War in 1969/70.     Previously, the education
svstem consisted essentially of Koranic schools whose exclusive purpose was
religious and literacy training. The present system is based on a six-year
primary cycle, a three-year lower secondary and a three-year upper secondary
cvcle and up to four years of university education.     Secondary technical edu-
cation and training is offered in one five-year post-primary technical school.
Primary teacher training is provided in three to six-vear programs at secondary
level. Secondary teacher training commenced in 1975 as part of the final two
years of a four-year university program.
25.       The Ministry of Education in cooperation with the Central Planning
Organization has the major responsibility for the planning and administration
of the country's education and training system.     Other ministries perform a
limited training role, generally in conjunction with specific development
projects.
Education System and Constraints
26.       Despite a rapid growth in enrollments ove-r the past few years (about
30 percent p.a. between 1969 and 1973 and 20 percent in 1974), Yemen's educa-
tion svstem is still among the least developed ir the world.     In a country of
more than six million people, in 1973 there were only ahout 14,000 students in
lower and upper secondary schools, less than 2 percent of the relevant age
groups. The equivalent of onily 15 percent of the 6-11 age group were attending
primarv schools, of wfhich only 12 percent were girls. A random sampling sug-
aests that about 70 percent of students may be overaged due to late entry
which varies from about eight years of age in the cities to about eleven years
of age in rural areas. Only about 13 percent of primary schools offer the full



- 9 -
range of grades and about 60 percent of the schools have only three grade
levels or less. Therefore, despite low failure rates, only about 35 percent
of those who enter grade 1 complete grade 4 and only about 20 percent enroll
in grade 6, from which 75 percent progress to the secondary level. Of the
country's 90 schools at secondary level in 1974, only 19 offered upper secondary
programs.
27.       A further shortfall affecting particularly primary education is the
uneven distribution and quality of schools as well as inadequacies in equipment
and educational materials. In the major cities, rooms are overcrowded with
classes of up to 100 pupils and many schools operate on the basis of two and
even three shifts. In rural areas, many schools are unattended because they
lack teachers while in some villages only makeshift shelter from sun and wind
is available. Instruction materials are often virtually non-existent.
28.       Compounding the problem of the narrow educational base is the gen-
erally inadequate quality of the education administration, curriculum devel-
opment and teachling. Only about 20 percent of the staff of the Ministry of
Education have university degrees of which only txvo or three are in disciplines
relatedl to education. The majority of the staff lack secondary school qual-
ifications. The primary school curriculum was revised in 1972, but only
sporadic attempts have been made to rewrite syllabi and textbooks in some
subjects. The curriculum at this level is theoretical and fragmented in too
many subject divisions with insufficient time devoted to developing skills
in literacy and numeracy. Problems arising from the extreme shortage of
teachers, their insufficient educational and training skills, and the almost
complete absence of teaching materials are compounded by the use of textbooks
writter for countries and cultures foreign to Yemen. The curriculum has no
agricultural content and is basically urban-oriented. At the secondary level,
the cuirriculum consists almost exclusively of arts subjects, even in the
science stream at upper secondarv level. The lack of science equipment not
onlv produces a purely theoretical interpretation of content but prevents
students from acquiring basic familiarity with the use of scientific apparatus.
29.       Adult illiteracy is estimated at about 90 percent.    Although a
literacy program was introduced in 1970 with an enrollment of some 4,000
people in 1974/75 (compared with an adult population of 3.3 million), its
success has been limited, mainly because of its formal nature, the lack of
trained personnel and high drop out rates.
Primary and Secondarv Education
30.       As stated above (para. 24), the normal structure of primary educa-
tion is six years. The number of public primary schools increased from 700
in 1969/70 to 1,540 in 1973/74 although most of these are still simple makeshift
shelters. As for teachers, of about 4,000 teaching in public primary schools,
only 1,100 are considered qualified, i.e. some 25 percent of the teaching force.
The large majority of the teachers were considered unqualified since in most
cases they had not completed even primary school education.



-10 -
31.       A major priority of the Governnient is to expand rapidly enrollment
of both boys and girls in primary education. In 1973/74, the equivalent of
about 30 percent of six-year olds entered primary education of whom about
12 percent were girls. Recognizing the importance of basic literacv for
development, the Government aims at increasing the percentage to about 65 per-
cent of six-year olds by 1984 of whom about 30 percent would be girls. The
Government is attempting further to increase participation in primary education
from the equivalent of about 15 percent of the age group in 1973/74 to about
47 percent in 1984/85 as a result of the incrcased intake, improved teaching
methods and improved promotion rates in the first t-hree grades.
32.       At the post-primary level, education is divided into:    (I) a three-
year lower secondarv cvcle offering both general and teacher training courses;
(ii) a three-year upper secondary cycle with (a) general courses with science
or art options in grades 11 and 12, commercial and industrial arts course
options, and (5) teacher training, normally with curricula similar to the
general courses; and (iii) a five-year techinical school program in one school
to train middle-level technicians. The Government expects to expand thke
present two percent of the age group enrolled in secondary education to about
10 percent by 1984/85. Out of about 750 secondary teachers (of which 1 per-
cent were women) in 1973/74. all except teachers of religion were expatriates--
83 percent being Egyptians.
Technical, Vocational and Agricultural Education
33.       Technical education continues to be offered only at the five-year
post-primary technical school in Sana'a (supported by the People's Republic
of China) with an enrollment of 328 students in 1974/75--all of whom were
boarders. An initial group of 30 students graduated in 1975 and all have
assured employment.
34.       Vocational trainirng will be commenced with the establishment of two
vocational training centers under the first IDA education project. The centers
will have an annual intake, of 288 primary school certificate holders into a
two-year full-time program offering six trade specializations. In addition,
the centers will offer part--time courses to upgrade skills of workers already
emploved in industry and services. Due to shortages of skilled manpower, some
international and bilateral agencies initiated their own skill training schemes
in such areas as road maintenance, electricity, water supply, agricultural
machinery, boat building, etc. Appropriate arrangemtents are being made to
coordinate these vocatioral training activities wit:h those included under the
proposed project (see para. 55 below).
35.       Formal agricultural education is not yet availahle in Yemen.    Except
for about 100 technicians trained abroad, the Government has been relying on
expatriate experts provided by various bilateral and international organiza-
tions. A first agricultural secondary school is being built under the first
e(lucation project and the construction of a second school is being considered.
After 1980, the two schools would train about 150 technicians per year which
should help meet the countrv- s manpower needs at this level.   Agricultural



- 11 -
extension services have been established only two years ago. Extension agents
are, however, now being trained under an UNDP/FAO project and the IDA financed
Tihama Agricultural Development Project.
Teacher TraininL
36.       In 1974/75, of the seven primary teacher training institutes--three
for boys and four for girls--only three were not housed in secondary schools.
Courses extended from three to six years following the primary certificate.
Expansion in teacher training has been limited by the shortage of primary
school graduates to fill trainee places outside the three main cities, unwil-
lingness to enter teacher training and high dropout rates due to the attract-
iveness of alternative studies, student dissatisfaction with scholarshlip
payments, lack of boarding facilities, and poor quality of training. Thus, the
output from primarv teacher training institutes in 1974 was only 108 as
against a required output of about 1,500 annually to maintain the annual en--
rollment expansion in primary schools. However, enrollments are expected to
increase now that scholarship payments are being improved and teacher si4lartes
have been raised from a very low base by 120 percent. As a result, an adequiate
number of trainees is expected to enroll in the teacher training institutes
included in the first and the proposed second education project.
37.       In order to alleviate the total reliance on expatriates, training
of Yemeni secondary teachers has commenced this year in temporary acconimtoda-
tions in the University of Sana'a, pending completion of a new Secondary
Teacher Training College being financed under the first education project.
The output of secondary teachers in 1977 is expected tobe 150 and to increase
to about 400 annually by 1985 to meet estimated expansion needs and to replace
expatriate teachers by about 1990, as well as to meet the needs for school
administrators, inspectors and primary teacher trainers.
University Education
38.       The University of Sana'a was established in 1970/71 with all irit-ial
enrollment of 61 students and 15 staff members in the colleges of law, science
and arts. A college of commerce commenced in 1973/74. In 1974/75 total
university enrollment amounted to 1,600 students, with enrollments in science
remaining the lowest of any faculty.   The detailed plaining for the further
expansion of the University is still at an early stage and financially largely
dependent on the State of Kuwait, which has financed all university development
and most recurrent expenses.
Education Finance
39.       Except for some 30 religious schools and three private schools, fi-
nancial responsibility for education rests primarily with the central govern-
ment. Since 1969/70 external aid has financed 80 percent of capital expendi-
tures and 60 percent of recurrent expenditures. There are strong indations
that YAR will continue to receive a high level of external aid, particularly
from Arab oil producing countries, for both capital and recurrent educational



- 12 -
expenditures.  Local commun[ties are playing an increasingly important role
in the provision of primary schools and contributed about 40 percent of ex-
penditures on school construction in 1972/73.
40.       Due to the lack of qualified manpower, the country's capacity for
developing and implementing educational programs is limited. As a result
Yemen is spending only a small portion of its national resources on education.
In 1973/74, public recurrent expenditures on education (about $4.0 million
equivalent) accounted for less than 6 percent of total public recurrent
expenditures, 7 percent of government revenues and onlv one half of one per-
cent of CUP--among the lowest levels in the world.    Taking into account the
recent 120 percent increase in teachers' salaries and increasing expenditures
on teaching materials as well as the projected grovwth in student enrollment,
total expenditures, capital and recurrent, on ecduication are expected to in-
crease from the present level of $14.5 million equivalent or 1.8 percent of
GDP to S94 million equivalent or 6.7 percent of GDPI in 1985. These expendi-
ture targets, while ambitious, could be achieved given the high priority
attached by the Government t:o educational development and given the Govern-
ment's reasonable expectations of a continuing high level of external aid.
41.       To stun up, the major challenges facing the education system in YAR
are the needs for: (a) provision of basic educational opportunities for a
greatly increased proportion of the young age group, with particular refer-
ence to expanding opportunities for girls, (b) improved and expanded teacher
training geared towards basic education and training for primary school
children, including an increased proportion of girls. as well as for adults;
(c) more relevant and practically oriented primary school curricula for the
great majority of students who will complete their formal schooling at that
level; (d) basic education and training for the non-literate adolescent and
adult population, whose employment prospects will continue to be for the
foreseeable future in agriculture and traditional crafts, (e) training of
skilled workers and technicians for the growing modern sector and of qualified
manpower in management and administration for all sectors of the economy; and
(f) strengthening of educational planning and management within more appro-
priate organizational structures.
The First Education Project (Cr. 421-YAR) of July 19, 1973
42.       The project consists of (i) constructing and equipping one second-
ary and three primary teacher training institutes, three upper secondary
schools, two vocational and one agricultural training center, and three non-
formal basic training centers; (ii) equipping of three primary teacher train-
ing institutes, three upper and lower secondary schools; and (iii) establish-
ment of the Project Unit and provision of technical assistance for project
implementation. A key feature of the first project is the establishment of
a UNDP/UNESCO Task Force to advise the Government on the restructuring of the
Ministry of Education and in developing a long-term strategy at all educa-
tional levels.



-- 13 -
43.       The project encountered some initial delays due to difficulties in
recruiting qualified staff for the Project Unit and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force.
All the principal posts in the Project UTnit have, however, now been filled
and of the 24 positions envisaged for the Task Force, nine have now been filled,
including most of the key positions, and the arrival on post of a further seven
experts, whose candidatures have been approved, is expected shortly. The delay
of ahout eight months in project implementation is expected to be reduced sig-
nificantly as a result of measures being taken to expedite completion of de-
signs and educational programs. The Task Force, with the support of short
term consultants, has already prepared proposals for a basic training scheme
which have been agreed upon bv the Government and the Association and the de-
sign of the three basic training centers is proceeding following this scheme.
The design work for all project institutions, with the exception of two upper
secondary schools mentioned below and the preparation of furniture and equip-
ment lists are well advanced.
44.       In accordance with the Credit Agreement for the first project, the
Task Force is presently preparing a study of alternative means of meeting
upper secondary education needs.   In this context, the Government has pro-
posed to substitute two of the three upper secondary schools included in the
project by a technical school and an agricultural secondary school. The Gov-
ernment has forwarded to the Association in late December 1975 a study indicat-
ing the need for a technical school instead of an upper secondary school. The
study is being reviewed by the Association. The Government has also indicated
that a study on the need for substituting another upper secondary school by
an agricultural school is being prepared and will be sent shortly. In the
meantime, and in order to avoid further delays, the Association has agreed to
the start of design work for both the agricultural and technical schools in
question. A proposed new structure for the Ministry of Education has been
prepared by the Task Force for consideration by the Government. The new
structure would include a directorate for primary education and a directorate
for technical and vocational training as required under the current Credit
Agreement. These arrangements are expected to be implemented shortly by the
Government.  The Task force is further working on the preparation of programs
and curricula to be adopted for the project institutions.    In the further
development of the project, the Government and the Association are placing
increased emphasis on ensuring the availability of a sufficient number of
qualified instructors for all project institutions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT'
45.       The project was identified by an IDA reconnaissance mission which
visited the country in April 1975.   The project was prepared by the Ministry
of Education, with assistance by Bank staff, and appraised in May-June 1975.
Negotiations were held in Washington from December 15 to 17, 1975. The Yemen
delegation was lheaded by !fr. Al-Maqdami, Minister of Education, and included
lessrs. Al-Ariki, Al-Shuhari, Al-Kibssi and Shehata. A report entitled "Ap-
praisal of a Second Education Project in the Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 970-
YAR, dated December 31, 1975) is being distributed separately. The main



- 14 -
features of the development credit and project are summarized in Annex III.
A map showing the location of the proposed project institutions is also
attached.
Objectives
46.       The project is designed to complement, strengthen and expand the
reform measures initiated under the first education project through (i) in-
troducing more relevant training programs in primary teacher training insti-
tutes while expanding provision for the training of women teachers; (ii)
reinforcing the development of basic training programs for non-literate
adolescents and adults and extending such training into the villages and
remote rural areas; (iii) expanding vocational training to assist in meeting
the shortage of skilled labor in the countrv   and (iv) raising the quality
of instruction thirough the provision of suitable instructional materials.
In these ways the first and second education projects would help to meet some
of the more pressing basic problems facirg the edtucational system in YAR
(see para 41 above).
Proj4ic _Description
47.       The proposed project consists of:
(a)  the construction, furnishing and equippinR of:
- 2 Primary Teacher Training Institutes for girls;
-- 4 District Training Centers;
-- village-level training facilities to be financed under
a Basic Training Fund;
2 Vocational Training Centers; and
- 1 Educational Materials Production Center.
(b) the equipping of 4 existing Primary Teacher Training Institutes
for boys; and
(c) related technical assistance.
Teacher Training
48.        (a)  For Girls.  The two new primary teacher training institutes for
girls which would each provide 70 boarding places, w.ould replace facilities in
two secondary schools presently used to capacity in double shift operations
not only for secondary education, including teacher training, but also pro-
viding classes from grades 1 through 6. About 260 students would graduate
annually from the two institutes. The curriculum for the institutes will con-
centrate on training in the teaching of numeracy, literacy and such skills
as would be relevant for those girls terminating their formal training in the
primary school.   Hygiene, nutrition and home science will form an important
part of the course content. Further, the role of the teachers outside the
classrooms in education and training of adults will be emphasized. In addi-
tion to the Yemeni director and deputy director, each institute would have



- 15 -
an expert technical advisor provided under the project and teacher trainers
obtained through an ongoing program of assistance from the Arab Republic of
Egypt.  The Goverrnment has agreed that all these staff members would have a
university degree or its equivalent and at least five years teaching expe-
rience (Section 3.05 of the draft Development C1edit Agreement).    In order to
encourage students to become primary school teachers and to retain them after
graduation, the Government has also indicated that students would receive a
scholarship from the Government during training and it has agreed that they
would he required to teach in primary schools for at least five years after
graduation (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       (b)   For Boys.  The four primary teacher training institujtes for
bovs for which equipment would be provided under the proposed project were
built with assistance from Saudi Arabia and will receive students for the
first time in 1975/76. To cater for revised trainirg needs for boys as well
as for girls, the Government has assured the Association that one craft and
one home science room will be provided in each institute (Section 3.03 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Basic Training Program
50.       While making a significant contribution to improving and expanding
the formal education system in the areas of primary teacher and skilled worker
training, the project is expected to have a major impact in extending non-
formal basic training and literacy programs into the villages and small towns.
The major theme of the basic training program is the concept of community self-
help, with grassroots involvement in determining local training needs and in
developing programs and providing facilities to meet such needs.
(a) District Training Centers
51.       Through the establishment of four additional Dtstrict Training
Centers (DTCs) the Association would continue a program begun under the first
educatioll project with the construction of three DTCs to assist the Governmient
in implementing a basic training scheme aimed at providing training and edu-
cation opportunities for the non-literate adolescent and adult population
living in rural areas. The DTCs would have considerable autonomy in deter-
mining training programs, hiring instructors, finance andl procurement.    Each
of the seven DTCs would be staffed with one experienced primary school teacher,
an agricultural extension agent, an expatriate crafts technician and a woman
instructor recruited from the villages to teach home crafts and hygiene.     In
addition, each DTC would have a number of instructors recruited at the village
level and trained through short-term courses at the DTCs. Thus, a minimum
claimii will be made on the country's pool of experienced teachers. Each DTC,
in full operation, would train about 1,300 people per. year in its facilities
and in neighboring public schools. In addition, some 1,500 people would he
trained in 10-12 community/villages in the catchment area of the DTC through
the village level activities. Administration of the scheme would take place
essentially at the district level through a District Council which will be
established for each DTC. At the national level, a National Board chaired



- 16 -
by the Miinister of Education will determine overall policy and exercise over-
all financial control.   The Goveniment has agreed that the National Basic
Training Board and a District Council for each D)TC, whose composition would
be agreeable to the Association, would be establishléd not later than 9 montlhs
and 15 months, respectively, after Credit signing (Section 3.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).   A system of evaluation, including a tracer
system, will be developed by the LUNDP/UJESCO Task Force, with the assistance
of short-term  consultants under the first educationi project, under which the
effectiveness of the basic training activities would be continuously assessed
bv the DTCs and overall evaluation made of the basic training scheme at the
end of two years of operation.
(b) Basic Training Fund
52.       The basic training components of the project, are designed to en-
courage, assist and respond to local initiatives. This would he facilitated
by estahlishing a basic training fund amounting to $1.0 million out of which
simple training facilities in the villages could be financed, e.g. simple
structures, hand tools, benches, and writing materials. Local interest and-S
involvement would he ensured through contribtutions of at least 25 percent of
investment costs in kind.   During negotiations, agreement between the Govern-
ment and the Association has been reached or conditions of disbursement to
and from the fund as spelled out in para. 62 below, and on appropriate audit-
ing aned accounting procedtures for the fund.
53.       Proposals for the basic training fund, which would be a new feature
of IfA--financed education projects, provide a wide measure of flexibility in
locating training programs and facilities in. response to village initiatives
and capacities and determining the type of training which would be financed
in accordance with local needs.   An advance paynent of US$50,000 would be
made to the Fund out of the credit, from whicli disbursements can be made with
the approval of the National Basic Training Board. These would require the
signature of the Minister of Education and the chief exetcutive officer of the
Board or their designated representatives. Logistical support for local
efforts would be provided through the proposed district centers, which would
enhance local identification with project development and execution.
54.       The basic training proposals involve some risks.    There must he some
uncertainty at this stage as to the extent of communitv demand for education
and training, though initial community reaction has been favorable in areas
where development projects are being implemented.    The success of the project
will also be dependent on the quality of trainers, both Yemenis and expatriate
personnel, who may be recruited during the development stage of the scheme
and on a sufficient supply of trainee instructors being available in the
villages.  To minimize these risks, the locations for the pilot village
training centers, while in underdeveloped rural areas, were selected as having
potential for socio-economic development or where development projects were
alreadv proposed. Dependence on expatriate personnel has been reduced to the
maximum extent possible and arrangements for training of Yemeni instructors



- 17 -
have been simplified to take account of the likely level of trainees which
would be available. The additional administrative responsibility proposed
at central level would be minimal and technical assistance is proposed for
the development of an administrative structure at the district level.
Vocational Training Centers
55.       As a continuation of a program begun under the first education proj-
ect, two new vocational training centers will be established in Taiz and Dhamar
which are experiencing increasing industrialization and development. The
proposed centers would provide basic skill training programs of two years
duration in selected trades for youths who have successfully completed primary
school education, and, also further training through part-time evening courses
for upgrading skills of workers. In order to coordinate the skill training
plans and activities of all ministries dealing with vocational training, the
Government has agreed that a Vocational Training Board would be established
under the Central Planning Organization not later than October 31, 1976
(Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Expatriate
specialists would be recruited initially as instructors under the technical
assistance component of the project. To ensure that qualified Yemeni instruc-
tors will be employed subsequently, the Government has further agreed that
(i) the pay scales and posts of trade instructors would be comparable with
posts requiring similar qualifications in the competing public sector davelop-
ment organizations, and (ii) that instructors would be recruited in time to
enable them to complete their pre-service training before taking up posts at
the centers (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Materials Production Center
56.       No facilities currently exist in YAR for the production and repro-
duction of audio or visual materials or of models or equipment for use in
schools. The construction of an educational materials production center has,
therefore, been included under the project to (i) design and test prototypes
of educational materials applicable to formal and non-formal programs in YAR;
(ii) produce simple visual, audio and scientific materials; and (iii) assemble,
maintain and repair educational materials and simple scientific equipment.
The center would be constructed in simple facilities based on a study of the
needs for instructional materials as a means of improving the quality of
teaching in formal and non-formal education. The allocation under the pro-
posed credit for the center would enable commencement of the center in simple
facilities but additional financing would be required for its further develop-
ment at a later stage. The Government has agreed that (i) the above study
would be completed within 12 months of signing of the Credit Agreement, and
(ii) proposals for center activities, construction works, furniture and equip-
ment would be submitted for review by the Association within 20 months of
signing of the Credit Agreement (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Technical Assistance
57.       The proposed credit would finance 24-1/2 manyears of technical assis-
tance for the continuance of the present and addition of new staff members for



- 18 -
the project unit, experts for the proposed Materials Production Center and an
educational administration expert for basic training. The Government has re-
quested UNDP to provide financing for technical assistance of 52 manyears for
administration of teacher training institutes, audio-visual, materials produc-
tion, vocational and basic training. UNDP has confirmed that it will provide
financing for these services. In addition, 40 manyears of teacher trainers
are being provided by ongoing programs of bilateral assistance and 74 manyears
of fellowships under an ongoing UNDP program.
Costs and Financing
58.       The total cost of the project net of taxes is estimated at US$11.91
million, of which IUS$7.30 million, or 61 percent, represents the foreign ex-
change costs.  The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would finance 67
percent of total project costs (74 percent of foreign exchange and 57 percent
of local costs). W4ith a proposed US$2.24 million grant, UNDP would finance
the remaining 26 percent of foreign exchange cost and about 7 percent of the
local costs. The Government would finance the balance of US$1.67 million
equivalent or 14 percent of the total costs. Beneficiaries of basic train-
ing schemes would contribute an additional US$0.33 million equivalent in
kind towards the provision of village training facilities.    The Government
has agreed to provide the necessary funds to meet the recurrent expenditures
associated with project investments (Section 4.02 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
59.       The existing Project Unit within the 1-iinistry of Education would be
expanded to supervise the implementation of both the First and the Second
Education Projects, to coordinate activities with other agencies, to train
Yemeni counterparts and to provide liaison with the Association.. The services
of expatriate consultant architects would be required for the design of the
proposed project institutions, other than for the Educational Materials Pro-
duction Center, the design of which would be undertaken by the Project Unit.
The Project Unit would also be responsible for overall supervision of construc-
tion of the project institutions with assistance from the consultant archi-
tects. Consultant architectural firms will be appointed on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 3.10 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). During negotiations, the Government Representatives
indicated that they wish to retain the same consultant architects who prepared
the design works under the first project for works that would be carried out
under the proposed project. No difficulty is foreseen in obtaining suitable
sites for all project institutions and the Government has agreed that title
to all required sites, acceptable to the Association, would be acquired before
construction is scheduled to start (Section 3.14 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding, in. accordance with the
Association's Guidelines for Procurement, except for (i) the construction of
district training centers estimated to cost about $0.8 million, which would
be simple structures located in remote rural areas and thus would not attract
international bidding; (ii) construction of the basic training facilities in
villages estimated to cost about $0.8 million which would normally be pro-
vided through a self-help program; (iii) equipment items or categories of
items costing less than $10,000 which would be included in one miscellaneous
category not exceeding $300,000 for the total project; and (iv) contracts for
furniture or instructional materials costing less than $50,000 each. Contracts
for items (i), (iii) and (iv), and for (ii) where suitable self-help arrange-
ments do not apply, would be awarded on the basis of local procurement proce-
dures acceptable to the Association. There is adequate representation of
foreign equipment manufacturers to provide competitive prices for equipment
items which would be procured on the basis of local procurement procedures.
For items procured under international competitive bidding, local manufacturers
of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of custom duty applicable to competing imports or 15 percent
of c.i.f. price, whichever is lower, and qualified domestic civil works con-
tractors would be also allowed a 7-1/2 percent margin of preference over bid
prices of competing foreign contractors.
61.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:    (i) 100 percent of total
cost of consultant architects' services. technical assistance to be financed
under the Credit and salaries of expatriate personnel attached to Project Unit;
(ii) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported furniture and equipment and
100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured furniture either
procured locally or under international competitive bidding; (iii) 85 percent
of the cost of imported goods locally procured; and (iv) 63 percent of the
cost of civil works.
62.       As for the proposed Basic Training Fund, the Association would make
an initial payment of $50,000 into the fund once it has been confirmed that
the National Basic Training Board and at least one of the DTCs, referred to
in para. 50 above, have been established. Subsequent payients would be made
on a reimbursable basis against submission of appropriate documentation of
the expenditures made.   Disbursements from the find would only be made if
(i) the investment in any single community does not exceed $30,000; (ii) a
detailed training program geared towards the specific needs of the community
involved has been developed; (iii) instructors and adequate funds within the
budget of the DTC are available to meet the recurrent costs of the program;
and (iv) the community has indicated its wish to participate in basic train-
ing programs and where agreement exists on a contribution in-kind by the
community of 25 percent of the cost of the proposed investment. A disburse-
ment schedule for the proposed credit is indicated in Annex III.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUnTORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
the Resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 27, 1976



ANNEX I
Page I of 3
COUNTRY DATA - YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AREA                                  POPULATION                         DENSITY
About 190,000 sq. km                  6.5 million (1975)                 About 34 per sq. km.
Rate of growth : 2.4%
(1965-75)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                                   HEALTH
Crude birth rate       49 per 1,000 (est.)                   Population per physician (1974)
Infant Mortality      160 per 1,000 live births (est.)                       : 26,000
Life expectancy       About 40-45 years (est.)               Population per hospital bed
(1974)             1,600
NUTRITION                                                    Widespread endemic and epidemic
diseases, particularly water-
Widespread malnutrition and protein deficiency,               borne diseases (bilharzia,
especially among children                                   worm diseases)
EDUCATION
Literacy rate                     About 10 percent
Primary school enrollment         228,000 (1974/75)
Secondary school enrollment        16,600 (1974/75)
1/
GNP PER CAPITA IN   1974    $120
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE (1973 est.)     GDP in US$ Million!/ GDP Percent    % of Labor Force
Agriculture                                   487                66            80-85
Industry                                        23                3          About 1
Services                                      233                31            14-19
TOTAL              743               100              100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR    Million)                     Actual                   Budget Estimate
70/71   71/72    72/73   73/74    74/75   74/75    -75/76
Current revenues                        98      151     199     277      381     341       486
Current expenditures                   171      228     272      323     472     437       571
Current balance                        -73       77     -73              -91     -96       -85
Capital expenditures                    83       56      57      139     239     372       425
(Expenditure financed by
external loans)3/                (83)    (56)     (57)   (126)    (170)   (277)     (237)
(Budget capital expenditure)          (--)     (--)    (--)     (13)    (69)     (95)    (188)
Overall balance                        156     -133    -130     -185    -330    -468      -510
Domestic financing                      37      -38      13      -32    -231     n.a       n.a
External financing                     119      171     117      250     603     n.a       n.a
(Commodity and Project loans)         (83)     (56)    (57)    (126)   (170)   (277)     (237)
(Cash loans)                          (36)     (59)     (1)     (15)    (44)   (n.a)     (n.a)
(Cash grants)                        (n.a)     (56)    (59)    (109)   (389)   (n.a)     (n.a)
Discrepancy                                      -       -       -32     -42       -        -
1/  World Bank Atlas Methodology
2/ 1972 Constant Prices
3/ For 1970/71-1973/74 disbursements as recorded by the Central Bank. For 1974/75
and 1975/76 Central Planning Organization estimates have been used.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
MONEY AND CREDIT (YR million, end of period)
1971    1972     1973    1974   June 1973  June 1974   June 1975
Money supplv                276.9   402.3    531.8   707.9     471.3       612.0      959.5
Quasi money                  35.7    80.6    105.1   151.0     113.6       117.5      180.7
Credit to private sector     70.0   119.8   169.5    260.5     168.6       230.1      376.5
Net claims on Government    110.1   115.9    135.2   -17.6     116.2        84.2     -147.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
July 1972/  July 1973/   July 1974
1970   1971    1972   1973   1974  June 1973    June 1974   June 1975
Exports                       5.8    6.4    6.8     8.8   11.6       7.4         13.8        12.9
Imports                      88.4   72.3  102.4   155.0  230.9    -118.9       -194.2       258.5
Balance of trade            -82.6  -65.9  -95.6 -146.2 -219.3     -111.5       -180.4      -245.6
Services and workers'
remittances (net)          45.0   47.2   81,0   108.5  158.9      97.8        130.8       220.5
Commodity and cash grants    17.7    5.7    18.8   23.2   60.9      14.0         30.9        93.0
Balance in current account -19.9   -13.0     4.2  -14.5    0.5       0.3        -18.7        67.9
Non-monetary capital   1/    29.9   29.6    22.5   31.4   63.5      20.4         45.1        47.2
Increase in reserves         10.0   16.6   26.7    16.9   64.0      20.7         26.4       115.1
Of which with Central
Bank of Yemen              (6.2) (14.1) (20.1) (16.9) (69.4)     (17.4)       (33.9)       (98.8)
TOTAL RESERVES (June 30, 1975)   - US $189.5 Million 21
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (recorded for 1969-74)    3/
Average US$ Million                Percent
Cotton                               2.6                          41.0
Coffee                               1.4                          22.0
Hides and skins                      0.7                          11.0
Qat                                  0.4                           6.0
Others                               1.3                          20.0
TOTAL                              6.4                         100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1975)                     US$ Million
External public debt outstanding                     408.7
Of which:  disbursed                               252.0
Debt service payments - 1974/75                        4.6
Ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and non-factor services 1974/75            35.0
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
services (including Workers' Remittances)
1974/75                                          2.0
i/ Includes SDR allocations and errors and omissions.
2/   Excluding $53.9 million  in blocked accounts with Central Bank of Egypt
3/ Only an estimated 50-60 percent of total export is recorded.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
RATE OF EXCHANGE    1/                IBRD/IDA LENDING
(as of   December 31, 1975)
Through February 1973
US$1 = YR 5                                                           US$ Millioni
YR 1 = US$ 0.20                                                     IBRD        IDA
Outstanding and disbursed         -          972
Undisbursed                                 56.1
Since February 1973                   Outstanding including
undisbursed                     -        65.3
US$1 = YR 4.50
YR 1 = US$ 0.22
January 27, 1976
L/  No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IMF.       All exchange
transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate whichi has been pegged to the US
dollar since February, 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of December 31, 1975 - US$ Million)
Credit                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Number Year        Borrower         Purpose          IDA             Undisbursed
315    1972 Yemen Arab Republic    Highways          7.7                4.2
376    1973 Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agri-     10.9                6.5
culture
421    1973 Yemen Arab Republic    Education        11.0               10.6
464    1974 Yemen Arab Republic    Water Supply      6.3                5.5
465    1974  Yemen Arab Republic   Industrial Estate 2.3                2.2
545    1975 Yemen Arab Republic    Rural Develop-
ment         10.0               10.0
558    1975 Yemen Arab Republic    Highways          9.0                9.0
559    1975 Yemen Arab Republic    Water Supply
and Sewerage      8.1                8.1
Total                                      65.3               56.1
Of which has been repaid                     -                  -
Total now held by IDA                      65.3
Total undisbursed                                             56.1
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1975)
IFC has made no investments in YAR.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team of
five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and active
public sector organization in Yemen. The Executive Directors approved on
September 11, 1973 a Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make possible the
continuation of the planning team. In January 1976, the Bank approved a
third grant of US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of
a planning team including those of a management/public administration ex-
pert. The Kuwait Fund also joined with a grant of about US$425,000.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
D. Projects in Execution -
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; US$7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972: Effectiveness
Date: January 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project aris-
ing from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the Borrower
has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road construc-
tion; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfactorily.
New consultants for the technical assistance component of the project have
been appointed. Most of the road and engineerine equipment included in the
project has been delivered.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end
of 1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed de-
signs of six contracts, which have been awarded to local contractors. En-
gineering designs and contract documents for the first of the two main civil
works contracts were recently completed, tendered internationally, and awarded;
documents for the second are due for issue by March 1976. The Agricultural
Credit Fund (ACF) was legally established towards end of 1974. The Credit
Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF have been appointed. However,
performances of the ACF are still slow and measures to improve its effective-
ness are under consideration. The overall progress of the project remains
about 18 months behind schedule. The total cost of the Project is now es-
timated at $40.8 million compared with $17.5 million at the time of initial
appraisal. The Government asked the Association and the Kuwait Fund for
additional financing and a reappraisal mission visited Yemen in September
1975. The Association is considering a supplementary credit of about $10
million. The Kuwait Fund approved on December 31, 1975 a supplementary loan
of KD 2.8 million for the project.
CR. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The status of this project is described in paragraphs 42-44 of this
report.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project executions.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
CR. No. 464-YAR - Water Supply Project:    US$6.25 million Credit of M,arch 4_
1974  Effectiveness Date:   July 15, 1974_Closing Date:     June 10, 1978.
Contracts for all works under the project except for the drilling of
wells lhave been awarded and construction work has already begun.     Good prog-
ress has been made in recruiting staff for the newly-established NWSA and for
oDerating the existing Sana'a water facilities. To meet the cost overruns of
about $3.5 million for this project the Government has already deposited the
equivalent amount with NWSA. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Proj._ct, US$2.3 million Credit of March 4
1974: Effectiveness Date: November 27 1974i Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October as
scheduled.   The lowest bids was for more thani double the appraisal estimate
which had been prepared in early 1973.    This high cost is due to the unexpected
increase in building costs that has taken place since project appraisal.      In
the light of this cost increase the Industrial Estate Development Authority
has agreed to proceed at this stage with the development of the site and the
construction of three factory buildings instead of seven as originally envi-
saged. Works are expected to start in February 1976.
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Developmeent Project; US$10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975_ Effectiveness Date:    January_27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The Development Credit was approved on May 6, 1975 and signed on
May 13, 1975.
Cr. No. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; US$9.0 rnillion of June 20, 19_75;
Effectiveness Date:   January 27   1976; Closin   Date: December 31    1978.
The Development Credit was approved on June 17, 1975 and signed on
June 20, 1975.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerae ProjLect; IUS$8.1 million
of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was approved on June 17, 1975 and signed on
June 20, 1975.
EMIDA
January 27, 1976



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Yemen Arab Republic.
Amount:                   US$8.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                    Standard.
Project Description:      The proposed project would strengthen and expand
the reform measures initiated under the first
education project through (i) introducing more
relevant training programs in primary teacher
training institutes while expanding provision for
the training of women teachers; (ii) reinforcing
the development of basic training programs for
non-literate adolescents and adults and extending
such training into the villages and remote ru.al
areas; (iii) expanding the vocational training to
assist in meeting the shortage of skilled labor
in the country; and (iv) raising the quality of
instruction through the provision of suitable
instructional materials. Specifically, the
proceeds of the IDA Credit would help finance
the following:
(a) constructing, furnishing and equipping:
- 2 Primary Teacher Training Institutes for
girls;
- 4 District Training Centers;
- village-level training facilities to be
financed under a Basic Training Fund;
- 2 Vocational Training Centers and
- 1 Educational Materials Production Center.
(b) equipping 4 existing Primary Teacher Training
Institutes for boys; and
(c) related technical assistance.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Costs:                                             US$ Million 
Local     oreign    Total
1.   Construction and Equipment
2 Primarv Teacher Training Institutes
for girls                                     .55        .56      1.11
2 Vocational Training Centers                    .91      1.12       2.03
4 District Training Centers                      .53       .64       1.17
Basic Training Fund (villLage-level
facilities)                                    .34       .66      1.00
Educational Materials Production Center          .15       .28        .43
2.   Equipment Only
4 Primarv Teacher Training Institutes
for Boys                                       .03       .26        .29
3.   Consultant Architectst Fees                        .04        .15       .19
4.   Project Administration                             .41        .13       .54
5.   Technical Assistance                               .27       1.52      1.79
TOTAL Project Cost (excluding
Contingencies)                        3.23       5.32      8.55
6.   Contingencies (physical and price)                1.38       1.98      3.36
TOTAL Project Cost (including
contingencies)                        4.61       7.30     11.91
Financing Plan:                                            - US$ Million ------
Local    Foreein    Total
IDA Credit                                        2.60      5.40       8.00
UNDP                                              0.34      1.90       2.24
Covernment                                        1.67       -         1.67
TOTAL                                       4.61       7.30      11.91
Estimated Disbursements:                1976     1977    1978     1979    1980
US$ million (per FY)               0.02    0.48     3.00    4.00     0.50
Total Accumulated                  0.02    0.50     3.50    7.50     8.00
*    Beneficiaries of basic training schemes would contribute an additional
US$0.33 million equivalent: in kind towards the provision of village
training facilities.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement              Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
Arrangements:            would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in accordance with the Association's
guidelines for procurement, except for (i) the con-
struction of district training centers estimated to
cost $0.8 million, which would be simple structures
located in remote rural areas and thus would not
attract international bidding; (ii) construction of
the basic training facilities in villages estimated
to cost $0.8 million which would normally be pro-
vided through a self-help program; (iii) equipment
items or categories of items costing less than $10,000
which would be included in one miscellaneous category
not exceeding $300,000 for the total project; and (iv)
contracts for furniture or instructional materials
costing less than $50,000 each. Contracts for items
(i), (iii) and (iv), and for (ii) where suitable self-
help arrangements do not apply, would be awarded on
the basis of local procurement procedures acceptable
to the Association. There is adequate representation
of foreign equipment manufacturers to provide compet-
itive prices for equipment items which would be pro-
cured on the basis of local procurement procedures.
For items procured under international competitive
bidding, local manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a margin of preference equal
to the existing rate of custom duty applicable to
competing imports or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever
is lower, and qualified domestic civil works contrac-
tors would be also allowed a 7-1/2% margin of pre-
ference over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Consultants:              A consultant firm would be employed to prepare the
architectural designs for the project institutions
and would also assist the Project Unit in supervision
of construction (about 35 man-months).
Appraisal Report:         "Appraisal Report of a Second Education Project,
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 970-YAR), dated
December 31, 1975.
EMIDA
January 27, 1976






I BR D-11894
e                                u|                                   YEMEN    ARAB REPUBLIC
srZrrcLOA-Als E. j)'     'S A U D I                   A R A B I A                SECOND           EDUCATION            PROJECT
\ Prieray Teacher Training Institutes for Gil!s
ciaror SAUDI AB   1              obfrania                                  0     Primairy Teacher Tro ning InstFtoees for Boys|Eqripr,ent only)
I                        N.                 *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Training Centers
-T                                                                              A      Vocational Training Centers
sucica        N         '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                        * ~~~~~ Educational MaterIas Production Center
err. or'--   nones       I PPEEPOFLF tSEDV   /  \  (  L  . ,                        Paoed Roods
T                            - .r.\                                                      P-ved Roads under construction
ET. .   ir                                           '-'Other Roads
/ot                                                    @ ETH DE A \ SDMALIA   t∞  (  rJ S  0  0   S)   (3  National Copital
D   A    H                        0      Cities, loans and Vdiloges
..d.6  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~~>SO          Conro,ri ,n Metes
\  % >\  ) ( ∞T  gS  <  /             +     Intemnatonol Airporis
Provincial Boondories
Ba         >         / / S ob rltInternathonol Boundaries
0
X ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              2--@O O                8_
-                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KrLOMETEOBS
LA.;,.( 0.n'^ 0'
IS 0DEIe<                               ..           A< 
aI m A 9       A                                         I
C-~~~~~~~4
PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRAT IC   REPUBLIC   OP   YEMEN
b -\ C                  AL \\Y t (*3/ADEN
/.\      /                                                GULF         OF      A DEN
/. 
F. T. A. I.
/   1llr /f  /Jbr  /1Ev. ..R/ 11:as l].r  /44'                                                             4



