CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 611-YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Education Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 13, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1976, between YEMEN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
S


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "District Training Centers" means the centers to be estab-
lished by the Borrower in agreement with the Association pursuant
to Part A(1)(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) "Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls" means
the institutes to be established under Part A(1)(a) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
(c) "Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Boys" means the
four existing primary teacher training institutes of the Borrower.
(d) "Primary Teacher Training Institutes" means the insti-
tutes referred to in Section 1.02(b) and Section 1.02(c) respec-
tively of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(e) "The Project Unit" means the project implementation unit
established under Section 3.02 of Development Credit Agreement
(Education Project) No. 421 YAR dated July 19, 1973 between the
Borrower and the Association, as expanded and modified for the
purposes of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
(f) "Task Force" means the Task Force established under Sec-
tion 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement referred to in Sec-
tion 1.02(e) of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15, and August 15 commencing February 15, 1986, and ending
August 15, 2025, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate technical, educational, financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of supervision and coordination of the
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain and
operate the Project Unit with such staff, facilities, powers and
responsibilities as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of financing basic training
facilities under Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall (i) establish or cause to be established at the Yemen
Bank for Reconstruction and Development a Basic Training Fund in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(ii) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices, the operations and financial conditions of said Fund.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to provide one ,craft
and one home science room in each of the Primary Teacher Training
Institutes for Boys.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to ensure that trainee students in the Primary Teacher
Training Institutes shall serve in primary schools for at least
five years after graduation.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to ensure that each teacher trainer in the Primary
Teacher Training Institutes for Girls is a holder of a university
degree (or its equivalent) and has at least five years teaching
experience.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to (a) recruit vocational training instructors for the
vocational training centers within such a reasonable period as to
enable them to complete their pre-service training before taking
up employment and (b) ensure that their pay scales and benefits
are comparable with posts requiring similar qualifications in the
competing public sector organizations.
Section 3.07. (a) For the purposes of overall policy deter-
mination and overall financial control of basic training schemes,
the Borrower shall, not later than 9 months from the date of this
Agreement or such later date as shall be agreed with the Association,
establish a National Basic Training Board under the chairmanship
of the Minister of Education or his representative and with repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Social Affairs, Labor
and Youth, Health, Information and Finance, the Central Planning
Organization and the Federation of Local Development Boards of the
Borrower.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall assign to the National Basic Training
Board a secretariat with the necessary administrative staff which
shall be headed by an educational administrator.
(c) For the purposes of efficient administration and coordi-
nation of basic training facilities the Borrower shall, not later
than 15 months from the date of this Agreement or such later date
as shall be agreed with the Association, establish for each District
Training Center a District Council, representative of the various
interests concerned with the scheme, whose composition and func-
tions shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31,
1976 or such later date as shall be agreed with the Association,
establish a vocational training board under the Borrower's Central
Planning Organization for the purposes of coordinating the skill
training plans and activities of all Ministries dealing with voca-
tional training.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than 12 months
from the date of this Agreement or such later date as shall be
agreed with the Association, complete the study of the (i) educa-
tional material requirements, and (ii) nature, size, staffing and
other requirements of the Educational Materials Production Center.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than 20 months from the
date of this Agreement or such later date as shall be agreed with
the Association, submit to the Association for review proposals
for the activities of the Educational Materials Production Center
and construction, furniture and equipment thereof.


﻿-9-
Section 3.10. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of plans and specifications for the Project, the Borrower
shall employ architectural consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.11. For the purposes of the efficient carrying out
of the Project the Borrower shall utilize the services of such edu-
cational, architectural and engineering experts as provided in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for approval, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire prior to construction, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the     a
Project, and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes re-
lated to the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause to be
operated, each entity and institution under the Project in accord-
ance with sound administrative and educational policies and prac-
tices and with due regard to economy.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment of the educational institutions included in the
Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof to be made; and (ii) establish appro-
priate administrative and financial procedures for the purposes
of such maintenance.
(c) The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities and other resources required for the purposes of subpa-
ragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
r


﻿-12-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 14, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Education of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Education
Ministry of Education
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Ministry of Education
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By        /s/ Ibrahim Al-Kibsi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By        /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 3,020,000         63%
(2) Furniture                     440,000         100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
and 85% of lo-
cally procured
imported goods
(3) Equipment and               2,120,000         100% of foreign
Materials                                    expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
and 85% of lo-
cally procured
imported goods


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Basic Training
Fund
(a) civil works             460,000         63%
(b) furniture                90,000         100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
and 85% of lo-
cally procured
imported goods
(c) equipment and           450,000         100% of foreign
materials                               expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
and 85% of lo-
cally procured
imported goods
(5) Consultant archi-            210,000         100%
tects' Services
(6) Expert services un-          800,000         100%
der Part A of Sched-
ule 6 to this Agree-
ment
(7) Unallocated                  410,000
TOTAL       8,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases
or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount


﻿- 18 -
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agree,d percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percent-
age then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   (1) Design, construction, provision of furniture,
equipment and materials for:
(a) 2 Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls.
(b) 4 District Training Centers.
(c) 2 Vocational Training Centers.
(d) An Educational Materials Production Center.
(2) Provision of equipment for 4 existing Primary
Teacher Training Institutes for Boys at Ibb,
Dhamar, Saada and Beiyda.
Part B:   Establishment of village-level basic training facilities.
Part C:   Fellowship Program:
(1) About 22 man-years of fellowships in teacher train-
ing and administration of teacher training insti-
tutes.
(2) About 15-1/2 man-years of fellowships in audio-
visual and science materials production.


﻿- 20 -
(3) About 32 man-years of fellowships in vocational
training.
(4) About 4-1/2 man-years of fellowships in basic train-
ing education.
Part D:   The carrying out of studies and submission of proposals
for the construction, activities, furniture and equip-
ment of the Education Materials Production Center.
The specific institutions included in Part A of the Project,
their location and planned capacity and the appropriate areas
to be constructed for each institution are set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1980.


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Education Institutions
Estimated
Estimated         Additional        Area (m2)
Student       Boarding Housing        New
Institution                  Location   Places         Places   Units     Construction
Primary Teacher Training
Institutes for Girls (2)    Taiz         280            70       1          2,100
Hodeida      280            70       1         2,100
District Training Centers
(4)                         Saada        175             -       1          1,116
Beiyda       175             -       1         1,116
Hajja        175             -       1         1,116
Zabid        175             -       1         1,116
Village Training Facilities     *        3,750            -       -            *
Vocational Training Centers
(2)                         Taiz         320            96       1          4,844
Dhamar       160            50       1         2,441
Primary Teacher Training
Institutes for Boys (4)      Ibb         270             -       -            -
Dhamar       270             -       -           -
Saada        270             -      -            -
Beiyda       270             -       -           -
*    To be specified as needs are determined.


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.2, A.3, A.4 and A.5 hereof,
contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (herein-
after called the Guidelines), on the basis of international compet-
itive bidding.
2.   Civil works for the construction of District Training Centers
included in Part A(1)(b) of the Project may, whenever possible, be
carried out with local materials on the basis of local procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.   Civil works for the construction of village basic training
facilities included in Part B of the Project may be carried out
under self-help arrangements acceptable to the Association, or,
if such arrangements are not feasible, on the basis of local pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.
4.   Contracts for furniture estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $50,000 may be awarded on the basis of local procedures
acceptable to the Association, including but not limited to the
solicitation of price quotations from not less than three suppliers.


﻿- 23 -
5.   (a) Items or categories of items of furniture, equipment and
materials costing less than the equivalent of $10,000 shall be in-
cluded in one miscellaneous category the amount of which shall not
exceed the equivalent of $300,000, for the whole Project.
(b) With respect to any contract for furniture, equipment
and materials included in said miscellaneous category procurement
may be in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, including but not limited to the solicitation of price
quotations from not less than three suppliers.
6.   With respect to contracts for procurement of furniture, equip-
ment and materials:
(a) to the extent practicable, contract- shall be grouped in
packages to encourage competition and permit bulk procurement.
(b) before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the
Association for its approval lists of all items of furniture, equip-
ment and materials showing the proposed grouping thereof, the spec-
ifications and the estimated unit price of each item and the esti-
mated total price of each category of items. The lists shall identify
only those items or categories of items costing more than the equi-
valent of $10,000. Identified items shall be indexed, coded and
numbered for identification with the educational institutions,
courses and space for which they are required.
(c) bidding documents shall specify that bidders for items
to be procured under international competitive bidding must bid
for at least 60%, or such other percentage as shall be agreed with


﻿- 24                                      9
the Association, of each package, and that the Borrower may make
awards for less than one package if judged more economical.
(d) procurement shall be limited to: (i) those items specified
in the agreed lists mentioned in Part A.6(b) hereof and identified
in contract documents by such indices, codes and numbers as appear
in such lists; and (ii) the amount approved in the miscellaneous
category in Part A.5(a) hereof.
(e) promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract
has been a-aarded, the Borrower shall: (i) inform the Association
through the Project Unit Director that the goods contracted for
are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the
list approved by the Association under Part A.6(b) hereof, or that
they form part of the miscellaneous category in Part A.5(a) hereof.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the fol-
lowing provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Yemen
Arab Republic if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Yemen Arab Republic equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid pr.ce of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Yemen Arab Republic.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on


﻿- 26 -
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from gro,p C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category I of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the fol-
lowing provisions:


﻿-27 -
(a) Contractors shall be required to submit together with
their bids, such information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classifi-
cation established by the Borrower and accepted by the Association,
a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic pref-
erence. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference
and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison
of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrow-
er, responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)       bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii)      bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and for procurement of
furniture, equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:


﻿- 28 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the bids received and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
(d) The Borrower shall submit to the Association any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of more than 10%
of the contract price together with a statement of the reasons for
the proposed change.


﻿- 29 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 4
Basic Training Fund
A.   Withdrawals from the Credit Account under Category 4 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement shall be in accordance with the following:
1.   The Borrower shall withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Basic Training Fund an initial amount in the cur-
rency of the Borrower not exceeding $50,000 after evidence satis-
factory to the Association has been provided to the Association
that the National Basic Training Board and at least one of the
District Councils referred to in Section 3.07(c) of this Agreement
have been established.
2.   Subsequent withdrawals shall be made on application by
the Borrower for reimbursement to the Basic Training Fund of ex-
penditures already made by said Fund, supported by details of loca-
tions, programs and facilities for which expenditures have been
made, together with copies of contracts for furniture, equipment
and construction and appropriate receipts and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request.
B.   1.   Disbursements from the Fund shall be approved by the
National Basic Training Board and shall require the signatures
of the Minister of Education or his designated representative
and the educational administrator referred to in Section 3.07(b)
of this Agreement or his designated alternate.
Ut


﻿- 31 -
2.   Disbursements shall be made to the Directors of the
District Training Centers on the following conditions:
(a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, invest-
ment in any single community facility shall not exceed $30,000
in the aggregate, of which not more than $15,000 shall be for con-
struction, not more than $12,000 shall be for equipment and not
more than $3,000 for furniture.
(b) Proposals for financing a training scheme shall be sub-
mitted by the Director of the appropriate District Training Center
to the National Basic Training Board and shall be subject to the
following conditions:
i         each proposal shall be supported by a detailed
description of the training scheme and of the
construction, furniture and equipment required
therefor;
(ii)      confirmation is obtained that an instructor
shall be available for each training scheme;
and
(iii)     adequate funds shall be available from the
budget of the appropriate District Training
Center to meet recurrent costs of the training
scheme.


﻿- 32 -
(c) No proposal for financing a training scheme shall be
approved by the National Basic Training Board unless:
(i)       a community council has been established in the
community in which the scheme is to be set up; and
(ii)      the community in which the scheme is to be set up
has agreed to make a contribution in kind amounting
to at least 25% of the cost of the scheme.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
The Project Unit
1.   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Project Unit shall have such responsibilities and powers
as may be necessary or incidental to the proper execution and super-
vision of the Project and, in particular, the following responsibil-
ities and powers:
(a) coordination of all activities under the Project with
the appropriate government agencies and with private, national,
bilateral and multilateral agencies involved in the Project or in
other related education programs;
(b) arrangements for selection, briefing, coordination and
supervision of architectural consultants provided for in Section
3.10 of this Agreement;
(c) arrangements for the review and approval of the reports,
specifications and other material submitted by the architects and
other specialists;
(d) administration of agreements with such architects, spec-
ialists and contractors;
(e) preparation of master lists of furniture and equipment
required for the Project;


﻿- 34-
(f) preparation of bidding documents, the evaluation of bids
and making recommendations for the award of contracts for civil
works and the procurement of furniture and equipment;
(g) periodic inspection of all construction work;
(h) maintenance of records, including financial records of
the execution of the Project, and the preparation of interim eval-
uation and quarterly progress reports to the Association;
(i) preparation, with the help of the architectural consul-
tants and related specialists, of a comprehensive implementation
schedule for setting down the planned timetable of coordinated
activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all
aspects of the Project will be based;
(j) training of counterparts by all expatriate personnel;
(k) assisting in the reorganization of the Building Unit in
the Ministry of Education;
(1) assisting in establishing and conducting training pro-
grams for site supervisors, with special regard to the needs for
site supervisors for the Project institutions;
(M) assisting the Director and staff of the District Training
Centers in providing technical advice to appropriate community
groups on construction of basic training facilities under the
Project;


﻿- 35 -
(n) preparation of design and bid documents for the Educa-
tional Materials Production Center and seeking bids for and subse-
quent supervision of construction of the Center;
(o) supervision of construction and arrangements for hand-
over of all other project institutions.
(p) the preparation for submission to the Association of
applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account; and
(q) the necessary advice and assistance in close collaboration
with the Task Force on the educational needs of the institutions
included in the Project.
2.   The Project Unit shall include the following principal offic-
ers, acceptable to the Association and appointed on a full-time
basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(a) a Project Unit Director who shall, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, be an architect and who shall be di-
rectly responsible to the Minister of Education. The Project Unit
Director shall have overall responsibility for the direction and
supervision of the Project Unit's work;
(b) a project engineer;
(c) a quantity surveyor;
(d) a procurement specialist;*
*    will also serve on a part-time basis in the secretariat of
the National Basic Training Board.
I


﻿- 36 -
(e) an accountant;*
(f) an architect;
(g) a draftsman;
(h) junior engineer; and
(i) engineering draftsman.
3.   The Project Unit will also be provided with technical, ac-
counting, secretarial and other staff and with the necessary office
space, furniture and equipment, as may be required for the effi-
cient and proper discharge of the Project Unit's responsibilities.
will also serve on a part-time basis in the secretariat of
the National Basic Training Board.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 6
Expert Services
A.   Financed out of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   For the Project Unit about 8 man/years of architectual ser-
vices, about 8 man/years of engineering services, about 2 man/
years of quantity surveyor services, 2 man/years of accountant
services and 2 man/years of procurement specialist services.
2.   One-half man/year consultant services for the study of the
Education Materials Production Center.
3.   Two man/years of education administration services for the
Basic Training Fund.
B.   Financed by the Borrower from other Sources
Number of Number of Sources of
Institutions                   Experts   Man/years    Finance
1.   Teacher Training       (i)       20         40      Bilateral
Programme
(ii)       2          4      UNDP
2.   District Training                 8         16      UNDP
Centers
3.   Vocational Training              14         28      UNDP
4.   Education Materials               2          4      UNDP
Production Center


