Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18073
IMPLEMENTATI]ON COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4177-RO)
June 26, 1998
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional OfFice
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. It's contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =  Leu (plural Lei)
Lei per US Dollar
January 1997      4963
June 1997      7172
December 1997       7960
Average 1997      7168
January 1998      8293
May 1998        8400
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
ASAL        Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loan
ESPP        Employment and Social Protection Project
EU        European Union
FESAL        Financial Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOR        Government of Romania
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstructioni and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IMF        International Monetary Fund
MIG        Minimum Income Guarantee
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOLSP         Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NBR        National Baank of Romania
NGO         Non-Governmental Organizationis
SPAL        Social Protection Adjustment Loan
Vice President          Johannes Linn
Acting Country Director       Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director         Christopher Lovelace
Program Team Leader   John Innes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA: SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4177-RO)
Table of Contents
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA: SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4177-RO)
Tabile of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................................i
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND.l
B. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 1997 ...................................
C ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.                                       2
D   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD                                                  7
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                  7
F   BANK PERFORMANCE                                                       7
G BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                                    8
H ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED.                          8
1.  FUTURE OPERATIONS                                                      9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..................................................... 11
Table I   Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2     Related Bank Loans.                                             3
Table 3     Project Timetable.                                             3
Table 4  Loan Disbursements .                                              3
Table 5     Matrix of Objectives and Mlonitoring Indicators .14
Table 6     Status of Legal Covenants ...........................         17
Table 7   Bank Resources: Staff Inpts .17
Table 8   Bank Resources: Missions .18
Appendices:
A.     Government's Contribution to the ICR .1 9
B. Map IBRD 28710 .23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
R13MANIA
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4177-RO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Romanian Social
Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) - Loan 4177-RO, in the amount of US$50.0 million.
The loan was negotiated on May 1, 1997 and approved on June 3, 1997. The loan was
released in a single tranche, and fully disbursed on September 2, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by John Innes, Program Team Leader (ECSHD), assisted by
Richard Florescu, Human Development Specialist (ECCRO). The Country Director was
Mr. Kenneth Lay (ECC05). The Sector Director was Mr. Christopher Lovelace (ECSHD),
and the Social Protection Sector Leader was Mr. Michal Rutkowski (ECSHD)
This report is based on supervision reports and other relevant documents in the project
file, field visits, and interviews with Government officials and Bank staff. The Borrower
prepared its own evaluation of the project execution (summary included as Appendix A)
which was reviewed in detail and commented upon by the Bank. The Borrower reviewed
the draft Bank ICR.



i
IMPLEMENTATICON COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4177-RO)
EVALUATFION SUMMARY
i.    Introduction.  Although the new  Government elected in November 1996
inherited a very difficult economic situation, it expressed its commitment to implement
stringent macrostabilization policies and to move aggressively on structural reforms,
especially in the enterprise, financial, and agricultural sectors.
Measures were implemented to launch Romania on the path to a market economy,
such as: (a) the acceleration of privatization in the industrial and agricultural sectors; (b)
the liquidation of non-viable enterprises; (c) the liberalization of agricultural prices; (d)
the imposition of hard budget constraints; and (e) the adoption of sound financial sector
policies.
In order to implement these measures, the Government requested financial assistance
from the Bank under an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and affirmed its
commitment to implement the program supported by the ongoing Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) which the Bank approved in early in 1996.
These measures were envisaged to come with high social costs in 1997. GDP was
expected to decline by perhaps 3 percent, consumer prices were expected to rise by over
100 percent, and unemployment projections envisaged a sharp increase. Average real
wages were also expected to fall, leading to significant declines in real income for most
of Romania's households.
In order to mitigate possible negative effects of the economic reforms, the
Government of Romania put in place, on an emergency basis, a of set social protection
measures, the implementation of which required financial assistance. Following the
review of the social protection program as proposed by the Government of Romania and
the enactment of the legal framework for its implementation, the Bank approved a SPAL
amounting to US$50 million.
ii.    Project Objectives and Description. The main project objective was to ensure
adequate social protection measures to s'Lapport at the same time the macrostabilization
and structural reform measures being implemented.



ii
As the time constraints did not permit the establishment of new programs, the
project focused on the improvement of the existing cash and in-kind programs for
protecting the poorest and most vulnerable groups in Romania from the negative income
effects of macrostabilization and structural reforms implemented by the Government.
For the implementation of this program, the Government committed an additional
2.1 percent of the GDP to social protection measures in order to finance increased cash
transfers, and substitute for the previous widespread consumer subsidies which were
removed as a result of the economic reform programs. The basic components of the
program were:
a. A significant increase in the universal child allowances directed to all households
with children, and supplemental payments to families with several children on a
progressive scale. The increased universal allocation was implemented in
February 1998.
b. The full indexation to inflation for agricultural pensions.
c. Full indexation to inflation of the real benefit level in the Minimum Income
Guarantee Scheme. The defined benefit level is already below the poverty line,
but that is all that can be provided given the tight budget. The indexation was
intended merely to prevent a further erosion.
d. A broadening of social feeding programs, through adequate budget for and
increased use of existing canteens, as well as the quick establishment of simple
"soup kitchen" programs in areas with a large number of the very poor who may
not be easily reached through income transfer programs.
e. The continuation and possible strengthening of supplemental social protection
schemes administered through the education system, such as special student
scholarships.
f. Temporary income support to the low income earners to buffer the effects of the
elimination of the bread subsidy.
g. Establishment of lifeline rates for electricity, with a very low rate for the first 50
kilowatt-hours per household per month, somewhat higher rates for the next 50
kilowatt-hours, and market rates (equivalent to about 5 cents per kilowatt-hour;
about four times the previous rates) for consumption above 100 kilowatt-hours per
month.
h. Provision of financial support to the workers displaced as a result of the reforms
supported by the FESAL and ASAL, and effective active labor measures to assist
in reintegrating them into the labor market
In addition to these immediate social protection measures, the Government



iii
committed itself to implementing essential structural reform measures, with medium and
longer term effects. These included:
a. An evaluation and subsequent reform of the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme
to improve the coverage and effectiveness of this program.
b. An evaluation and subsequent reform of the entire range of social assistance
benefits (both cash and in-kind), that in conjunction with the reform of the
Minimum Income Guarantee 'Scheme, would result in an efficient and well
targeted social assistance system..
c. The preparation of a new draft Pension Law to tighten eligibility and improve
contribution compliance under the Public Pension Program.
d. The gradual introduction of Private Pension systems in Romania to complement
the Public Pension Program.
e. The introduction of effective social service provision to all judets, to complement
cash benefit systems and provide alternative care systems (instead of
institutionalization) of children. the elderly, the disabled, and other population
groups at risk.
f. The preparation of a long-term poverty alleviation strategy, addressing the deep
poverty which cannot be resolved through economic growth alone.
iii.  Implementation Experience and Results.  The measures envisaged to be
implemented in order to achieve the project objectives were divided into two categories:
(a) measures to be completed before the Board presentation; and (b) follow-up measures
whose implementation had to be monitored after the loan approval.
Before Board approval, the Government of Romania created the legal framework
for these measures to be implemented by passing several ordinances which were further
endorsed by the Parliament as laws. The measures were implemented rapidly, some
retroactively.
At loan closing, as a result of the measures implemented by the end of the year
1997: 5.2 million children received increased allowances; 900,000 families received
supplementary family allowance; 900,Coo agricultural pensioners received substantially
increased pensions; and over 240,000 d,isplaced workers, of whom 75,000 were miners,
benefited from the severance payments program.
iv.   Assessment of Outcomes and Key Lessons Learned. The project outcome is
rated satisfactory, with the agreed activities properly implemented. Although it could not
stop the deterioration of the general living standards of the population, it managed to
prevent a large segment of the population from falling into deep poverty during a period



iv
of weak economic performance.
Two key lessons learned had to do with managing the risks from a quick-
disbursing one tranche loan.
(a)   Disbursement of the whole amount of the loan in one tranche instead of
two or more was recognized as risky since there would be no leverage for follow
up. However, the risk was mitigated by sufficiently front-loading the conditions
of Board presentation and by the demonstrated commitment of the Government in
meeting the conditions of Board presentation. Lesson: A one tranche loan should
not be attempted without these prerequisites.
(b)   Another risk related to weak implementation capacity of the MOLSP , the
main agency of the Government responsible for follow up. In addition, the loan
was for general fiscal and balance of payments support, and was not disbursed to
the MOLSP's budget. However, this risk was mitigated by the fact that the
ongoing ESPP was restructured to support the MOLSP in implementing the SPAL
follow-up actions. The Bank project team put extra emphasis on supervision of
the ESPP to assist the MOLSP in implementing follow-up actions. Lesson: A
one tranche loan involving follow-up after tranche release must also be assured
of the agency's capacity to follow-up.
Given the urgency of protecting the poorest segments of the population, using the
existing programs and structures was the most effective way of bolstering the social
safety net. In particular, using the existing child allowance system and increasing the
supplement for families with more children provided quick assistance to the poor without
setting up overly complex new structures. The lesson here is to keep it simple and as
direct as possible.
v.    Future Operations. Possible future operations that can follow up on this one
will be discussed with the Government during FY99. Expansion and improvement of the
active labor measures started here and in the restructured ESPP could be one area.
Another area could be additional support for the on-going pension reform for which
legislation is now being prepared.



1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The SPAL was the first IBRD-financed adjustment loan in the social protection sector in
Romania. It came after two previous Bank financed projects covering several areas of the labor
market and social protection sectors:
(a) Technical Assistance and Critical Imports (TACI) Loan, which had a small sub-
component aimed at achieving overall understanding of the Romanian labor market and
social protection sector, and developing the principles of the future reforms to be carried
out. As a result of these activities under the TACI loan, two White Papers were prepared
on Social Assistance and on Social ]nsurance (Pensions) which became the basis of the
subsequent reforms that started being implemented in these sectors.
(b) Employment and Social Protection Project (ESPP), which is currently in its third year of
implementation, and which takes over several of the reform recommendations from the
TACI project and aims to prepare the legal framework for their implementation (Public
Pensions Reform and Private Pensions Development, Social Assistance Reform, and the
establishment of modern labor market institutions).
2.    The SPAL preparation started early 1997 immediately after a new Government took
office following the 1996 fall elections, and at a time when the ESPP was lagging behind in its
implementation schedule due mainly to the lack of political will of the previous Government.
3.    While the components of the ESPP and the SPAL appeared to overlap in certain areas,
there was an important difference between them. The ESPP focused on the medium term
institutional capacity building, while the SPAL aimed at the improvement of the existing social
protection tools, in an emergency manner, in order to provide a quick and more efficient support
to the people in need.
B. MACROECONOM[IC PERFORMANCE in 1997
4.    The performance of the Romanian economy in 1997 was poor. Measured GDP declined
by 6.6 percent, mostly as a result of a decline in domestic demand by 8.5 percent, while foreign
demand increased by only 2.3 percent of GDP. GDP per capita declined by 6.3 percent. In US
dollar terms GDP per capita in 1997 was $ 1,545.
5.   Inflation, as measured by the CPI, increased by 151.4 percent from December 1996 to
December 1997, and the annual average inflation was 154.8 percent. The consolidated
government budget deficit was 4 percent of GDP, while the current account deficit of the balance



2
of payments represented 7.1 percent of GDP, despite a real appreciation of the domestic currency
(Leu) against the US dollar by 10 percent.
6.    The gross value added in industry declined by 5 percent and in services by 11.2 percent.
Together, these two sectors account for 70 percent of GDP. Overall gross value added declined
by 7.1 percent. Final consumption declined by 6.4 percent. Gross capital formation declined by
15.9 percent and investments declined by 19 percent, with the ratio of investment to gross value
added in the economy falling from 25 percent in 1996 to 20.8 percent in 1997. The only positive
development was the private sector's share in GDP which increased from 52 percent in 1996 to
58 percent in 1997.
7.    As a result of this performance, unemployment increased to 881,000 unemployed
workers, almost 8.8 percent of the labor force in 1997 as compared with 6.3 percent in 1996.
The number of employees at the end of 1997 stood at 5.1 million, of whom 2.2 million were in
industry (1.9 million in manufacturing) and 0.8 million (8 percent of the labor force and 15.7
percent of the wage earners) were in health, education and public administration. The number of
pensioners increased by about 200,000 in 1997, to a total of 5.6 million. Consequently, the
dependency ratio increased steeply.
8.   UJnder these unfavorable circumstances, overall living standards of the population
declined. The average real net wage decreased by 22.3 percent in 1997 as compared with 1996.
The decline in living standards would have been even more significant if the Government had
not allocated important additional funds, equivalent to almost 2 percent of GDP, to implement
the activities supported by the SPAL. The decline in living standards of the poor would have
been even more drastic than that of the general population were it not for the targeted assistance
such as the supplemental child allowance for larger families, which tend to be poorer.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    The main project objective was to ensure adequate social protection measures, on an
emergency basis, to support at the same time the macrostabilization and structural reform
measures being implemented. This objective was valid during the entire project cycle and it has
been fulfilled satisfactorily. The SPAL objectives were sound, and consistent with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy for Romania (CAS).
10.   Agreed measures, which are summarized in Table 5 (attached), covered five policy areas:
(a) Income Transfer Programs; (b) Direct Transfer Programs; (c) FPension Programs; (d) Labor
Market Measures; and (e) Poverty Alleviation Strategy. They are briefly presented below.
Income Transfer Programs for Vulnerable Groups.
11.   The main objectives of this policy area aimed at the improvement of the existing income
transfers to partially compensate the most vulnerable groups for the immediate costs of
stabilizaltion and structural adjustment. To achieve these objectives the Government focused on



3
two main tools: child allowances and the Minimum Income Guarantee (MIG).
12.   The Child Allowance Program. The new child allowance program was implemented in
two steps by:
(i)  increasing retroactively the existing universal child allowance from  12,000
lei/month in January 1997 to 50,000 lei/month beginning in February 1997. About 5.2
million children received the increased allowance in 1997. In March 1998, the child
allowance was further increased to 65,000 lei/month due to increased inflation.
(ii)  introducing incremental family allowances for families with two or more children,
which were most likely to fall into poverty. These allowances were introduced beginning
in July 1997, and they were differentiated according to the number of children each
family had: 30,000 lei/month for families with two children, 80,000 lei/month for
families with three children and 110,000 lei/month for families with four or more
children. Implementation of this benefit proceeded quickly, taking only three months for
preparation vis-a-vis the Child Allowance Law in 1994 which took twice the time to
implement. As agreed, these benefits were excluded in the calculation of the income
threshold for the Minimum Income Guarantee (MIG) eligibility. No adjustment against
inflation was made to these benefits until now.
13.   The Minimum Income Guarantee. Trhe MIG program is a relatively new means-tested
program put in place in the second half of 1995. The first 18 months of program implementation
revealed several deficiencies which raised concerns regarding the effectiveness of this program in
targeting the people in need, and its popularity among the local government representatives. The
number of MIG beneficiaries decreased significantly in 1996 as compared to 1995 when it was
introduced. As a result, it was agreed during the SPAL preparation that rather than putting too
much emphasis on the MIG program and expanding it in order to reach more beneficiaries, it was
preferable to work on the other existing benefits (e.g., child allowances, unemployment benefits,
or agricultural pensions). It was decided that the MIG program would be thoroughly assessed
and improved if worthwhile, but in the meantime the income thresholds for MIG eligibility
would be adjusted against inflation.
14.   Although the income thresholds for MIG eligibility were adjusted against inflation four
times in 1997 (February, April, July, and November) and once in 1998 (April), the purchasing
power of the MIG benefits diminished by 41 percent (December 1997) as compared with August
1995, which is more than the decrease of the purchasing power recorded for wages (1  percent),
state pensions (20 percent) or agricultural pensions (14 percent).
15.   The assessment surprisingly revealed that the number of MIG beneficiaries continued to
decrease from 322,555 beneficiaries (families) at the end of 1996, to 164,473 beneficiaries
(families) as of the end of 1997. Causes for this significant decrease were:
(i)  the changes made in the eligibility criteria in 1996 (Gov. Decision no. 126);



4
(ii)  the low priority given by some local governments to the financing of the social
programs, in spite of the Prime Minister's written recommendation; and
(iii)  more households exceeding the income threshold for MIG eligibility as a result of
the significant increase of the universal child allowances.
16.   T he situation could have been different if the local governments had given more weight
to the Prime Minister's communication on the MIG program.  Unfortunately, the MIG
assessment revealed that it did not happen, and this downward trend is most likely to continue
since neither the Budget Law for 1998 nor the draft law on the Local Budgets make special
reference to the allocation of funds for social protection activities.
17.   T he MOLSP is planning to draft a new Law on Social Assistance that would clarify the
provisions for the MIG in order to overcome the problems identified by the MIG assessment and
also to aidress other issues for improving the implementation of the MIG by the end of 1998. In
addition, the new Law on Social Assistance will provide a comprehensive framework for all
other social assistance benefits and will provide a basis for a modern and efficient system for
delivery of social assistance benefits.
Direct Transfer Programs
18.   These programs were aimed at strengthening of existing social feeding programs as well
as provicding temporary cash benefits (to replace bread subsidies) and life line rates for electricity.
19.   A. new Law on Social Canteens was passed by the Parliament in December 1997,
updating the legal framework and enabling the local governments to provide funds to NGOs for
the soup kitchen program. This program represented a new approach by the Government in its
fight against increasing poverty, aimed to provide free-of-charge on a first-come-first-served
basis a bowl of soup and a slice of bread to the homeless and other destitute people.
20.   Due to the late approval of this law, the lack of experience in organizing such programs
and the low priority given by the local governments in allocating financial resources to the social
protection programs, the soup kitchen program performed poorly in the winter of 1997/98. The
average number of 32,079 meals per day provided by the social canteens in 1997 was smaller
than the 40,000 meals per day the previous year, and well below the estimated number of
120,000 for 1997.
21.   The cash transfers compensating for the removal of the bread subsidies as well as the
introduction of the life line rates for electricity were properly implemented. The Government
spent 11 5 billion lei in 1997 for cash transfers compensating for the removal of bread subsidies.
22.   The life line rates for electricity introduced in 1997 were reinforced recently by the new
Governmrent when the average price of electricity for household consumption increased
significantly. This policy continued in 1998, when the electricity prices increased again, and the
life line rates were adjusted accordingly.



5
Pension Programs
23.   The Poverty Assessment for Romania identified pensioners, especially those living on
low agricultural pensions, as a group most likely to fall into poverty. Although pensions were
constantly adjusted against inflation in higher proportion than wages, the purchasing power of
the pensioners nonetheless eroded significantly.  In order to address this situation the
Government decided to increase minimum agricultural pensions and subsequently to fully index
them against inflation.
24.   As a result of these measures, the number of agricultural pensioners with pensions below
the ceiling of 50,000 lei/month decreased from 1.3 million in December 1996 to 1.0 million in
December 1997 (under the officially indexed ceiling of 97,550 lei/month). However, if
compared with a ceiling fully indexed against the inflation (125,000 lei/month), almost 1.4
million pensioners would have been under the reference level.
25.   The significant increase of the lower levels of agricultural pensions, plus the regular
adjustments against inflation, led to an increase of the monthly average agricultural pensions in
1997, from 37,182 lei in January to 60,918 lei. in February, and to 86,647 lei in December.
26.   The average agricultural pension kept pace with inflation. However, due to the country's
poor economic performance and due to the linear indexation of the benefits, the pensioners below
the reference level became poorer. Nonetheless, the situation would have been worse had the
minimum agricultural pension not been increased.
27.   The MOLSP's efforts in the pensions system in Romania were focused on the reform of
public pensions and on the development of private pensions system (mandatory contribution and
private management). Careful consideration was given to synchronizing the legislation and
implementation of these two crucial pillars of the pension system. In addition, voluntary
pensions will also be introduced as part of the overall reform.
28.   The Public Pension System. The public pension law has been under preparation since
early 1995. It has been discussed with the social partners and a final draft has been circulated to
the other ministries concerned for their commnents. The new Public Pensions Law was initially
scheduled for submission to the Parliament in September 1997. In order to properly correlate the
legislative processes of the public and private pension systems, the deadline for Parliament
presentation was postponed to mid 1998.
29.   The Private Pension System.  The MOLSP has been exploring the possibility of
introducing a private pensions scheme involving mandatory contributions that would utilize
private sector financial instruments, and would provide good returns and minimal risk with
proper regulation and supervision. This is in line with the recommendations of the Bank's policy
study on multipillar pensions systems, "Aveiting the Old Age Crisis" (Oxford University Press,
1994). Technical Assistance will continue to be provided to the MOLSP, with financial support
from the ESPP loan proceeds.



6
Labor Market Measures
30.   The Labor Redeployment Program (LRP) designed during project preparation provided
both financial support and active labor market measures to the workers displaced as a result of
the eco:nomic restructuring programs supported by the FESAL and ASAL. A legal framework
was enacted by the Government for the implementation of these activities. It included: (i) a
Severance Payment Program; and (ii) an Active Labor Market Measures Program for the workers
collectively displaced. The Government implemented the LRP starting with the severance
package and continuing with the provision of active measures.
31.   The Severance Payment Program was put in place by the Government through two
emergency ordinances: Ordinance No.9/1997 with overall coverage, and Ordinance No. 22/1997
especially designed to cover the mining sector. The first ordinance and its implementation norms
were prepared by the Government, in close coordination with the Bank experts. They were
properly designed and contained provisions for a smooth implementation. Almost 180,000
displaced workers, industrywide, benefited from this program until end of 1997, and 1,783
billion lei were disbursed from the unemployment fund, an estimated 0.71 percent of GDP.
32.   The ordinance regulating severance payments for the workers displaced from the mining
sector was prepared by the Government under pressure from the trade unions. As a result, its
implementation encountered difficulties which the MOLSP made strong efforts to overcome.
The generous provisions in the ordinance created the illusion of quick-and-easy gains among the
miners, and the interest in obtaining these benefits became huge (anecdotal stories mention cases
when miners locked themselves in the mines, and went on hunger strike because they were laid-
off). Almost 75,000 miners applied immediately for the severance payments and received the
benefits by the end of 1997. The cost of the program increased to 1,025 billion lei in only four
months by the end of December 1997. In order to temper the workers' enthusiasm for these
generous benefits and avoid the disruption of the mining sector, the Government later had to
amend the Ordinance.
33.   4ctive Labor Market Measures. Ordinance No.9 /1997 also created the legal framework
for the implementation of a coherent set of active labor market measures (pre-and post-layoff
services) to assist the displaced workers' reintegration into the labor market. The financial
support for the implementation of these measures, almost US$10.5 million, is provided by the
loan proceeds of the on-going ESPP.
34.   Although the LRP program was designed as an emergency tool to provide a quick
response to the rapidly emerging need of the labor market, the Active Labor Market Measures
Prograrm became effective in December 1997. The lengthy and complex processes related to the
preparation of the appropriate legal framework and program guidelines as well as the slow the
tripartite dialogue among the social partners accounted for the delayed effectiveness of the LRP.
35.  Implementation of the first active labor market programs started in districts with highest
unemployment rates (e.g. Hunedoara - mining area of Jiu Valley, Gorj and Neamt). This



7
program component became effective in April 1998. Currently, 13,147 displaced workers are
enrolled in 102 programs in 16 districts, with contracts amounting to US$1,800,000.
Poverty Alleviation Strategy
36.   The National Commission for Poverty Alleviation was established at end of 1997 under
the Presidential chairmanship - an official recognition of the fact that poverty is a real issue in
Romania. The main objectives of this commission are the preparation of a comprehensive
poverty alleviation strategy, the design of the programs aimed at alleviating poverty, and
identification of means to implement these programs.
37.   The start-up activities are being financed by a UNDP grant amounting to USD 0.5
million. A General Secretariat for this Commission was established, but a host agency has not
yet been appointed. Several related studies were completed and endorsed by the Commission. It
is expected that by the end of 1998, the poverty alleviation strategy will be finalized.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
38.   The project was designed as a single tranche operation, upon satisfaction of the Board
conditions. Upon approval by the Board, it became effective within a short time and was fully
disbursed by early September 1997. The MOLSP was the Government agency responsible for
the implementation of the agreed activities, and its performance can be considered satisfactory.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
39.   The SPAL was prepared in a very short period of time, characterized by strong political
support for fast economic and social reforms. By Board presentation, the legal framework
enabling the implementation of all the agreed activities was passed.  The overall project
implementation (follow-up measures) was constantly monitored by the Bank through the
Resident Mission, and financially supported by complementary activities included in the ESPP,
such as pensions reform, active labor market measures and social assistance reforms. The
financial and technical assistance from the ESPP, together with the new legal framework being
developed, provide adequate conditions for sustainability of the program.
F.- BANK ]PERFORMANCE
40.   Bank performance was satisfactory. The fast and dynamic project preparation (three
months) was followed by quick internal processing in the Bank. The Bank's dialogue with the
Government during preparation was intense and required strong commitment on both parts. The
work groups established for the preparation of the project, comprising of Romanian Government
and non-Government experts as well as Bank staff, ensured an enhanced Government ownership
of the project.



8
41.   The majority of the staff that carried out the appraisal also supervised the project,
working closely with the Government experts to ensure the proper design of the legal framework
needed for the implementation of the agreed activities. The intensity of supervision work
provided the necessary momentum for the follow-up activities to be properly implemented in due
time.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. The strong commitment of the Government for
establishing a sound social protection program associated with the structural adjustment
programis, backed-up by solid political will, accounted for the expedient processing of the project
during all its stages. The decision-making process was much improved as compared with the
ongoing ESPP. As a result, the legal framework needed for the proper implementation of the
SPAL was put in place very quickly.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The project outcome is rated satisfactory, with the agreed activities properly
implemented. Although it could not stop the deterioration of the general living standards of the
population, it managed to prevent a large segment of the population from falling into deep
poverty during a period of weak economic performance.
44.   Two key lessons learned had to do with managing the risks from a quick-disbursing one
tranche loan.
(a)   Disbursement of the whole amount of the loan in one tranche instead of two or
mnore was recognized as risky since there would be no leverage for follow up. However,
the risk was mitigated by sufficiently front-loading the conditions of Board presentation
and by the demonstrated commitment of the Government in meeting the conditions of
EBoard presentation. Lesson: A one tranche loan should not he attempted without these
prerequisites.
(lb)   Another risk related to weak implementation capacity of the MOLSP , the main
agency of the Government responsible for follow up. In addition, the loan was for
general fiscal and balance of payments support, and was not disbursed to the MOLSP's
budget. However, this risk was mitigated by the fact that the ongoing ESPP was
restructured to support the MOLSP in implementing the SPAL follow-up actions. The
Bank project team put extra emphasis on supervision of the ESPP to assist the MOLSP in
implementing follow-up actions. Lesson: A one tranche loan involving follow-up qfter
tranche release must also be assured of the agency 's capacity to follow-up.
45    Given the urgency of protecting the poorest segments of the population, using the
existing programs and structures was the most effective way of bolstering the social safety net.



9
In particular, using the existing child allowance system and increasing the supplement for
families with more children provided quictk assistance to the poor without setting up overly
complex new structures. The lesson here is to keep it simple and as direct as possible.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
45.   Possible future operations that can follow up on this one will be discussed with the
Government during FY99. Expansion and improvement of the active labor measures started here
and in the restructured ESPP could be one area. Another area could be additional support for the
on-going pension reform for which legislation is now being prepared.






11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROMANIA
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4177-RO)
PART II: STAT'ISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5:      Matrix of Objectives and Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8:      Bank Resources: Missions



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementaf obj t1Se                  t  Pti 1          Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                  X
Sector policies                   X
Financial objectives                            X
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives                                                               X
Poverty reduction                               X
Gender issues                                                                     X
Other social objectives                         X
Environmental objectives                                                          X
Public sector management                                        X
Private sector development                                                        X
Other (specify)                                                                   x
B. Projectus tah.ab'',y                              j J   l   Uncertain
Sustainability                   X
C. Bank pr                                               Deficient
Identification                                  X
Preparation assistance                          X
AppraisaLl                                      X
Supervision                                     X
D. Borroweree                             Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                     X
Implementation                                  X
Covenant compliance                             X
Operation                                       X
E. Assessmeneitoif w ouco3W Iig)          Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Highly
Unsatisfactory
AssessmeInt of Overall Outcome                    X



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                                     Year of
Name/Number             Purpose-             Approval      Status       Comments
TACI -                                          1991      Completed      Satisfactory
Employment and
Social Protection
component
(Loan 3363- RO)
Employment and                                  1995       Ongoing       Satisfactory
Social Protection
Project
Loan 3849- RO)
Table 3: Piroject Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date
1. Preparation                           01/12 - 02/08/97
2. Appraisal                                04/15/97
3. Negotiations                             05/01/97
4. Board presentation                       06/03/97
5. Effectiveness                            08/29/97
6. Loan closing                             12/31/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated And Actual
(US$ Thousands)
Appraisal estimate                                 50.0
Actual                                                                 50.0
Actual as % of estimate                                                100.0
Date of final disbursement                                          Sept. 2, 1997



14
TABLE 5: MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES AND MONITORING INDICATORS
Policy Area: Income Tratsfer Prograns for Vulnerable Groups - (i) C(hild Allowances; (ii) Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme (MI1G.); and (iii) Social Schtolarships.
Objectives                            Measures Adopted by Board Presentation                        Follow-up Measures                   Completion
*  Utilize existing income transfer programs to    For child allowances:
partially compensate the most vulnerable groups for  *  Increase of universal child allowance to Lei 50,000 per   *  Implementation of monthly incremental family  Yes
the immediate costs of the stabilization and       month paid to all children as of February 1. 1997.    allowance of Lei 30,000 for families with two
adjustment program.                            *  Presentation of an Implementation Plan for the         children, of Lei 80,000 for families with three
*  Provide assistance to children from poor households  Incremental Family Allowance Program by              children. and of Lei 110,000 for families with
to remain in school.                               negotiations.                                         four or more children as of July 1,1997.
*  Make structural adjustments in the Social Assistance  *  Government approval of Draft Law on (i) Introduction
System to provide. in the future, for a more efficient  of Incremental Family Allowances Program and (ii)
income support system for population groups falling  Exclusion of Incremental Family Allowances in the
below the poverty line.                            calculation of income to establish eligibility under
Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme.
For Minimubm Income Guarantee Scheme (MIG):
*   Full indexation to inflation of benefit levels under MIG   *   Completion of evaluation of MIG program and    Yes
preparation of MIG reform program, including
.   Increase of budgetary allocations to MIG amounting to  an adequate financing mechanism.
0.29 percent of GDP under 1997 local budgets      *   Until restructured. continued full indexation of    Yes
estimations.                                          MIG benefit levels.
*   Preparation of Terms of References for evaluation of    *   Presentation of the monitoring reports prepared    Yes
MIG program and appointment of evaluation team        by Prefects on use of MIG funds by December
through Ministerial Decision.                         31. 1997.
.   Parliamentary approval of 1997 Budget Law which   *   An ev aluation and subsequent reform of the   No
specifies that Central Governm1enit wage tax          entire range of social assistance benefits. (both
reallocations to Local Governments Nvould be used     cash and in kind). in conjunction with the reform
giving priority to social assistance expenditures.    of the MIG program. that would prov ide an
*   Prine Minister's communication to lPrefects of Jludets  efficienit and \\ell targeted social assistance
on the use of Central Government wk age tax           s\ stem.
reallocations. for the MIG program.
For Social Scholarships:
*   Full indexing of social scholarshiips provided through    *  Continluation of fuill indexation of benefits under   Yes
the school system as a complement to the Minimum     Social Scholarships.
Income Guarantee Scheme.



15
Policy Area: Direct Transfer Programns (In-Kinl) for Vulnerable Groups.
For Social Caanteenis and Soup Kitchens:               *  Preparation of the Draft Law on social canteens.        *   Government approvai of a Draft Law on social      Yes
*  Assure access to food for vulnerable population     .  Terms of References for design of Soup Kitchen               canteens by June 1. 1997. and subsequent
groups not reached through Minimum Income              Program in major cities.                                    Parliament approval including legal provisions
Support Scheme and other cash transfer programs.    *  Increased budgetary allocation amounting to 0.17            for Soup Kitchen Program.
percent of GDP for social feeding programs in 1997     *   Design of Soup Kitchen Program for five major    Yes
local budgets projections.                                  cities in Romania in collaboration with NGOs.
*   Implementation of expanded social feeding         Yes
programs in  canteens and through soup
kitchens.
For Institutionalized Care:
*  Improve effectiveness of social programs by         *  Full indexation to inflation of food prices. for the food    *  In 1998, establishment of Social Services     Yes
establishing alternative. family-based social          budgets in institutions taking care of vulnerable          Departments in all Judets. to assist vulnerable
programs to reduce institutionalization.               population groups (children and families at risk.          population groups (children and families at risk.
*  Assure adequate budget availability in institutions     disabled. elderly. etc.) during last wage adjustments.     disabled, elderly. etc.) to prevent
taking care of children. the elderly, disabled and                                                                institutionalization where possible.
other population groups dependent on                                                                           *  Full indexation of food prices for the food        Yes
institutionalized care.                                                                                           budgets for institutionalized care units during
future indexation adjustments.
Cash Payments for Bread Suibsidies:
*  Provide temporary income support to compensate      *  Adoption of measures on temporary cash payments
loss income groups for increases in bread prices       (April to September 1997) to targeted population
caused by elimination of bread subsidy.                groups to compensate for increase in bread price caused
by elimination of previous price controls and subsidies
on bread.
Electr icitr Life Line Rates:
*  Reduce impact of electric rate increases on the     *  Establishmenit of life liie riates for electricity: foir iist
income of poor houselholds.                            50 k\N h per monithi per housCIhold and for second 5)
Policy Area: Pensioni Programs - (i) Agricuiltural Pension1s and  (ii) State Pe,,sionts.
*  Contain poverty among pensioners li\ing on lo\\     .  Full indexationi of agricultulal pensions to inflation as  *  Continued i'ull indexation to itnlationi of     Yes
agricultural pensionis.                                of February I. 1997.                                       agricultural pensionis.
•  Prepare s\stemic reforms in P'ensioni Programil to  a  Statement of'reforn intenitionis for public pensioni    *  IPresentationi ol' ne\\ lCI1sioI L.a to Plarliamenit    No
limit future pension fund deficits.                    system (State P'ensioni Fund) includinig tightening of'    by September 30. 1997. 'ITle la\ \ill tighten
eligibilitN criteria and improving contributioll           eligibility criteria for state pensionis and introduce
com)plianice in order to maintain fiiianiciail equilibrium of-  measuLes to imlprovc contributioll complialce,. i
the State Peinsioni Fund.                                  ortdei to mainltain iilianicial equlilibrililn of the
State Penisioni Fund.



16
Policy! Area: Labor Market Measures - (i) Income Support Programs atid (ii) Active Labor Market Measures.
*  Provide support for displaced workers who become   For Severance Payments and Unemployment Benefits:  *  Continued full indcxation of unemployment      Yes
unemployed in industrial down-sizing implemented   *  Issuance of Government Ordinance establishing      benefits to inflation.
under the FESAL program.                           eligibility criteria and amount of payment         *  Implementation norms for severance payments to   Yes
under the Severance Payment Program, wvith the financing  be prepared by end of May 1997.
mechanism.
*  Allocation of 0.44 percent of GDP for severance
payments under 1997 budget law.
.  Full indexation of unemployment benefits to inflation.
*  Provide assistance to unemployed displaced workers  Active Labor Market Measuires:                    *  Implementation of agreed active labor market   Yes
in reintegrating into the labor market.        *  Establishment of Rapid Labor Redeployment Team at      program.
the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection through
Ministerial Decision.
*  Receipt of letter from Minister of Finance addressed to
the World Bank requesting allocation of US$ 10.5
million from Employment and Social Protection Loan
to a new disbursement category to provide financing for
active labor market measures.
Policy Area: Poverty Strategy
*  Define operational strategies for selected poverty  *  Presentation of wvork program to the World Bank on  *  Preparation of Poverty Strategy on how to  No
groups seriously affected by poverty and define a  workshop series under guidance of Presidency on (i)   address poverty of children and the unemployed.
comprehensive long-term strategy for addressing    poverty of children: and (ii) poverty of unemployed. in   *  Establishment of a National Poverty Commission   Yes
structural poverty. not likely to be alleviated    order to prepare operational strategy on hoNv to address  at the Presidential or Prime Minister level to
through economic growth.                           povertv in these two high priority areas.              design long-tern poverty alleviation strategy.



17
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Section             Description of Covenant               Coven   Present  Original  Revised   Comments
Type    Status   fulfill   fulfill
date     date
There were no loan covenants. Only conditions of Board presentation.
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                  Weeks               US$(000)
Pre appraisal                                   16.9                     30.3
Appraisal                                       10.0                     25.0
Negotiations through Board Approval              4.0                      7.0
Supervision                                      7.0                     11.0
Completion                                       0.5                      2.1
Total



18
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating'
i2Stage of Project Cycle  Month/   Numbe    SW in        Specialized Staff   Implementati  Developme           Types of
Year       r of     Field    Skills Representeda'    on Status          nt          Problems Cl
Persons                                                    Obj ecties
To Appraisal            Jan 12 -                       TM. EMT, HR, ECN
Identification       Apr 15,      4         9.0
Preparation            1997
Appraisal Through       Apr15 -                        TM. EMT, HR, ECN
Board Approval          June 3,      4         8.0
Appraisal              1997
Board approval
Supervision             Sept 97-     3         5.0     TM. EMT, HR                 S              S
Apr 98
Completion             June 98                 0.5                                 S              S
TNI    Task Mananer
ENIT   Einploviasent Training
HR     Human Resources Specialist
ElCN    Economist



19
APPENDIX A
ROMANIAN GOVERNMENT
MINISTRY OF LABOR, AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE
BUiCHAREST
MINISTIY OF FINANCE
To Mr. Mircea lonut Costea
Secretary of State
In response to your letter no. 220654/ 03.26.1998 on the Social Protection Adjustment
Loan Agreement (SPAL) concluded between Romania and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development in the amount of USD 50 million, we herein describe the stage
of achievement of the measures included in the social protection loan's matrix and of the follow-
up measures related to the labor market.
1.    DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL AND FAMILY-RELATED BENEFITS
The matrix accompanying the nevv SPAL Agreement (SPAL) concluded between
Romania and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development included the following
objectives and application measures:
(a) Increasing the state child allowance from lei 12,000 per month to lei 50,000 per month.
Government Decision 24/1997 has been passed and in conformity with it, starting February
1997, the state child allowance has gone up firom lei 12,000 to lei 50,000 per month. On the same
issue, Government Decision 173/ 1998 has been passed and it provides for an increase to lei
65,000 per month of the state child allowance provided in conformity with Law 61/ 1993,
starting March 1998.
(b) Providing additional allowance to families with children. In order to achieve this purpose,
an implementation plan and estimates of the costs related to this action have been prepared and
presented. At the same time, Law 119/ 1997 on additional allowance to families with children in
conformity with which the families or persons with two or more children are entitled to
additional allowance of different amounts as a function of the number of children has been
initiated and passed. In order to disseminate information on the way in which the law on
additional allowance to families with children is implemented, regional meetings have been held
and they have been attended by deputy general directors in charge of social protection and the
heads of the social assistance offices.--



20
(c) Evaluation of Law 67/ 1995 on social benefits. To this purpose, terms of reference have
been issued and a working team has been set up; the working team has designed the methodology
of evaluation and has selected the counties where the opinion polls will be organized as well as
the team that will make the final report. At the end of the survey, the questionnaires together with
a summary report were sent to the Department for Social and Family Benefits which centralized!
aggregated the data gathered in the counties. The first draft of the evaluation report of Law 67/
1995 on social benefits containing the main observations and proposals has been made; in
November 1997, the report was presented both to the minister's leadership and the resident
representative of the World Bank in Bucharest. Subsequently, the evaluation report got final and
a proposal for amending Law 67/ 1995 was presented. Data show that, at the end of 1996,
beneficiaries amounted to 322,555 while at the end of 1997, their number dropped to 164, 473.
This decrease of the number of holders was mainly due to implementation of Government
Decision 125/ 1996 as well as to the fact that while the population's income increased, the level
of income up to which social benefits are provided was only indexed. Thus, in December 1997,
compa red with August 1995, when Law 67/ 1995 on social benefits became effective, the level
of income up to which social benefits are provided went up 2.55 times, the average net salary
went up 3.99 times, the state social insurance pension went up 3.58 times and the average
pension of agriculturists went up 5.10 times. In this context, the purchase power of the social
benefit decreased by 43 percent while the purchase power of salaries went down only 11 percent,
that of the average state social insurance pension 22 percent, and that of the average pension of
agriculturists by 14 percent.
(d) Inidexing the social benefits provided for by Law 67/ 1995 on social benefits. This was
achieved under Government Decision 28/ 02.21.1997 in conformity with which, starting
February 1, 1997, the social benefits stipulated in Law 67/ 1995 were indexed by 46.1 percent
and, starting April 1, 1997, by 6 percent. At the same time, on August 25, 1997, Government
Decision 471 stipulating that social benefits were to be indexed by 15 percent as of August 1 and
by 14 percent as of October 1 was passed. Under Government Decision 173/ 1998, by March 31,
1998, the social benefits stipulated in Law 67/ 1995 were to be increased by the following
percentages: 15 percent as of April 1, 1998, 7 percent as of July 1, 1998, 7 percent as of October
1, 1998.
(e) Another objective stipulated in the terms of reference of the new Social Protection Structural
Adjustment Loan Agreement was to finalize a Program targeted at the disadvantaged
categories of the population under which these people were to be provided one hot meal a
day int soup kitchens. To this purpose, Law 208/ December 17, 1997 on social canteens was
initiated and passed. Article 3, letter d) of that law reads "... cooking and distributing food in
mobile units, for particular situations" and art 12 reads "Local Councils can give subsidies from
their own budgets, the budgets of the associations and foundations acknowledged by the MOLSP
which do not have as an objective the creation of social canteens".
(f) Increasing the food allowance in the following social assistance institutions: hostels for aged
and retired people, hostels for impaired children, orphanages, social canteens. This objective was
achieved by passing Government Decision 28/ 02.21.1997 in conformity with which, starting
February 1, 1997, the food allowance of these institutions was indexed by 57 percent and starting



21
April 1, 1997, by 25 percent. At the same time, on August 25, 1997, Government Decision 471
was passed. It stipulated that, starting August 1, the food allowance would be indexed by 12.6
percent and starting October 1, by 6 percent. Under Government Decision 173/ 1998, food
allowance is indexed by 51.4 percent.
2. DEPARTMENT FOR SOCIAL B:ENEFITS, PENSIONS AND BALNEOLOGY
TREATMENT
(a) Covering the increase of the bread price triggered by bread subsidy removal. In conformity
with the provisions of Law 73/ 1997, between April - September 1997, a temporary
compensation to cover the increase of the bread price was given as a result of subsidy removal;
the beneficiaries of this compensation were workers (whose monthly salary was less than lei 600
thousand), the retired (whose monthly pension was less than lei 450 thousand), students, the
unemployed, social and professional categories were small. The provided compensation was of
lei 13,500 per month in the public social insurance system and of lei 9,000 per month in the
agriculturists' social insurance system.
(b) Increase of the level of minimum pension in the agriculturists' social insurance system
to lei 72 thousand per month. In conformrity with the provisions of Government Decision 28/
1997, all the categories of pensions were indexed by 46.1 percent and, above this, the
agriculturists' pensions went up another 12 percent. This way, the minimum pension for full
work seniority reached the level of lei 92,888. Thus, if the level of adjustment to inflation was of
75 percent for all the categories of pensions, in the case of the agriculturists' pensions the
adjustment was of 100 percent. In the next period, the agriculturists' pensions will be indexed by
the same percentage as the other categories of pensions.
(c) Reform of the public pension system. 'rhe draft law on the public pension system and other
social assistance rights has been finalized and it is to be presented to the Government for
discussions and approval. Subsequently, it will be submitted to the Parliament.
3. DEPARTMENT FOR LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT
(a) Providing support to workers laid-off as a result of industrial restructuring.
Measure 1: Romanian Government's Emergency Ordinance 9/1997 on measures of
protection of the persons whose individual work contracts will be canceled as a result of mass
lay-offs resulting from the application of the programs of restructuring, privatization, liquidation
approved through Law 108/1997. The law sets up the conditions for mass lay-off, the criteria of
eligibility for severance payment provided in different percentages as a function of work
seniority. At the same time, Government Ordinance 22/ 1997 on measures of protection of mine
and geological workers was approved.



22
Measure 2: The MOLSP has set up the fund for severance payment; 1,782 billion lei
representing 0.71 of GDP have been allocated.
Measure 3: Through 1997, indexation of the unemployment benefits to cover 100
percent of inflation was achieved.
(b) Assisting the laid-off workers on re-adjusting to the labor market.
Measure 1: In order to successfully face the urgent tasks generated by the application of
re-structuring, privatization, liquidation programs, the loan agreement between the Bank and the
MOLSP on the Project on Occupation and Social Protection has been changed by re-distributing
funds within the project and achieving a new component targeted at the program on labor re-
distribution. The newly achieved component to which US$10.5 million were allocated is under
way and the active measures stipulated in conformity with the terms of reference were achieved
by suppliers of redeployment services to mass lay-offs in conformity with the provisions of
Eimergency Ordinance 9/ 1997 and Emergency Ordinance 22/ 1997.
Measure 2: At the same time, in conformity with the provisions of Government's
Emergency Ordinance 9/1997, within the MOLSP, rapid intervention teams at local and central
level have been set up and they are responsible for pre-lay-off and post lay-off measures. Post
lay-off measures mainly refer to the application of the active measure programs meant for
providing occupation to workers laid-off in conformity with Emergency Ordinance 9/ 1997 and
Emergency Ordinance 22/ 1997.
Sincerely yours,
Norica Nicolai
Secretary of State



MAP SECTION



IBRRD 28710
22                                           21                                             216W                                          2V
U K R UA I NE ,To I-                                                                      R O M A N IA
ELEVATIONS ABOVE SOO ME SlRS
-48r
o    SELECTED CITIES
HUNGARY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~®COUNTY IJUDETI CENTERS
i  to i®NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   EXPRESSWAY
C                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS
EoIL,rh,,,~o  j OTHER PORTS
RI-     RIVERS
441                                                                                                                                     COUNThisopwspdYse I.IUDET) - - -  / C   D  BOUNDARIES
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS
ARAD                                                                          0  rob. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  9~~~~~~~~~  25  50  7.5 IU
Tb 5-9.d  ARAD                                                                                                                                     lO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  30  4TO  5TO  61)~~~~~~~~~~~ I   2    2    5    5   (
d                   ~~~~~~~~MILES
T boyndorles colomdenommoulons   j   ((              )       2    t   <~~~~~Poet /jE0 iArgo *          z' PoiciRi                                                     Tulcec, Ib
N   Alba kA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Megda                                                               CosoR
BCAA IA  C
T. oldSr Crop, rJid0rerRALim   gEAl
roFEoDoRiEP    FIIEDANIA
2~~~ ~~~                  urJL,~~~~~~~~~~nI~~~Irt                  26                                              28      To~~~~~~~~C t 



