Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P71 14-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
May 9, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit   =   Leu
US$l   =   7,095 Lei
1 Leu        US$0.00014
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Leu        US$I
19952        1992      Januar   1997   Februarv. 1997    March, 1997
2,033        3,084         5,146            6,896            7,236
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric system
BORROWER FISCAL YEAR
Jan. I - Dec. 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA  -  International Development Association
PIU  -  Project Implementation Unit
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOLSP  -  Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NGO   - Non-Governmental Agency
MIG  -  Multi-lateral Investment Gaurantee
FESAL  -  Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
ASAL  -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CEE  -  Central and Eastern Europe
Vice President:       Johannes Linn. ECAVP
Director:              Kenneth G. Lay. EC I DR
Division Chief:        Ralph W. Harbison. ECIHR
Responsible Staff:     Mansoora Rashid (TTL). Amtraud Hartmann. Frank Lysy,
Sandor Sipos, David Fretweil, Maurice X. Boissiere. Thomas
O'Brien. Richard Florescu. Ana-Maria Sandi. Francois Ettori



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION
ADJUSTMENT LOAN IN AN AMOUNT OF
US$50 MILLION TO ROMANIA
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION ...........1I
1. THE ECONOMY .
II.  THE SOCIAL PROTECTION PROGRAM                          .         .        2
A. Poverty in Romania                         .2
B. The Social Protection Strategy                 .3
Child Allowances                        .5
Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme                 .5
Social Feeding Programs                    .5
Temporary Cash Benefits in Substitution of Bread Subsidy  .7
Lifeline Rates for Electricity              .7
Pension System                         .7
C. The System of Labor Market Measures               .8
D. Fiscal Costs of the Program .10
Ill.   THE PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN  . .11
A. Loan Objectives and Rationale .11
B. Composition and Quality of the Bank's Portfolio .11
C. Loan Amount and Tranches .12
D. Disbursement and Procurement .12
E. Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing .12
F. Environmental Implications .13
G. Benefits and Risks .13
H. Coordination With Other Donors .13
IV. RECOMMENDATION .14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEX
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2: Policy Matrix
Annex 3: Timetable for Key Processing Steps
Annex 4: Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
Statement of IFC Operations in Romania
Annex 5: Romania at a Glance
Annex. 6: Tables and Graphs
MAP



ROMANIA
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Romania
Executing Agencies:        Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
Beneficiaries:             The poor: the unemployed, children, pensioners on low
pensions and other groups that are likely to be adversely
impacted by the short term impact of the Government's
macrostabilization and structural reform program.
Loan Amount:               US$50 million
Terms:                     Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans in
US dollars.
Objectives:                The objective of the loan is to support the Government's effort
to strengthen the agreed social protection program. This
program has been developed to assist the most vulnerable
groups of society who will suffer from the negative income
effects of macro-economic stabilization and structural reform
measures to be carried out throughout 1997/1998.
Loan Description:          The loan will provide financial support for the Government's
social protection program. These measures will require
additional resources for the protection of vulnerable groups. The
loan will be disbursed in a single tranche.
Benefits:                  The loan will support a social protection program which is a
crucial element of the Government's macro-economic and
structural adjustment measures. Implementation of these
economic reform and stabilization measures are essential to
reverse Romania's rapidly deteriorating macro-economic
situation and to firmly launch the country on the path to a
market economy.
Risks:                     Despite the strong political commitment to economic reform and
social protection measures, there is a high risk that program will
not be effectively implemented due to administrative constraints
or budget reversals. Tight budgetary ceilings, and insufficient
allocations for other expenditure categories, might cause the
Government to reallocate resources away from the social
protection program, and imperil its implementation. There is an



additional risk that the implementation of the overall economic
reform program may not be sustainable because of faltering
social and political consensus. especiallv from those population
groups that will not benefit directly from social protection
measures, such as Romania's middle class. These groups do not
belong to the most vulnerable classes of society, but will still
have to face real declines in income throughout 1997.
Environment::               The proposed loan has been placed in Category C.
Poverty Category:           The social protection program being supported by this loan is a
poverty-focused program. The program supports improvements
in the adequacv and the targeting of cash and in kind benefits to
the most vulnerable groups of the population, and strengthens
the institutional capacity for delivering these programs to the
truly needv.
Disbursements:              FY97          US$   50 million
Cumulative    US$   50 million
Project I.D. Number:        RO-PE-50432



Report and Recommendation of the President
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Social Protection Adjustment Loan
to Romania
INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) to Romania for US$ 50 million. The Loan will be in
one tranche in US Dollars and will be payable in 20 years, including a 5 year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans. The SPAL will
provide financial support for the Government's Social Protection Program that has its major
objective support to the most vulnerable groups of the population against the adverse short term
impact of the Government's macro-economic stabilization and structural reform program. As
such, the loan forms a integral part of the Government's overall economic reform program and is
critical for launching the country decisively on the path to a market economy.
i. THE ECONOMY
2.     The present Government of Romania was appointed in November, 1996, and inherited a
very difficult economic situation. Although fundamentally a consequence of inadequate
structural reforms over the last several years, the situation was brought to a crisis point by
especially expansionary monetary and fiscal policies in the year leading up to the elections.
With the deficit financed by money creation or by short-term debt, the newly elected
Government was faced with a high current account deficit, high inflation, and fiscal pressures.
Relieving these pressures in a sustainable way will require not simply tight monetary and fiscal
policies, but also adequately addressing the neglected structural measures which lie at the root of
the problems. Especially necessary are an acceleration of privatization in the industrial and
agricultural sectors, liquidation of non-viable enterprises, liberalization of agricultural prices,
and imposition of hard budget constraints combined with sound financial sector policies. Recent
political and social developments, the macroeconomic program, the financing plan and the
country's credit worthiness are discussed in detail in the new Country Assistance Strategy (1997)
that accompanies this report.
3.     The Government is determined to implement the stringent macrostabilization policies
which will be necessary, and to move forcefully on structural reform, especially in the enterprise,
financial, and agricultural sectors. These measures will launch Romania decisively on the path
to a market economy. To assist in the implementation of these measures, the Government has
requested financial assistance from the World Bank under an Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan and is implementing the program supported by the ongoing Finance and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL), which the World Bank approved in early 1996.
4.     These measures will come with high social costs in 1997. GDP is expected to decline by
1% to 2%, consumer prices are expected to rise by over 100%, and unemployment is projected to
increase sharply. Average real wages will fall. As part of the stabilization program, Parliament
approved in March 1997 regulations which stipulate that Regies Autonomes and loss-making
state-owned commercial companies cannot increase the average wage for 1997, relative to the
average wage for the last quarter of 1996, by more than 75 percent of the projected increase in



-2-
consumer prices. For all these reasons, there will be significant declines in real income for most
of Romania's households. In addition, increasing unemployment will have an especially sharp
impact on the households directly affected. Under the enterprise adjustment program which the
FESAL is supporting, it is expected that close to 100,000 industrial workers will be laid off due
to the need for industrial downsizing and enterprise closures.
5.     The Romanian population will be hard hit by these measures. Declining household
incomes will at least initially push more into poverty, and increasing unemployment will threaten
the whole fabric of society. Economic reform measures are expected to hold especially serious
consequences for poorer households. The liberalization of agricultural prices has already led to
significant food price increases, with these substantially above average inflation levels. In
Romania, as in other countries, the share of food consumption in total expenditure is higher for
poor households. Poor households spend 85 percent of their outlays on food, as compared to 42
percent for highest income groups. Poor households will also be seriously affected by price
increases for utilities, although here (as described below) life-line rates were established to
cushion the impact on the poorest. More broadly, poor households (as in all countries) are least
able to cope with the expected economic shocks, as they already are living with the least
"margin" to absorb any shock, and because they hold few assets and savings which can be used
during a time of economic stress.  Poverty will undoubtedly temporarily increase as a
consequence of the macrostabilization and structural reform measures, and while these measures
(if sustained) can be expected to reduce poverty later, this will not help the poor in 1997.
II. THE SOCIAL PROTECTION PROGRAM
A. Poverty in Romania
6.     Poverty is already high in Romania. The World Bank Poverty AssessmentI recently
discussed with the Government, estimates (based on 1994 data, the most recent available when
the study was done) that 22 percent of Romania's population live below the poverty line defined
by the World Bank. This amounts to about 5 million individuals and 1.6 million households that
are poor. People living in rural areas are especially seriously affected by poverty. Two-thirds of
Romania's poor live in villages, primarily in the north of the country. Population groups
particularly affected by poverty are the unemployed, households with many children, farmers,
and selected pensioners (Table 1, Annex 6). While pensioners as a group are not particularly
poor, there are still significant numbers of old people living in deep poverty, far below any
poverty line. These are primarily elderly women, dependent on very low agricultural pensions,
living alone and receiving no supplemental income. Evidence in Romania (as found in the
Poverty Assessment, for example) and in other transition economies, also points to a close
correlation between poverty and the number of children in a household. Children in poor
households carry much of the "poverty" cost of transition policies, with important long-term,
often irreversible, effects: malnutrition during early childhood, low health status, dropping out
from school, and increases in child labor.
7.     Poverty in Romania is deep relative to that seen in other countries. With a poverty gap
of 25 percent, Romania will need major adjustments and a number of years of strong economic
Romania: Poverty and Social Policy, April, 1997, Report-No, I6462-RO



-3-
growth before the number below the poverty line is reduced significantly. The long term
unemployed, households with many children living on low wages, and the elderly poor in rural
areas, will not be lifted above the poverty level solely by economic growth. The Presidency of
Romania has launched a workshop series which has as its objective the design of operational
strategies to address poverty of children and the unemployed. In order to prepare an operational
strategy on how to address poverty in two high priority areas, the Government has presented to
the World Bank the terms of reference of a workshop series under the guidance of the Presidency
on (i) poverty of children; and (ii) poverty of the unemployed. As a follow-up measure, the
Govemment will establish at the Presidential or Prime Minister level a National Poverty
Commission to design a long-term poverty alleviation strategy.
B. The Social Protection Strategy
8.     The Social Protection Program has been designed taking very much into account the
findings of the World Bank Poverty Assessment. The Program will focus particularly on the
most vulnerable groups and on those who will be most impacted by the reforms:  The
unemployed, poor pensioners, households with several children, and individuals and households
living on very low incomes well below any poverty line. A particular focus of the Program will
be on the protection of children.
9.     The Social Protection Program is also designed to complement the ongoing economic
reform measures. Its objective is to put in place social protection measures quickly, at the same
time as macrostabilization and structural reform measures are being implemented. As time
constraints do not permit the establishment of new programs, income support is being provided
through existing, functioning, transfer programs. Thus the Social Protection Program uses
several existing cash transfer programs (child allowances, unemployment benefits and severance
pay, Minimum Income Guarantee Program, and agricultural pensions) directed to the identified
target groups, with the benefit levels being adjusted and adequate funding being provided in the
budget. The increase in cash transfers required to finance this program-- 2.1% of GDP--will fully
substitute for the previous widespread consumer subsidies, which went to everybody through
lower prices for selected commodities and which have been eliminated as part of the economic
reform program. The shift from consumer subsidies to cash transfers for groups in need of
income support, will not have the distortionary economic effects the of earlier price
interventions.
10.    The seven basic program components of the social protection system are:
a. A significant increase in the level of universal child allowances directed to all
households with children, and supplemental payments to families with several
children. The increased universal allocation has already been implemented, in
February. The supplemental is expected to be put in place in July 1, 1997, as
soon as necessary administrative and legislative measures have been completed.
b. The full indexation to inflation for agricultural pensions since February 1, 1997.
Note that these pensions are extremely low. Even with these adjustments, the
minimum pension would only reach US$10 per month, with the average
agricultural pension about $13 per month.



-4-
c. Full indexation of the real benefit level in the Minimum Income Guarantee
Scheme. The defined benefit level is already below the poverty line, but all that
can be provided given the tight budget; the indexation will merely keep it from
falling further.
d. A broadening of social feeding programs, through adequate budget for, and
increased use of, existing canteens, as well as the quick establishment of simple
"soup kitchen" programs in areas with a large number of the very poor who may
not be easily reached through income transfer programs.
e. The continuation and possible strengthening of supplemental social protection
schemes administered through the education system, such as special student
scholarships.
f. Temporary income support to the low income earners to buffer the effects of the
elimination of the bread subsidy.
g. Establishment of lifeline rates for electricity, with a very low rate for the first 50
kilowatt-hours per household per month, somewhat higher rates for the next 50,
and market rates (equivalent to about 5 cents per kilowatt-hour; about four times
the previous rates) for consumption above 100 kwh per month. The lifeline rates
are in effect income transfers targeted to households with low electricity
consumption, where studies have shown electricity use is a good predictor of
household income.
11.   In addition to these immediate social protection measures, the Government is committed
to implementing essential structural reform measures, which will have medium and longer term
effects. These include:
a. An evaluation and subsequent reform of the Minimum Income Guarantee
Scheme to improve the coverage and effectiveness of this program.
b. An evaluation and subsequent reform of the entire range of social assistance
benefits (both cash and in-kind), that in conjunction with the reform of the
Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme, would result in an efficient and well
targeted social assistance system.
c. The preparation of a new draft Pension Law to tighten eligibility and improve
contribution compliance under the Public Pension Program.
d. The gradual introduction of Private Pension systems in Romania as a
complement to the Public Pension Program.
e. The introduction of effective social service provision in all judets, to
complement cash benefit systems and to provide alternative care systems (rather
than institutionalization) of children, the elderly, the disabled, and other
population groups at risk.



-5-
f. The preparation of a long-term poverty strategy, addressing deep poverty,
particularly among children and the unemployed, which will not be resolved
through economic growth alone
12.   The rationale and objective of each component of the Social Protection Program is
discussed in greater detail below:
13.   CHILD ALLOWANCES. Child allowances are a universal scheme paying an equal
benefit to each child irrespective of the level of family income, with the added stipulation that
school age children must remain in school to receive the benefit. The real level of child
allowances has decreased considerably over the past few years. The Government spent only 0.8
percent of GDP on child allowances in 1996 as compared to 2.9 percent of GDP in 1990. Despite
this development, child allowances are well targeted to the poor, mainly because families with
more children (mainly the poor) receive a larger total benefit than smaller families.
14.    Since February 1997, the Government has increased the universal child allowance to Lei
50,000 per month for each child, up from the previous monthly level of Lei 12,000 per child.
Starting with July 1, 1997, an additional allowance of Lei 30,000 per month will be paid for
families with two children, an additional Lei 80,000 for families with three children, and an
additional Lei 110,000 per month for families with four children. No incremental payments will
be made for subsequent children. Incremental allowances for multi-children households are
being introduced to target income support to households with several children, which are most
likely to live below the poverty line. The incremental family allowances will not be included in
the calculation of the income base to establish eligibility criteria for the Minimum Income
Guarantee Scheme. Inclusion of the family allowance in the calculation of the income base
would impose a 100 percent tax on this benefit for very poor households and exempt wealthier
households from paying this tax. The Government has approved a Draft Law on (i) the
introduction of the Incremental Family Allowances and, (ii) the exclusion of Incremental Family
Allowances in the calculation of income to establish eligibility under the MIG Scheme. As
administrative measures are necessary to prepare the payment of Incremental Family Allowances
according to the number of children, the incremental family allowance will only be implemented
starting July 1, 1997. The Government has presented an implementation plan for the Incremental
Family Allowance Program to the World Bank.
15.   The substantial increase in the universal child allowances and the introduction of family
allowances targeted to families with several children, will increase fiscal resource requirements
of the child allowance program to 1.8 percent of GDP. However, the increased amount of
transfer would constitute an important source of income for single and two earner low wage
households, and reduce the depth of poverty they would face without such increases in benefits.
(Table 2, ANNEX 6 ).
16.   MINIMUM INCOME GUARANTEE SCHEME (MIG). In 1995, Romania initiated
a Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme that was designed to become the principle vehicle for
income support for households realizing incomes below the guaranteed minimum amount. The
scheme has remained modest in size, with a guaranteed minimum income well below the poverty
line developed in the Romania Poverty Assessment. In 1995 and 1996, only 0.2 percent of GDP
2Romania: Poverty and Social Policy, ibid, 1997.



-6-
was spent for this scheme. There is growing evidence anecdotal evidence that the MIG has
substantial administrative and weaknesses in program design that have led to significant
inclusion and exclusion errors in the program. This evidence is difficult to substantiate
empirically as Local Governments, responsible for program administration have kept very
limited, and largely unreliable, data on recipient profiles and program expenditures.
17.   Despite growing concerns about the effectiveness of the MIG, the Government has
increased budgetary allocations to the MIG to a total of 0.29 percent of GDP in the 1997 local
budget estimations. The MIG benefit level was fully indexed to inflation during the last
indexation exercise in March, 1997. The Government has also agreed to continue the full
indexation of MIG benefit levels until the program is restructured. There are two reasons for
supporting this measure. First, despite its inadequacies, vulnerable groups not covered by other
programs can only potentially be reached through the MIG. These groups include the long-term
unemployed ineligible for unemployment support or unemployment assistance ,who have
exhausted unemployment benefits, or farmers without pension rights. Second, MIG
beneficiaries, some of whom are likely to be the truly needy, may well increase as a result of
income declines over the course of 1997. The MIG program will therefore need to be
maintained, pending further review, in its present form during 1997 to provide for this minimum
assistance as a "last line of defense" against poverty.
18.    The emerging inadequacies of the program necessitate a comprehensive review of the
MIG. In order to properly evaluate the present program, agreement has been reached with
Government on the completion of.an evaluation of the MIG program and the preparation of the
MIG reform program, including an adequate financing mechanism. Based on the
recommendation of this evaluation, reform measures will be undertaken to strengthen the
Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme. The Government has prepared the Terms of References
for the Evaluation of the MIG Program and appointed an evaluation team through Ministerial
Decision. In addition, an evaluation and subsequent reform of the entire range of social
assistance benefits (both cash and in kind) would be undertaken, in conjunction with the MIG
reform program, to provide an-efficient and well targeted social assistance system.
19.   The Government further agreed to monitor the appropriate allocation of funds to MIG
financing at the local level. Inadequate allocations of resources has often been the cause for non-
payments or delayed payments of MIG benefits to beneficiaries. MIG expenditures are in
principle financed through local revenues, but, as local revenues are insufficient, block grants
provided by central Governments have been used as an important source of financing for the
MIG program. In practice, not all of these transfers are used by local Governments to finance
MIG benefits, but are sometimes used for financing other local expenditures. The Parliament has
approved the 1997 budget law which specifies that central Government wage tax reallocations
would be used giving priority to social assistance expenditures. The Prime Minister has
communicated to the Prefects of Judets on the use of Government wage tax reallocations for the
MIG program.
20.    Complementary measures to the MIG program will continue to be carried out by the
Ministry of Education through the provision of special scholarship to needy students. These
scholarships, averaging only 25,000 lei/month per recipient and limited to only I percent of the
student population, are only provided to obviously needy students selected by the school
administration and teachers. Available evidence suggests that this scholarship program is well
targeted, providing support to students who are otherwise in danger of dropping out of the school



-7-
system because of financial constraints. The Government has agreed to fully index social
scholarships provided through the school system as a complement to the MIG scheme to
inflation in 1997 and in the future. Social scholarships provided through the school system as a
complement to the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme were fully indexed to inflation during
the last indexation exercise in March, 1997.
21.   SOCIAL FEEDING PROGRAMS. The Government is implementing a strengthened
social feeding program. These "in-kind" benefits are desirable as they can reach population
groups not typically reached through cash benefits. Feeding programs, combined with income
support measures, would help reduce the emerging malnutrition among poor Romanian children
and supplement the low caloric intakes of the poor (Annex 6, Figure 5). The program anticipates
an expansion of canteen programs and the introduction of soup kitchen programs, from an
average of 40,000 meals per day in 1996 to about 120,000 meals in 1997. Soup kitchens will be
established in larger towns at points frequented by the homeless and other destitute people.
These kitchens would provide for a bowl of soup and a slice of bread free of charge on a first-
come-first-served basis. The Government has increased the budgetary allocation to 0.17 % of
GDP for social feeding programs in the 1997 local budget projections. The Government has
prepared a draft law on social canteens, and prepared the Terms of Reference for the design of
the Soup Kitchen Program in major cities. The terms of reference define the preparatory work
required to launch the soup kitchen program in major Romanian cities. The design and
implementation of the program is expected to be carried out with the assistance of experienced
international Non-Governmental Organizations.
22.   TEMPORARY CASH BENEFITS IN SUBSTITUTION OF BREAD SUBSIDY. As
part of the economic reform program, Government eliminated the bread subsidy in February
1997. With the elimination of the bread subsidy, bread prices increased by 100 percent. Bread is
an important staple in the Romanian diet, particularly in the consumption baskets of poorer
households. The Government has adopted measures on temporary cash payments (April to
September, 1997) to targeted population groups to compensate for the increase in bread price
caused by the elimination of previous price controls and subsidies on the price of bread. The cash
payments will be targeted to low income groups, and institutions providing for low income
individuals. The cash payments consist of: a monthly cash payment of 13,500 lei to: (1)
employees in the public and private sector with average wages below 600,000 lei/month; (II)
pensioners under the State Pension Fund with average pensions below 300,000 lei/month; (III)
unemployed receiving either unemployment benefits or unemployment assistance under the post
unemployment scheme; (IV) beneficiaries under the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme. In
addition to these income transfers, 9,500 lei/month will be paid to all agricultural pensioners and
450 lei/day provided as increased food allocations to institutions which provide care to children,
elderly, disabled, in hospitals, canteens, etc. The Government has agreed to fully indexed to the
inflation of food prices the food budgets in institutions taking care of vulnerable groups (children
and families at risk, disabled, elderly, etc.) in 1997 and during future indexation adjustments.
The food budgets of these institutions were fully indexed to inflation during the last wage
adjustments,
23.   LIFE LINE RATES FOR ELECTRICITY. The Government has established life-line
rates for electricity, for the first 50 kilowatt-hours per month per household and for the second 50
kwh per month per household. A very low rate (Lei 75 per kwh) is applied for the first 50
kilowatt-hours per household per month. There are somewhat higher rates (Lei 172 per kwh) for
the next 50 kilowatt-hours and market rates (Lei 358, or about 5 cents per kwh), about five times



-8-
the previous rate, for consumption above 100 kilowatt-hours. Lifeline rates are a universal
benefit, but have a greater relative impact the poor, who consume less electricity and spend a
greater share of their income (relative to richer groups) on utilities.
24.    THE PENSION SYSTEM. The Romanian public pension system provides a modest
level of pension benefit to contributing individuals, after age of 55 for men and age 60 for
women. There are two main pension funds. The State Pension Fund provides pensions to state
enterprise workers, while the Agricultural State Pension Fund, much smaller in terms of overall
expenditures and beneficiaries, provides pensions to workers of the former agricultural
cooperatives, dissolved since 1991. No private pension funds have, as yet, been established.
Total spending by both funds amounted to 6.9 percent of GDP in 1996, and remains much below
Central and Eastern European norms. The main reason for prudent pension expenditures in
Romania is that the pension system has one of the lowest replacement rates of pensions to net
wages (30%) in the region (see Figure 4, Annex 6). Pension levels in the agricultural pension
system are especially low and explain the high incidence of poverty among older women in rural
areas. In order to protect the real level of already low agricultural pensions, the Government has
fully indexed agricultural pensions to inflation as of February 1, 1997. The Government has
agreed to continue full indexation of agriculture pensions throughout 1997 and in the future.
25.   In 1996, after realizing a surplus till 1995, the State Pension Fund realized a deficit of
0.46 percent of GDP. The deficit was occasioned by an increasing number of pensioners,
particularly in the disability category, matched by a deterioration in payroll tax compliance by
insolvent state enterprises. To prevent the further deterioration of the financial position of the
Pension Fund, the Government has proposed to reform the pension system. As such, it is
considering potential measures to improve the financial viability of the Pension Fund, that
include, among other measures, stricter eligibility conditions, a tighter link between pension
benefits and contributions, and improvements in tax compliance. The Government is also
committed to facilitate the establishment of private pension funds, that would complement the
public pension fund system, deepen capital markets and allow individuals more opportunities to
save for old age. The Government has presented a statement of reform intentions for the public
pension system including tightening of eligibility criteria and improving contribution compliance
in order to maintain financial equilibrium of the State Pension Fund. Detailed preparatory work
for the pension reforms will be undertaken during the next few months. The Government has
agreed to present a revised pension law to Parliament by September 30, 1997.
C. The System of Labor Market Measures
26.    Romania has an administratively well functioning system of temporary income support
for the unemployed and a still modest program of active labor market measures for displaced
workers. Unemployment benefits, amounting to 55% of the previous wage are paid to the
unemployed for a period of 9 months. The unemployed who can demonstrate financial need are
eligible for a further 9 months of unemployment benefits, but at a much reduced level of
assistance. Much like other benefits, the level of unemployment benefits has decreased in real
terms and is likely to fall further over the course of 1997. In order to avoid a further erosion of
benefit levels, and in light of high incidence of poverty among the unemployed, the Government
has agreed to fully index unemployment benefits to inflation in 1997 and in the future.
Unemployment benefits were fully indexed to inflation during the last indexation exercise in
March, 1997.



-9-
27.    Romania has been slow to establish a system of active labor market measures. Under an
ongoing Employment and Social Protection Project3, the World Bank provides financial support
and technical assistance to establish a national system of labor services to displaced workers. The
project provides primarily institution building support and has a small active labor market
component directed towards mass-lay offs. Project resources are therefore being reallocated to
put more emphasis on these activities. Some important achievements have been made under a
PHARE financed program, where active labor market measures have been instituted at local
levels, primarily executed through domestic Non-Governmental Organizations. These measures
entail a menu of labor support programs, such as counseling, retraining, assistance in job search,
support to micro-enterprise creation, etc. They are small scale in nature and are of varying
quality, but they have achieved the establishment of a wide network of service providers which
can be utilized in providing support services for the large-scale layoffs expected throughout
1997. Until the recent reforms, Romania only had a limited program for severance payments,
paid only to enterprises previously placed under "Financial Surveillance", a special regime
established for enterprises in financial distress and governed by a special regulatory system.
Workers laid off in companies not placed under this regime were not eligible for severance
payments and received only temporary income support through unemployment benefits.
28.    Labor market programs established before the recent reforms were not sufficient for the
large scale lay-offs expected in 1997. The FESAL program anticipates important industrial
downsizing and restructuring measures likely to lead to lay-offs of approximately 100,000
workers from state-owned enterprises concentrated in several large -scale enterprises and
industries. All workers displaced from work under mass lay-off schemes will need to receive
severance payments. A definition of criteria on which displaced workers would be eligible for
severance payments had to be established.
29.    The Government has issued an Ordinance establishing the eligibility criteria and the
amount of payment under the Severance Payment Program, with a financing mechanism.
Severance pay will only be available to those laid off under mass-lay off schemes rather than
being made available nationwide to all workers who become unemployed. The Ordinance
stipulates that: (a) Workers who have worked with the firm up to 5 years will get 6 months of
severance pay. Workers with 5 to 15 years will get 9 months, workers with 15 years will receive
12 months of severance pay; (b) if a worker is displaced in a local community having over 12
percent unemployment, the number of months of severance can be increased by 3 months. These
severance pay levels are comparable to severance payments made in other restructuring
economies in the CEE region and remain below severance payments typically paid in the
Western European countries for downsizing industries. Severance payments will be administered
through enterprises but financed through a special fund established by the Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection. The Government has allocated 0.44% of GDP for severance payments under
the 1997 budget law.
30.   In addition to income support, active labor market programs will be established to assist
the displaced workers in their reintegration into the labor market. Measures would be
implemented in the pre-layoff and post-layoff stage. In the pre-layoff stage, enterprises would
receive technical assistance to develop labor re-deployment plans, public information materials
and campaigns, and promote social dialogue. Plans would be developed in consultation with
social partners, including affected workers, representatives from the community, labor,
3Romania: Employment and Social Protection Project, October 31, 1994, Report-No, 12769-RO



-10-
enterprise management, and the Government. For services in the post-layoff stage, local public
and private agencies would be given contracts to deliver in-depth labor re-deployment services to
displaced workers (for example employment and relocation services, retraining, public service
employment, small business assistance, etc.).
31.   The Government has established a Rapid Labor Re-deployment team at the Ministry of
Labor and Social Protection through a Ministerial Decision. Technical assistance to establish this
service has already been secured. Financing for the provision of services will be provided under
the World Bank Employment and Social Protection Project. Agreement has been reached with
the Government, that a total amount of US$10.5 million of the World Bank project will be
allocated to the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. The World Bank has received a letter
from the Minister of Finance addressed to the World Bank requesting an allocation of US$10.5
million from the Employment and Social Protection Loan to a new disbursement category to
provide financing for active labor market measures, and we have approved the request.
D. Fiscal Costs of the Program
32.   The implementation of the Social Protection Program will require significant additional
resources, amounting to a total of 10.2 percent of GDP in 1997, and representing an increase of
2.2 percent of GDP over the 1996 fiscal allocations. In light of the very low level of past
budgetary allocations to social protection and insurance programs in Romania, this significant
increase in expenditures is justified, and will place social expenditure allocations in Romania
more in line with those of other CEE countries at similar levels of economic development. As
noted in section II, the increase in cash transfers required to finance the Social Protection
Program will fully substitute for the previous widespread consumer subsidies, which went to
everybody through lower prices for selected commodities and which have been eliminated as
part of the economic reform program. The shift from consumer subsidies to cash transfers for
groups in need of income support will not have the distortionary economic effects of the earlier
price interventions..
TABLE 1: FISCAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SOCIAL PROTECTION MEASURES
(as percentage of GDP)
1995   1996   1997   Increment
al
Child Allowances                0.68   0.58    1.80    1.22
Social Assistance               0.23   0.16    0.29    0.13
Bread Subsidy                   0.00   0.00   0.35    0.35
Severance Payments              0.00   0.00   0.44    0.44
Unemployment Benefits           0.75   0.58   0.64    0.06
Social Canteens                 0.10   0.10   0.17    0.07
Active Labor Market Measures    0.00   0.07    0.07    0.00
State Pensions                  5.64   6.07    5.54    -0.53
Agricultural Pensions           0.43   0.46   0.80    0.34
TOTAL                           7.83   8.02    10.10   2.08



-11-
III. THE PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Loan Objectives and Rationale
33.   The proposed quick disbursing Social Protection Adjustment Loan in the amount of
US$ 50 million will provide financial resources that will help the Government implement the
agreed Social Protection Program. The Social Protection Program, the rationale and objectives of
which were described extensively in section II of this report, focuses on increasing the adequacy
of existing cash and in kind programs to assist the Government in protecting the poorest and
most vulnerable groups in Romania from the negative income effects of macro-stabilization and
structural reform measures implemented under the IMF-Standby program, the ongoing Financial
and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan. Because
of the limited time available to put in place a completely reformed social protection system, the
short term measures supported by the Social Protection Program rely on existing social
protection schemes. However, the Social Protection Program also lays the framework for deeper
structural reforms in the social protection system in order to ensure its long term fiscal viability
and to improve its effectiveness in protecting the poor. The precise measures supported by the
program are summarized in the policy matrix attached as Annex 2 of this report.
B. Composition and Quality of the Bank Portfolio
34.   The Bank's portfolio in Romania is young as lending to the country resumed in 1991.
Most projects are of FY92 vintage onwards, spanning several key sectors of the economy and
supporting the transition agenda. A sizable portfolio has been built since then, with 14 projects
approved between FY91 and FY97, totaling $1.9 billion in commitments ,of which $ 1.0 billion
disbursed. Of these, two operations (SAL I and TACI) have closed.
35.   The November 1996 elections have brought a new govemment that is fully committed to
rapid structural adjustment. The recent dialogue between the Romanian government and the
Bank has been both intensive and productive. The result has been the galvanization of Bank
support for the new Government's comprehensive adjustment and social protection package
through: (i) a further tranche of the FESAL which was approved in January 1996; (ii) an
adjustment financing in agriculture (ASAL), and (iii) the support of social protection measures.
The new leaders will put our other operations, derailed by earlier decisions to suspend price and
tariff adjustments, back on track. The Bank's current assistance strategy to Romania, as agreed
with the new Government, consists of supporting (i) structural adjustment reforms and private
sector development; (ii) human capital development and poverty alleviation; (iii) institutional
strengthening; and (iv) environmental sustainability. Two operations (FESAL and the
Employment and Social Protection Project) have been redesigned to respond to new country
priorities and the accelerated pace of reform.
36.   The Bank has supported Romania's efforts to raise external capital by hosting two
consultative group meetings, one in 1993 and another in 1994. A third meeting is planned for
this fiscal year. Two Country Portfolio and Performance Reviews (CPPRs) have already taken
place in Romania. A third meeting may take place later this year. The CPPR's will be geared
towards a more active assessment of generic and specific implementation problems, and the
establishment of a post CPPR project monitoring to follow up on progress in meeting key
targets.



-12-
37.   The Resident Mission, established in July 1992, furthers the Bank's interaction with the
Government in the preparation and implementation of the Bank's assistance program, plays a key
role in the dialogue on macroeconomic issues and policy reform, advises policy makers on all
aspects of the reform process and assists in maximizing external resource mobilization and
coordinating external assistance. The improvement of portfolio management and monitoring is
at the top of the Bank's country dialogue, and the Resident Mission has also been given increased
supervision responsibilities. Likewise, an increased level of project preparation and follow-up
with Govemment agencies have recently been undertaken by the Resident Mission staff.
38.    Romania became a member of IFC in September 1990. The IFC has dedicated
significant resources in an attempt to provide financial support to privatized enterprises.
However, the privatization process has been slow, and has limited the opportunities available.
More recently, an improvement in the general business environment and a more positive attitude
by both enterprises and government agencies toward the privatization process has been observed.
Greater opportunities for a more active IFC role are thus expected, and the present CAS
document gives a flavor of how this can be achieved, particularly in support of enterprise
privatization, restructuring and private sector development.
39.    MIGA has concluded a Legal Protection Agreement and a Use of Local Currency
Agreement with Romania. Whilst no guarantee has been issued to date, a contract is nearing
fruition to a financial institution covering its equity investment in establishing a bank in
Romania. MIGA is also considering providing a guarantee for an investment in the mining
sector in the country. In addition, 12 other projects representing an aggregate potential
investment of US$934 million in Romania have registered with MIGA. EDI is looking into
increasing its support for Romania's current reform program through key activities outlined in
the CAS.
C. Loan Amount and Tranches
40.    The proposed Social Protection Adjustment Loan would be a one tranche operation.
Upon loan effectiveness, US$ 50 million would be released. The loan would be extended at the
World Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans in US dollars, with a
maturity of twenty years, including a grace period of five years.
D. Disbursement and Procurement
41.    The Loan will be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness. It will provide financial
resources which will permit the Government to implement the agreed Social Protection Program
described in the Letter of Development Policy, except for the items specified in the negative list
in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement. Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified
procedures adopted by the Board on February 1, 1996. The total amount of the Loan will be
disbursed into a Ministry of Finance foreign exchange account with the National Bank of
Romania. If after deposit in this account the loan proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, the
Bank will require the borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes; or (b) return that amount to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan.



-13-
E. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
42.    Although the Bank will not routinely require an audit of the Deposit Account, it reserves
the right to require an audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In addition, audit
reports would be submitted to the Bank no more than six months after the date of the Bank's
request.
F. Environmental Implications
43.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD
4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
G. Benefits and Risks
44.    The loan will support a social protection program which is a crucial element of the
Government's macro-economic and structural adjustment measures. Implementation of these
economic reform and stabilization measures are essential to reverse Romania's rapidly
deteriorating macro-economic situation and to firmly launch the country on the path to a market
economy. The social protection program would help alleviate poverty by supporting
improvements in the adequacy and targeting of cash benefits to the most vulnerable groups of the
poor and, by strengthening the administration of existing cash and in-kind benefit programs in
order to improve the delivery of benefits to the truly needy groups.
45.    Despite the strong political commitment to economic reform and social protection
measures, there is a high risk that program will not be effectively implemented due to
administrative constraints or budget reversals. Tight budgetary ceilings, and insufficient
allocations for other expenditure categories, might cause the Government to reallocate resources
away from the social protection program, and imperil its implementation. There is an additional
risk that the implementation of the overall economic reform program may not be sustainable
because of faltering social and political consensus, especially from those population groups that
will not benefit directly from social protection measures, such as Romania's middle class. These
groups do not belong to the most vulnerable classes of society, but will still have to face real
declines in income throughout 1997.
H. Coordination With Other Donors
46.    The Social Protection Adjustment Program has been prepared by a Joint
Government/European Union/World Bank Task Force. Regular consultation on all program
matters have been conducted with the European Union. Throughout the work of the Task Force,
close coordination has been sought with USAID, UNICEF and UNDP. USAID has played an
instrumental role in defining the active Labor Market Program supported by this loan. Close
coordination with UNICEF has been sought to define the appropriate assistance strategy for
children and families at risk and in designing measures to strengthen Romania's social service
network.



-14-
IV. RECOMMENDATION
47.    1 am satisfied that the Proposed Social Protection Adjustment Loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development, and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it,
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
May 9, 1997



ANNEX I
Page I of 7
ROMANIA
SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This Letter of Development Policy describes the social protection measures which the
Government of Romania is implementing as part of its program of macroeconomic stabilization
and structural reform. This program, which involves major adjustments in the enterprise and
agricultural sectors, will have serious short-term costs for many in Romania's population. The
Government of Romania is hereby requesting the World Bank's assistance, in the form of a Social
Protection Adjustment Loan, to help in the implementation and financing of this important
program.
Background
2.    The present Government of Romania was elected in November, 1996, and inherited a very
difficult economic situation. Although fundamentally a consequence of inadequate structural
reforms over the last several years, the situation was brought to a crisis point by especially
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies in the year leading up to the elections. With the deficit
financed by money creation or by short-term debt, the newly elected Government was faced with
a high current account deficit, high inflation, and fiscal pressures. Relieving these pressures in a
sustainable way will require not simply tight monetary and fiscal policies, but also adequately
addressing the neglected structural measures which lie at the root of the problems. Especially
necessary are an acceleration of privatization in the industrial and agricultural sectors, liquidation
of non-viable enterprises, liberalization of agricultural prices, and imposition of hard budget
constraints combined with sound financial sector policies.
3.    The Government is, however, determined to implement the stringent macrostabilization
policies which will be necessary, and to move forcefully on structural reform, especially in the
enterprise, financial, and agricultural sectors. These measures will launch Romania decisively on
the path to a market economy.  To assist in the implementation of these measures, the
Government has requested financial assistance from the World Bank under an Agricultural Sector



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
Adjustment Loan and is implementing the program supported by the ongoing Finance and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL), which the World Bank approved in early 1996.
4.    These measures will come with high social costs in 1997. GDP is expected to decline by
perhaps 3%, consumer prices are expected to rise by over 100%, and unemployment is projected
to increase sharply. Average real wages will fall. As part of the stabilization program, Parliament
approved in March 1997 regulations which stipulate that Regies Autonomes and loss-making
state-owned commercial companies cannot increase the average wage for 1997, relative to the
average wage for the last quarter of 1996, by more than 75 percent of the projected increase in
consumer prices. For all these reasons, there will be significant declines in real income for most of
Romania's households. In addition, increasing unemployment will have an especially sharp impact
on the households directly affected. Under the enterprise adjustment program which the FESAL
is supporting, it is expected that close to 100,000 industrial workers will be laid off due to the
need for industrial downsizing and enterprise closures.
5.    The Romanian population will be hard hit by these measures.  Declining household
incomes will at least initially push more into poverty, and increasing unemployment will threaten
the whole fabric of society. Economic reform measures are expected to hold especially serious
consequences for poorer households. The liberalization of agricultural prices has already led to
significant food price increases, with these substantially above average inflation levels.  In
Romania, as in other countries, the share of food consumption in total expenditure is higher for
poor households. Poor households spend 85 percent of their outlays on food, as compared to 42
percent for highest income groups. Poor households will also be seriously affected by price
increases for utilities, although here (as described below) life-line rates were established to
cushion the impact on the poorest. More broadly, poor households (as in all countries) are least
able to cope with the expected economic shocks, as they already are living with the least "margin"
to absorb any shock, and because they hold few assets and savings which can be used during a
time of economic stress. Poverty will undoubtedly temporarily increase as a consequence of the
macrostabilization and structural reform measures, and while these measures (if sustained) can be
expected to reduce poverty later, this will not help the poor in 1997.
6.    Poverty is already high in Romania.  The World Bank Poverty Assessment recently
discussed with the Government estimates (based on 1994 data, the most recent available when the
study was done) that 22 percent of Romania's population live below the poverty line that the
World Bank defined. This amounts to about 5 million individuals and 1.6 million households that
are poor. People living in rural areas are especially seriously affected by poverty. Two-thirds of
Romania's poor live in villages, primarily in the north of the country.  Population groups
particularly affected by poverty are the unemployed, households with several children, farmers,
and selected pensioners. While pensioners as a group are not particularly poor, there are still
significant numbers of old people living in deep poverty, far below any poverty line. These are
primarily elderly women, dependent on very low agricultural pensions, living alone and receiving
no supplemental income. Poverty in Romania is also deep relative to that seen in other countries.
With a poverty gap of 25 percent, Romania will need major adjustments and a number of years of
strong economic growth before the number below the poverty line is reduced significantly.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
Social Protection Strate2v
7.    The Social Protection Program  has been designed taking very much into account the
findings of the World Bank Poverty Assessment. The Program will focus particularly on the most
vulnerable groups and on those who will be most impacted by the reforms the unemployed, poor
pensioners, households with several children, and individuals and households living on very low
incomes well below any poverty line. A particular focus of our Program is the protection of
children. Evidence in Romania (as found in the Poverty Assessment, for example) and in other
transition economies, point to a close correlation between poverty and the number of children in a
household. Children in poor households carry much of the "poverty" cost of transition policies,
with important long-term, often irreversible, effects: malnutrition during early childhood, low
health status, dropping out from school, and increases in child labor.  Our polices intend to
especially limit these damages
8.    Our Social Protection Program  is also designed to complemnent the ongoing economic
reform measures. Its objective is to put in place social protection measures fast, at the same time
as macrostabilization and structural reform measures are being implemented  As time constraints
do not permit the establishment of new programs, income support is being provided through
existing, functioning, transfer programs. Thus the Social Protection Program uses several existing
cash transfer programs directed to the identified target groups, with the benefit levels beingz
adjusted and adequate funding being provided in the budget, specifically an increase in child
allowances to help households with several children, the protection in real terms of agricultural
pensions to help rural elderly who are subsisting on very low pensions. the protection in real terms
of the level of unemployment benefits and the introduction of severance pay to help the
unemployed; and a modest expansion of the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme to assist people
who are living on very low income and who are not protected through any of the other cash
transfer programs (such as the long-term unemployed, who have exhausted their unemployment
benefits, or elderly who do not have rights to pensions). Cash transfers will fully substitute for the
previous widespread consumer subsidies, which went to everybody through lower prices for
selected commodities and which have been eliminated as part of the economic reform program.
The shift from consumer subsidies to cash transfers for groups in need of income support, will not
have the distortionary economic effects the price interventions had
9.     The seven basic program components of our social protection system are
a. A significant increase in the universal child allowances directed to all households
with children, and supplemental payments to families with several children on a
progressive  scale.  The  increased  universal  allocation  has  already  been
implemented, in February. The supplemental is expected to be put in place in July
1997, as soon as necessary administrative and legislative measures have been
completed.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
b. The full indexation to inflation for agricultural pensions since February 1997. Note
that these pensions are extremely low. Even with these adjustments, the minimum
pension would only reach US$10 per month, with the average agricultural pension
about $13 per month.
c. Full indexation of the real benefit level in the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme.
The defined benefit level is already below the poverty line, but all that can be
provided given the tight budget, the indexation will merely keep it from falling
further.
d. A broadening of social feeding programs, through adequate budget for, and
increased use of, existing canteens, as well as the quick establishment of simple
"soup kitchen" programs in areas with a large number of the very poor who may
not be easily reached through income transfer programs.
e. The continuation and possible strengthening of supplemental social protection
schemes administered through the education system, such as special student
scholarships.
f  Temporary income support to the low income earners to buffer the effects of the
elimination of the bread subsidy.
g. Establishment of lifeline rates for electricity, with a very low rate for the first 50
kilowatt-hours per household per month, somewhat higher rates for the next 50,
and market rates (equivalent to about 5 cents per kilowatt-hour; about four times
the previous rates) for consumption above 100 kwhr per month. The lifeline rates
are in effect income transfers targeted to households with low electricity
consumption, where studies have shown electricity use is a good predictor of
household income.
10.   The program will rely especially on an increase in child allowances. As the first step in the
Social Protection Program, the universal child allowance, paid to every child, was increased in
February 1997 from lei 12,000 per month to lei 50,000 per month (equivalent to about US$ 7 per
month at the current exchange rate). Starting with July 1997, additional family allowance of (a)
lei 30,000 per month for families with two children, (b) lei 80,000 per month for families with
three children , and (c) lei 110,000 per month for families with four or more children will be
paid. Incremental allowances for multi-children households target income support to households
with several children, which the Poverty Assessment showed are particularly likely to live below
the poverty line.  Inflationary adjustments are only made for Agricultural Pensions, as these
pensions are extremely low. No other pensions will be fully adjusted for inflation, as we try to
reestablish an equilibrated financial position in the State Pension Fund in 1997, which in 1996 for
the first time showed a financial deficit. We only provide for a modest expansion in the Minimum
Income Guarantee Scheme as there are still administrative weaknesses in this program; it is
relatively new, and its coverage is not yet reliable. Together with expanded social funding
programs, and social scholarship to students, the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme is being



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
maintained as a last line of defense against poverty for those it is reaching, targeted towards
population groups which are not reached through other cash benefit schemes.
11.   In addition to these immediate social protection measures, we are committed to
implementing essential structural reform measures, which will have medium and longer term
effects. These include:
a. An evaluation and subsequent reform of the Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme
to improve the coverage and effectiveness of this program.
b. An evaluation and subsequent reform of the entire range of social assistance
benefits (both cash and in-kind), that in conjunction with the reform of the
Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme, would result in an efficient and well targeted
social assistance system.
c. The preparation of a new draft Pension Law to tighten eligibility and improve
contribution compliance under the Public Pension Program.
d. The gradual introduction of Private Pension systems in Romania as a complement
to the Public Pension Program.
e. The introduction of effective social service provision in all judets, to complement
cash benefit systems and to provide alternative care systems (rather than
institutionalization) of children, the elderly, the disabled, and other population
groups at risk.
f. The preparation of a long-term poverty strategy, addressing deep poverty which
will not be resolved through economic growth alone.
12.   We intend to improve the administration of the Minimum Income Guarantee Program with
the ultimate objective that all eligible households living on income below the defined household
will be reached, while such transfers to ineligible households will cease. We also intend to
rationalize the entire range of social assistance services, including child allowances, the Minimum
Income Guarantee Program, and other cash benefits and in kind transfers, in order to develop a
coherent social assistance program that is efficient and well targeted to the poor. On pensions, we
intend to maintain a financially sound position in our State Pension Fund by tightening eligibility
criteria, by increasing retirement ages and tightening access to disability pensions. We also intend
to improve contribution compliance. By establishing private pension funds, we intend to offer
additional savings options to provide for old age security. Substantial institutional reforms are
anticipated in Romania's social assistance system. Our present system relies almost exclusively on
cash benefits for income support and on institutional care for individuals who cannot live alone or
with family or relatives. We are in the process of establishing a nationwide system of social
services, which will provide assistance to vulnerable families and individuals. These services will
also help in the establishment of alternative care systems to the presently use of institutional care,
especially for children.



ANNEX I
PNge 6 of 7
Labor Market Measures
13.   We intend to address increased unemployment through income support and demand
driven labor market measures.  A system  of unemployment benefits already exists and is
functioning well in providing the stipulated benefits to those entitled to them. But poverty among
families with an unemployed household head is high, and unemployment benefits are very low.
Therefore, as part of the Social Protection Program, we will index unemployment benefits fully to
inflation. In addition, a system of severance payments will be paid to workers laid off as part of
any large-scale lay-off scheme, such as when a firm will be closed or drastically down-sized under
the enterprise restructuring program which the World Bank FESAL is supporting.
14.   Active, demand driven, labor market programs will also be established to assist displaced
workers in their reintegration into the labor market. Programs will be offered in the pre-layoff
and post-layoff stage.  In the pre-layoff stage, enterprises will receive the expert help of a
specialized team to develop labor deployment plans, public information materials and a public
information campaign, and to promote social dialogue. Plans would be developed in consultation
with social partners, including affected workers, representatives from  the community, labor,
enterprise management, and the Government. For services in the post-layoff stage, local public
and private agencies will be given contracts to deliver in-depth labor deployment services to
displaced workers, such as employment and relocation services, retraining, public service
employment, small business assistance and others. These will be demand driven programs, with a
menu of choices offered to the workers, for them to choose what will be most helpful in their
personal circumstances.  Implementation of these measures will be directed through a labor
deployment team located in the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. We will use US $10.5
million of the ongoing World Bank Employment and Social Protection Project to assure financing
of the active labor programs.
Fiscal Costs of Program
15.   The implementation of the Social Protection program  will require substantial fiscal
resources. A total of 10.1% of GDP will be allocated in the budget for the individual programs
which will make up the overall Social protection Program. This represents an increase of 2. 1% of
GDP over what was spent in 1996 for these programs. The principal increases are 1.2% of GDP
for family allowances and 0.4% of GDP for severance payment for unemployed workers.
16.   To assist in the financing of a portion of these incremental expenditures, in the context of
an overall fiscal expenditure program which is consistent with the stabilization goals, we request
support through a US$50 million World Bank loan for Social Protection Programs. The reforms
described above constitute an essential part of the ongoing stabilization and structural reform
programs. But reforms require considerable efforts by the Government, especially in a period of
severe fiscal contraction, when fiscal resources need to be reallocated away from other high



ANNEXI
Page 7 of 7
severe fiscal contraction, when fiscal resources need to be reallocated away from other high
priority items. Receiving the financial support of the World Bank for this program will be
essential in assuring the full implementation of the social protection measures.
Sincerely yours,
Victor Ciorbea
cinjtter
Mircea Ciumara
Minister of State
Minister of Finance
Alexandru Athanasiu
Minister of Labour and
Social Protection



I



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policy Matrix
Poltcv Area: Incoine Tratisfer Programssfor l'ul,aerable Groups - (i) Child Alloiswnces; (ii,) Alinjinium Incomile Giuarantee Scihemne (MIG); wed (iii) Social Sciholarships.
Objectives                                    Measures Adopted by Board Presentation                            Follow-up Measures
UJtilize existing income transfer programis to partially compensate the   For child allowances:
most vulnerable groups for the iiuimediate costs of the stabilization  *  htcrease of universal child allowance to Lei 50,000  .  Implementation of monthly Incremental Family
and adjustment program.                                             per month paid to all childreni as of Febrtary I,     Allowance of Lei 30,000 for families with two children,
*  Provide assistance to children from poor households to remain in     1997.                                                 of Lei 80,000 for families with three children, and of Lei
school.                                                          *  Presentation of an Ihplementation Plan for the        1 10,000 for families with four or more children as of July
*  Make stnictural adjustments in the Social Assistance System to       hicremental Family Allowance Program.                 1,1997.
provide, in the future, for a more efficient income support system for   *  Government approval of Draft Law on the (i)
population groups falling belox the povertv line.                   hitroduction of hicremental Family Allowances
Program and the (ii) Exclusion of Incremental
Family Allowances in the calculation of income to
establish eligibility under the Minimum Income
Guarantee Scheme.
lFor Alminntuntr iconme Guarantee Schenie (AIIG):
*   Full indexation to inflation of benefit levels under    a   Completion of the evaluation of the NUG program and
the MIG program                                      the preparation of the NIG refonn program, including an
*   Increase of budgetary allocations to tlle MIG         adequate finaniciiig meclanism.
moiuIItiiig to 0 29 percent of GDP tinder- 1997 local  *   Until restructured, continued full inidexationi of M G
budgets estimations.                                 benetit levels.
*   Preparation of Tncms of Referenices for the       *   Presentation of the monitoring reports prepared by
evalmution of tle MIIG prograin and appointment of   Prefects on tise of tUG tunds by December 31, 1997.
the evaluation teani through Ministerial Decision  .   An evaluationi and subsequent reform of the entire raiige
*   Parliamentary approval of the 1997 Budget Lax%        of social assistance benefits, (both cash and mi kind), in
which specifies that Central Govenunlent wage tax    conjtunictioni with the refonm of the vI4G program, that
rcallocations to Local Govenmncits wvould be used    would provide aim efiTcienit and well targeted social
giving priority to social assistance expenditures    assistance sYstem.
*   Pllrime Minister's communicationi to Prefects of
Judets on the use of Central Govenmment "vage tax
reallocations, for the MIG program.
For Social Selmolarslipys.
*   Full iiidexation to intlationi of social scholarships  .  Continuation of ftill iiidexatioii of benefits under Social
provided through the school s\stem as a              Scholarships.
complement to the MinimLm  Income Guarantee
Scheme



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Policy lrea: Direct Transfer Prograins (Ii-Kin   or l-'nl,erable Gro
oro Social Caifeetis anld Souip Kitcheis:                            *  Preparation of the Draft Law oD social canteens.   *   Governuent approval of a Draft Law on social canteens
.  Assure access to food fbr vulnerable populationi groups not reachied  *  Preparation of the Tenns of References for the       by June 1, 1997, and subsequent Parliament approval
througil Minimumil Incomlie Support Schlieme and other cash transfer  design of a Soup Kitchen Program in major cities.      including legal provisions for the Soup Kitchen Program.
programs.                                                         *  Increased budgetary allocation amounting to 0. 17   *   Design of the Soup Kitchen Program for five major cities
i                                                                   percent of GDP for social feeding programs in 1997     in Romania in collaboration with NGOs.
I                    .                                              local budgets projections.                         *   Implementation of the expanded social feeding prograns
in canteens and through soup kitchens.
For Instituatouualized Care:
*   Improve effectiveness of social programs bv establishing altemnative,   *  Full indexation to inflation of food prices, of the food  *  In 1998, establishment of Social Services Departments in
famiily-based social programs to reduce institutionalization.        budgets in institutions taking care of vulierable      all Judets, to assist vulnerable population groups
*  Assure adeqtiate budget availability in institutions taking care of   population groups (cihildren and families at risk,     (children and families at risk, disabled, elderly, etc.) and
childreni, the elderly, disabled and other population grotps dependent  disabled, elderly, etc.) dturing last wage adjustments.  to prevent institutionalization where possible.
on institutionalized care.                                                                                               *  Full indexation of food prices for the food budgets for
institutionialized care units during future indexation
adjustments.
Cashi Pavnments for B,ead Subsidies:
.  Provide temporary incomile support to compensate low incomiie groups   *  Adoption of measures on temporary cash paynenits
for increases in bread prices caused by climiniation of bread subsidv.  (April to September 1997) to targeted population
groups to compensate for the increase in bread price
caused by die elimination of previous price controls
and subsidies on bread.
Elecmrcirv Life Linie Rafes.
*  Reduce impact of electric rate increases on the income of poor    *  Establishmnent of life line rates for electricity: for the
lousehiolds.                                                         first 50 kwhi per month per houselhold and for the
second 50 kwh.
Peow9 4Area: Pension Progranis - (i) Agricailtiral Pensions and (ii) State Pensions.
.  Contain povertz amongl pensioniers living on low agricultiural    *  Full indexation of agrictiutiral pensions to inflationi    *  Contintied full indexation to inflation ofagricultural
pensionis.                                                           as of February 1, 1997.                                pensions.
.  Prepare systemic refonis in Pensioni Programii to limit filture pensioni   .  Statement of reform intentions for the public pension   *  Presentation of new Pension Law to Parliament by
fund deticits.                                                       system (State Pension Fund) including tightening of    September 30, 1997. The law will tighten eligibilit\
eligibility criteria and improving contribution       cnteria for state pensions and introduce measures to
compliance in order to maintaini financial            improve contribution compliance, in order to maintain
equilibrium of the State Pensioni Fuiid               financial equilibrium ot the State Pension Fund.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Policy Area: Labor Market Mfeasures - (i) ticonte Support Programs and (ii) Active Labor AMarket Measures.
*  Provide support for displaced wvorkers who become uneiimploved in  For Severance Pavnients and Unenwlpvonent Benefits:  *  Continued full indexation of unemployment benefits to
industrial dowvn-sizing implemented under the FESAL program     *  Issuance of Government Ordinance establishing the    inflation.
eligibility criteria and the amount of payment   *  hiplementation norms for severance payments to be
under the Severance Pavment Program, with the       prepared bv end of Mav 1997.
financing mechanism
* Allocation of 0.44 percent of GDP for severance
payments uiider 1997 budget law.
* Full indexation of unemployment benefits to
inflation.
*  Provide assistance to unemiiploved displaced workers in reintegratiog  Active Labor.Market Aeasures:                 *  Implementation of the agreed active labor market
into the labor market.                                          .  Establishment of a Rapid Labor Redeplovment Team     program.
at the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
tlrough Ministerial Decision
*  Receipt of a letter from the Minister of Finaiice
addressed to the World Bank requesting an allocation
of US$ 10.5 million from the Employment and Social
Protection Loaii to a ne\N disbursement categor\ to
provide financin,g for acttve labor market measuLres.
Policy Area: Povert' Strateg'
*  Define operational strategies a)r selected povertv groups serlouslr  *  Presentation ot' the teniis of rcferenice (o the World  *  Preparation of a Povertv Strategy on hon to address
affected b! povertN and define a comprehensive long-tenn strateg\  Bank on a workshop series under the guidance ot'thie  poverty of'chiildreni and the unemploved
tor addressing struictural povert. not likely to be alleviated throuigh  Presidencv on ti) thc povertm of chlildren, and (ii)  *  Establishinent of a National Poverty Commission at the
econoillic gro\ll                                                  povertv of thc UneMPploN ed. in order to prepare an  Presidential or Prime Minister level to design a long-
operational strategy on ho\N to address povertv in   tenrn povert\ alleviation strategy.
these two high priority areas



ANNEX 3
Page I of I
ROMANIA
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING STEPS
(1) Time Taken to Prepare:    30 days
(2) Project Prepared by:     Joint Goverment/World Bank/European Union
Task Force which met in Bucharest/Romania
from Januarv 12 to February 8. 1997.
(4) Operations Committee:    April 7, 1997
(5) Appraisal:                 April 15, 1997
(6) Negotiations:             May 1, 1997
(7) Board Presentation:       June 3, 1997
(8) Closing Date:            December 31. 1997



ANNEX 4
Generated: May 7, 1997
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference              Last ARPP
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     Between             Supervision Rating
expected
Loan or   Fisca                                                                                                      and actual      Development  Implemeittattois
Project ID     Credit      I      Borrower                 Purpose               IBRD    IDA    Cancellations   Undisbursed    disbursementsM       Objectives       Progress
No.      Year
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 35
Active Loatis
RO-PE-8772    L34860       1992  ROMANIA    PRIVATE FARMER & ENT                    100.00    0.00           0.00           1.82            -2 18         S               S
RO-PE-8759    L34090       1992   ROMANIA   HIEALTH SERVICES REHA                   15000    000             000           5600             56.00         S               S
RO-PE-8771    L35930       1993   ROMANIA    TRANSPORT                              120.00    0.00           0.00          10.18           -14.82        HS               HS
RO-PE-8774    L37350       1994  ROMANIA   INDUSTRIAL DEV.                          175.00    0.00           0.00         140.87           107 37        U                U
RO-PE-8784    L37240       1994  ROMANIA    EDUCATION                                50.00    0.00           0.00          46.95             3 15         S               S
RO-PE-8777    L37230       1994  ROMANIA    PETROLEUM SECTOR REH                    175.60    0.00           000          150.77           101 17         S               U
RO-PE-8776    L38490       1995  ROMANIA    EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTECT.                  55.40    0.00           0 00          54.73            22 63         S               S
RO-PE-36013   L39760       1996  SNCFR           RAILWAY                            120.00    000            0.00         120.00            1500         S                S
RO-PE-8773    L39752       1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                    20.00    0.00           0.00          17.67             0.00        s                s
RO-PE-8773    L39751       1996  ROMANIA    FESAL                                    90.00    0.00           0.00          80 46             0.00         S               S
RO-PE-8773    L39750       1996  ROMANLA    FESAL                                   17000     000            0.00          70.00             9.26         S               S
RO-PE-8794    L39360       1996  RENEL           POWER SECTOR REHAB.                110.00    000            0.00         108.26            49.26        ll               U
RO-PE-8793    L40960       1997  ROMANIA    HIGHER EDUCATION                         50.00    0.00           0.00          50.00             7 20        S                S
RO-PE-8778    L40790       1997  ROMANIA    BUCHAREST WATER SUPP                     2500     000            0.00          24.97             1 97        S                S
Total                                                                             1,4110      0.00           0.00         932.68           35601
0
Active Loans          Closed Loans                Total
Total DisbILrsed (tBRD and IDA):                            466.45                 2.761.39                 3,227.84
of which has been repaid:                                  0.00                 2,191.00                2,191.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                            1,411.00                  571 22                 1,982.22
Amount sold:                                                  0.00                    19.78                    19.78
Of which repaid:                                             000                    19.78                    19.78
Total Undisbursed:                                          932.68                      .83                  933.51
a listetided disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation SummaTy (Fonn 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP). a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Ratitig Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the sonth
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



ANNEX4
Page 2 of 2
Romania
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 March 1997
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
------------IFC -------------  ------------IFC-----------
FY            Company            Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1992     Alcatel                     0.00     0.00     .69    0.00   0.00    0.00    .69    0.00
1994     Romlease                    5.00      .45    0.00    0.00   3.00      .45   0.00    0.00
1996     Danube Fund                 0.00     2.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      .40   0.00    0.00
Pending Commitments
1997     * EFES BREWERY             12.00     5.00    0.00    8.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



ANNEX 5
PNgc 1 of 2
Romania at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Centrol  middle-
Romanim       Asia  Income      Development dlamond
Population mid-1995 (millions)                        22.7       488    1.154
GNP per capia 1995 (USS)                             1,450     2.240    1,700                    Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                               32.9     1.093    1.961
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                         -0.2      0.4       14     GNP4
Labor1orce(%)                                          0.1       06        1      p GNP
per            K
Moat recent estimate (latest year avilablesJnce 1989)                             capita
Poverty headcount index (% of population)               22
Urban population (X of tot*l popuLaton)                 55        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 lv births)                 21        23       36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (I of popuotion)                  100                 78          -Romania
lliteracy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                        .                               - Lower-middle-income group
Gross pnmary enrolWment (% of school-age population)    93        97      104
Malo                                                  94        97      105
Female                                                92        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     19t5      1994     1995      Economic ratios'
GDP (billions USS)                           21.9     47.1      30.1     35.5
Gross domeste investmenUGDP                  40.4     33.0       26.9     25.7                Openness of economy
Exports of goods and nont-fator services/GDP    ..    22.9       24.9     27.6
Gross domestc savingstGOP                       .    37.2       24.9      21.2
Gross national aevings/GDP                      .        ..     25.2     23.6
Current account balance/GDP                     .      2.9      -1t7      -4.0     Savigs           k          Investment
Interest payments/GDP 11                      0.0      1.1       0.4      0.5
Total debt/GDP                                  ..    14.9       18.3     18.7
Totaldebtservie/exports 1                     0.0     18.7       8.5      12.0
Present value of debt/GDP                               1. 6.8                                   Indebtedness
Present value of debt/exports                            .      69.0
197t-84  1985-95     1994      1995  1994-04
(average annual growth)                                                                -Romania
GDP                                  5.1     -4.1      3.9       6.9       3.4           - Lower-middle-income group
GNPpercapna                          4.2     -4.0      4.1       6.1       4.7
Exports of goods and nfs                     -1.9     19.0       11.8     5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1994     1995
(% of GOP)
Agricuture                                                      20.1      20.4
Industry                                                        384      39.3         0
Manufacturing                                                              .        i.          .  -vc          94   s
Services                                                 -       416      403         20 .
Private consumption                                   58 9       61 a    66.5
General govemment consumption                          3.9       13 3     12.3                 -GOI   -GOP
Impons of goods and non-factor services               18.7      26.9    32.1
1975484  1985-95      1994     1995
(avenrge annual growth)
Agncuture                                              2.4        31       4.8
Industry                                              -6.5       5 2       9.4       20
Manufacturing                                 .         ,                               --
Services                                               -6 1      31        57 79                       92   9,   9.   95
Private consumption                                   -0 7        5 2     17 0        .0 -
General govemment consumption                   .      5.4       0 9      -2 4
Grosa domestic investment                             -3.5       -2.0      1 5
Importsofgoodsandnon-factorservices             .      1.1       116      141                -E.Poris    iiponev
Gross national product                        4.9    -4.1         4 0      5 9
Note: 1995 data are preiimmery estimates. Figures in italis are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds shOw four key indictors in the country (in bold) compared with rts income-group average. If daia are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1/!995 indicators caleulated from BOP estimwtes.                                                                     M  MUATASERaOM    XLssiS,



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1994     1995      Innation (1k)
Domestic pnces
(% change)                                                                            30
Consumer pnres                                                    137.0      32.0    2D0
Implicit GDP deflator                                    0.4      139.0      35.7
Government finance
(% of GOP)                                           2-
Current revenue                                         48.9       31.9      32.0    .00                    ;2    93    5-    9
Current budget balance                                  29.7        3.8       2.7
Overall surpius                                          12.1      -1.9      -2.6                -GDPdf -d CPI
TRADE
1975     1988       1994     1995       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
(millions UJS5)
Total exports (fob)                                   10,174     68067    7.492        2 50 -
Chemical products                                        0        487       707      itom
Common metals                                            0       1,065    1.392
Manufactures                                          6.949     3.952    3.158       7 500
Total imports (cif)                                    8.402      8,550    8.750
Food                                            .      160        392       535-
Fuel and energy                                       4.753      1,907    2.386      2 500
Capital goods                                         1.861       933     1.240
Export pnce index (1987=100)                                .                                8    90   9-   92   93   9.   95
Import pnce index (1987=100) JExpos  .lmpofl
Terms of trade (1987= 100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1994     1995
(millions USS)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services      5.812   10.920      7,097    8.943      'o 
Impons of goods and non-factor services       5.858    8.926      7.777   10.506
Resource balance                                -46    1.994       -680   -1.563       5
Net factor income                               -89     -613       -131     -234
Net current transfers                                               295      369       0
Current account balance                                                                    89   g      3   92   93  -.-  95
before official transfers                    -135    1.381       -516   -1.428       5         _ - _
Financing items (net)                            ..  -1,698         968     1,362
Changes in net reserves                          32      317       -452       66      -o
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill USS)             904    1,447       2,085     1 579
Conversion rate (local/US$)                       -      171    1.655,1  2,033.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1994     1995
(millions USS)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1994 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            211    7,008      5,512    6,653
IBRD                                           19    1.633       695       844
IDA                                            0         0          0        0                     ST       SRO
Total debt service                                1    2.064        619    1,082
IBRO                                           0       274         32       53                     (I/
IDA                                            0         0          0        0                                   I iMF
Composrtion of net resource flows                                                                 04\
Official grants                                0         0         93      100
Otricial crediors                             31       -61        642      689                   BM,         OML
Pnvate crediors                                 O     -645         92       64                    823        5%1
Foreign direct investment                      0         0        340      550
Portfolio equity                                0        0         76       52
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   160        0        226      340       A -IBRD8- Bilateral
Disbursements                                  19       49        263      129       B- IDA    D - Other -lialenii   F.Private
Principai repayments                           0       146          0        0       C -IMF                       G- Shon -temm
Netflows                                      19       -97       263       129
Interest payments                              0       127         32       53
Net transfers                                  19     -225        230       76
Intemational Economics Department
M VROMIDATAxSEWOM-G .iLS.3iVS?



ANNEX 6
Page I of 4
PROPOSED SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Tables and Graphs
TABLE 1: POVERTY INDICATORS
Number of Poor
(millions)      Poverty Gap %
Total                                    4.88              25.56
Rural                                    3.04              25.72
Urban                                    1.84              25.34
Occupation (Household Head)
Salaried                                 1.88              22.66
Self-Employed (non-Agr.)                 0.17              27.22
Self-Employed (Agr.)                     0.70              30.86
Unemployed                               0.56              32.62
Pensioner                                1.41              23.22
TABLE 2: INCOME EFFECT OF CHILD ALLOWANCES IN HOUSEHOLDS
Monthly Wage Mothly Child                 % Child             % Deviation
Number of Wage               Assumption    Allowances  Monthly Total Allowances in Total from Poverty
Earners           Children  1997            1997         Income 1997   Household Income  Line (+/-)
Average Wage
I Wage Earner    0          668232          0            668232        0                   357
1         668232         56000        724232         7.7                65
3         668232         208000       876232         23.7               20
2 Wage Earners    0          1336464        0            1336464        0                  357
1         1336464        56000        1392464        4                  218
3         1336464        208000       1544464        13.5               111
Low Wage
I Wage Earner     0         218457          0            218457        0                   50
1         218457         56000        274457         20.4              -37
3         218457         208000       426457         48.8               -42
2 Wage Earners    0          436914         0            436914         0                  50
1         436914         56000        492914         11.4               12
3         436914         208000       644914         32.3               -12
1) Average wage (net) 1996 (fourth quarter) = 426,625 lei/month
Projected average wage (net) 1997 = 668.232 lei/month
Low wage (net) 1996 (fourth quarter) = 139,500 lei/month
Projected low wage (net) 1997 = 218,457 lei/month
2) Poverty line for:
I person household 1997 = 146,155 lei/month
2 person household 1997 = 292,310 lei/month
3 person household 1997 = 438,465 lei/month
5 person household 1997 = 730,775 lei/month



ANNEX6
Page 2 of 4
FIGURE 1: SOCIAL EXPENDITURES, 1990-1994
35%-
30%
25%                                                                                                               13 1990
3199i
F   20%                                                                                                               01992
01993
U 1994
15% 
10%
5%
0%
Albania    Bulgaria    Croatia  Czech      FYRM      Hungary    Po,land    Romania   Slovakia   Slovenia
FIGURE 2: POVERTY AND OCCUPATION OF HOUSEHOLD HEAD, 1994
50
45
40
35
30
~25
o20
U5
10
Unemploed     SelfEmp, (Agr.)      SelffEmp. (non-Agr.)        Pensioners              Salaried



ANNEX6
Page 3 of 4
FIGURE 3: PERCENTAGE OF PENSIONERS IN POVERTY BY PENSION TYPE, 1994
30   --                    -  -  ~   -
25
20     -
o                                                                       O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0Urban
4.~15
06                                                                       a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rural
I 10
5
0
Industrial           Disability             Widows              Agricultural
FIGURE 4: PENSION REPLACEMENT RATES (NET WAGES), 1993
90%    _ __ ...... -_____          _     ----- __ ___ _. .           ..........__  _ ___ _ _----  _ _____ _--__ ___* 
80%    .|ii.....                                                              . 
70%
60%
50%     i    .                       l----                                      - ..
30%
10%
Macedonia    Poland      Croatia     Hungary     Slovak       Czech      Albania     Bulgaria    Ronmania



ANNEX6
Page 4 of 4
FIGURE 5: DAILY CALORIC INTAKE (AVERAGE PER CAPITA), 1994
4000                                                                                - --
3500
Y     3000
=   2500                                                            i--F National
fl -0+-Urban
-000 Rural
2000
1000
2        3         4        5         6        7         8         9        10
Decile



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 28758
220   ,                                                                                 *4                           28
K ANE                                                                     ROMANIA
H  U N G A R YI .                r                   @                  O    SS_ / { % BOTOSANI                      SELECTEDcmEs
HUNGARY                         ..  r             ../                        *                                                                                COUNTY fJUD  CENTERS
Saw          MARAMURES  \.(    SUCEAVA    .  3
." SATU  ma'e *    0Baio Mare                  ,~*socwvo 0D%e                                                             *    NATIONALCAIL
MARE                                                 J r-.._-                                       0                      COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
.. ,,    _                             * ,- .) _                            ... .... f      ? - _ . V       -.- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-4 -    BISTRITA -  .......c_,iIASI 
Zoloiicj     *1      .
Oradeoa >    S A  L A  J      X D   *,'\,N KILOM ............. i..                                      lOOt               / -         RILOMETERS
~~.  S A  LA  J I  ~~~~~~AS\...V\ 1                                                                          0     25     5      7.5  100
C                                     /                   \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEAM TPi.ro.       L~~0 0
,     B I H O  R         ,                                                                                                              0 CL    20  10  40  50  60
Clui-Napoc                                                              /.
M  U R E S                                    BocGIA  o A  C  Ahis mp VAna pSdo Ly Ut Mop
I                           Oirda0        4      T,g. Mu.y--'-                            B
riMrsHARGHITA                                                                D.p~t h  -d8k
,eI                           B  A  C  A  U         VASLUI                   Tho boundaries, -ol-rs denmion
'  STimirooro                                                                                   L,-.. -- HvndoOo  \  .   U  c                          and -ny o  noo s  on
ARAD                                              Miercureo Cj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c(D  L.-)~~~~~~    GIo~i-D.j            this atop d0 -at -ply, on tho part of
A|d                                                                                                        0                                       Th. World Rott Grnup, ory _dg-nnns
-N            0     SEVRI               ;    1.u .(/ 0  ALBA                               p                                                                                          - PRAHOVAt \  *,.   BL  o h e   t o En r
..*~~~ss...                                         0t,tn~~~~ias      ~~                            ..e.'~~~          ..n~ M*dany-edo-sm-t or-cOpt-c-S  F
460  ~~~~~~~~~                             ng ~~~~~~Albo bIa *j*~obbodro
De,a                                                  C       S -pS Ai
TIM/S . _                       \.       *,o S5Turnu   ~   >   fi:   \,  \\ SIBIU  CO sNAu                                                     2
~~~~     ,FuuETIMIS\-<  
Timioooro (        1.'(HEDOTA-a               \G L. Brasno                                                  ./
fotrasani~ ~ ~ ~~~1          ~      Br-                                    E
YUOLAI                                 pe-   DOJ})IRGU)-
-44- ((.RBIA/MONTENEGRO)>  c.=l,       '                                                    ~'BUZAU
../   Resito                                               AR     S    JfITica
CARAS-                                   .      im%                   .PA'    VA,
Tirg. ''                                                PRAHOVA \B  xn                      BRA/LA        '     TULCEA
,  ..                      _,rg lii  , V ,o ::OTrQMiue              /' ~                                                   Mncl  
22-SEVERIN    '                              24- BLCE   U L G
GORJ                                   t IPloies                                                      I
Tu-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
AIEHEDINT/I*                                                                                            .fnss
F E D  R E Pa..                   -,      CraiOLTCALARASI                                                                                           N-di
YUGOSLAVIA                                            DOLJ                                         CINUTANT
A'(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO).--"                           alle                   Craa -p          Aeooiwo                                                  CONSTANTA~* 
/                      /            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TELEORMAN .                                                               6- on i    L AC K
-. ,j   - fm4g .. .                                                                               S E A
221                                    2A4    BU LGA R IA                       26'                                      26'
MAY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.: P      7114   RO
Type~   PR



