Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12918
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3142-JO)
MARCH 29, 1994
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
Exchange Rate = USSI: JD .5705 (at Board approval)
USSl: JD .6798 (at project completion)
ABBREVTATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOP    -   Balance of Payment
C8J     -   Central Bank of Jordan
CEM    -   Country Economic Memorandum
DEF    -   Development and Employment Fund
ECGC   -   Export Credit Guarantee Corporation
EDF    -   Export Rediscounting Facility
EEL     -   Encouragement of Investment Law
FZC     -   Free Zone Corporation
GCFCG - Gulf Crisis Financial Coordinating Group
GDP    -   Gross Domesic Product
GNP    -   Gross National Product
IEC     -   Industrial Estate Corporation
JD      -   Jordanian Dinar
JEDCO - Jordan Export Development and Trade Centers Corporation
NGOs   -   Non-Government Organizations
PER     -   Public Expenditure Review
QRs    -   Quantitative Restrictions
REER   -   Real Effective Exchange Rate
SMI    -   Small- and Medium-Scale Industries
Government of Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
FLscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan -
Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (Loan 3142-JO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan - Industry and
Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (Loan 3142-JO) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa
Region, with a brief Part II prepared by the Borrower.
The loan's aim was to support the Government's structural adjustment program, in parallel
with an IMF stand-by arrangement. Within a framework of measures to ensure a competitive and
stable economic environment, the loan's specific conditionality addressed trade policy (reduction of
effective protection, elimination of import quotas, equalization of import and domestic taxation of
luxury goods, provision of export credits), investment promotion, rationalization of public
expenditures, and social issues (creation of an apex agency to coordinate poverty alleviation and
programs targeted to women). An extensive technical assistance (TA) program was included in the
operation to finance studies needed for the design of institutional reforms.
Implementation of the loan, which was approved in December 1989, was interrupted by the
Gulf crisis and war. This crisis disrupted the Jordanian economy, owing to the loss of exports,
workers' remittances and tourism earnings, and to the fiscal burden imposed by the sudden massive
inflow of refugees. But, following the end of the crisis, implementation resumed, disbursements
continued, and the loan closed on schedule.
Loan disbursements were hindered by the Government's inability to comply fully with the
Bank's procurement procedures. Compliance with the loan conditionality was only partial. Trade
liberalization succeeded in reducing effective protection, but an anti-export bias remains. Other
planned export-promotion and investment-incentive measures were not fully carried out. Although
some restructuring and better targeting of public expenditures did help to protect the poor during
the fiscal adjustment, the planned institutional arrangements aimed at coordinating poverty and
gender targeted programs did not materialize. The TA studies specified in the loan agreement were
completed, although they were financed through other sources.
On balance, the major accomplishment of this operation was to help the Government
maintain the momentum of structural adjustment in spite of the major obstacles created by the Gulf
crisis. Its overall outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development impact as modest and
its sustainability as likely. The PCR presents a good picture of the implementation experience and
outcome.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ITPAL'
(LOAN 3142-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  . ............................................................i
Evaluation Summary .iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity .1
Background.                                                                      1
Program Preparation.                                                            2
Program Objective and Description.                                              3
Program Design.                                                                 7
Program Implementation.                                                         9
Program Impact .12
Program Sustainability .17
Lessons of Experience .18
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .19
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN (aTPAL)
LOAN 3142-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) was expected to be completed by October
1992 on the basis of the second tranche release by late 1991. However, implementation of
the adjustment program was disrupted by the Gulf crisis which exacerbated the delay in the
second tranche release. The second tranche was declared effective in February 1992
following the end of the crisis and the resumption of the adjustment program. The loan
amount was fully disbursed, with the last disbursement made on October 20, 1992, and the
loan account was officially closed on December 31, 1992, as originally scheduled.
This Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Country Operations
Division of the Middle East and North Africa Region Department, on the basis of data and
reports available in the project files and discussions with the Borrower. Part II of this PCR
was prepared by the Borrower from its perspective.






- iii -
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ITPAL)
LOAN 3142-JO
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
Economic trends in Jordan had been influenced by its links to oil-
producing Gulf States and Jordan's narrow productive base. Following rapid
growth in the 1970s, the decline in oil prices and subsequent slowdown in
regional economies starting in the early 1980s, have adversely affected the
Jordanian economy. Demand for Jordanian exports declined, workers remittances
stagnated, and grant aid declined sharply. The Government did not respond
effectively to these adverse developments, concentrating its efforts on
protecting existing domestic enterprises and increasing expenditures to
stimulate domestic demand. The nominal exchange rate was maintained through
external borrowing and drawing down of reserves, and international
competitiveness of domestic production steadily eroded. In the second half of
the 1980s, exports fell, real GDP stagnated, the overall fiscal situation
deteriorated and the balance of payments position worsened.
The Government's response to the crisis, initiated in 1988, led to the
adoption of a comprehensive adjustment program in mid-1989. The budget deficit
was reduced, a significant exchange rate adjustment took place and a flexible
policy was adopted to maintain export competitiveness. The Government, the
IMF, and the Bank jointly developed a medium term macroeconomic framework, and
the Government and the Bank jointly developed a comprehensive trade and
industrial policy reform program; the latter formed the basis for the $150
million Trade and Industrial Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) and the former for
an 18 month IMF Stand-by Arrangement.
Objectives
Notwithstanding the macroeconomic adjustment measures implemented in late
1988, the economy continued its downward slide in 1989. The objective of the
ITPAL was to assist the Government in responding to the acute economic
difficulties by deepening its macroeconomic adjustment efforts and reforming
trade and industrial policies to lay the basis for sustainable long-term
growth. The ITPAL program, which complemented the IMF medium-term adjustment
program, initiated in 1989, sought to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of industry and trade and protect the poor from the adverse
impact of the adjustment policies, by (i) strengthening institutional support
for the growth of agriculture, manufacturing and commercial services on the
basis of export expansion and market diversification and efficient import
substitution; (ii) establishing a more uniform, less distorted incentive
structure in the economy through rationalizing the trade and investment
incentives regimes; and (iii) improving the effectiveness of service delivery
to the poor by creating an apex organization to coordinate the activities of
government agencies and NGO's.



- iv -
Implementation Experience
The ITPAL was approved by the Board in December,1989, and declared
effective in February, 1990; by June 1990, the first tranche had been
substantially disbursed. In December 1990, the Japan EXIM Bank provided $75
million equivalent in co-financing. The main problem experienced in
disbursements related to inconsistencies between the Bank's procurement
procedures and the existing Jordanian legislation. The second tranche was
originally expected to be fully disbursed by the end of March 1991. However,
implementation of the adjustment program was interrupted by the Gulf crisis
(August 1990 - February 1991), which undermined the macroeconomic framework,
delayed Government action on trade measures and the undertaking of ITPAL
studies. Following the crisis, the Government resumed the implementation of
the adjustment program, and entered into a new Stand-by Arrangement with the
IMF in February, 1992. Based on satisfactory progress made, the second
tranche of the ITPAL was released in March 1992 and the loan fully disbursed
in October, 1992; it was closed on December 31, 1992, as originally scheduled.
Results
The trade and industrial policy reform improved the incentive structure.
The average tariff protection rate and the disparities among sectors were
reduced between 1987 and 1992, and both external and internal competitiveness
increased significantly. Nevertheless, the anti-export bias, while
significantly reduced, still prevails. Merchandise exports responded strongly
to the new incentive regime, growing by more than 20% p.a. during 1988-92, and
GDP growth, after experiencing a severe drop in 1989, stabilized in 1990 and
1991, and accelerated in 1992. The impact of the policy reforms would have
been more pronounced for 1990 and 1991 if not for the effects of the Gulf
crisis, which disrupted Jordan's trade, reduced remittances and burdened the
economy with fiscal outlays for social services for the returnees from the
Gulf. The resulting pressures on the budget and balance of payments slowed
progress towards macroeconomic stabilization; the growth performance of the
economy was adversely affected and unemployment rose sharply. Since then the
implementation of the adjustment and stabilization program have contributed to
an encouraging recovery in 1992 with GDP growth of 11% and a sharp decline in
the fiscal deficit.
Progress in strengthening institutional support for exports was mixed.
Use of the Export Rediscounting Facility declined as the interest margin
reductions made its use less attractive to banks. Despite the streamlining of
the applications of incentives under the Encouragement of Investment Law, the
project screening process remains ambiguous. The Jordan Export Development and
Trade Centers Corporation, a joint venture funded by the public and private
sectors, has played a useful role in finding new markets for Jordanian
products following the disruption of traditional markets following the Gulf
crisis, but its effectiveness remains constrained by a shortage of manpower
and expertise.
Good results have been achieved in protecting the poor during the
adjustment period by restructuring the public expenditures. Despite the
overall reductions of public expenditures, spending on social sectors has been
well protected, with priority budget allocations for primary and secondary
education, which benefit the poor the most, and increased spending on health,



-v -
combined with improved cost recovery and an increased use of primary care
facilities. The coupon system for sugar, rice, and powdered milk was
rationalized to improve targeting in the social safety net. The results of
the apex agency, the Development and Employment Fund (DEF) established in June
1990, were mixed. Over time, DEF departed from its original concept of
coordinating the activities of other government agencies and NGO's, and
focused the bulk of its financing on direct lending to small enterprises.
Thus, while a recent review of the DEF confirms that initially it served as a
useful unemployment relief program to win public support for the adjustment
efforts, it may not be the most effective element of a longer term poverty
reduction program.
Sustainabilitv
The most important factor underlying the sustainability of the reform
efforts supported by the ITPAL is the strong commitment on the part of the
Jordanian authorities, which has been demonstrated both in the implementation
of the ITPAL program as well as in the more recent formulation of the next
Five-year Development Plan (1993-98), the draft document of which includes all
the key elements of the ITPAL-supported policy objectives.
The second important factor is that the reforms have been built on the
initial success in macroeconomic adjustment; therefore policy reversal is
unlikely. This pertains to the exchange rate adjustment and the deficit
reductions preceding the overall tariff reductions, and to the gradual and
steady implementation of each phase of trade policy reforms. Furthermore, the
recent economic recovery has reversed the decline in per capita income, and
the Government has undertaken to tackle poverty more forcefully.
Nevertheless, Jordan's reform efforts face serious challenges. Exports
finance only one-third of its imports, and the dependence on workers
remittances constitutes a major uncertainty to the long-term balance of
payments viability. Given the large external debt, Jordan needs exceptional
financing on concessional terms over the next two to three years and
successive rescheduling through 1998. In the interim it needs to continue to
pursue a set of policies aimed at concurrently reducing domestic expenditures,
and increasing domestic output in order to ensure that the benefits of trade
and industrial policy reforms are sustained.
FindinQs and Lessons Learned
The first lesson that can be drawn is that macroeconomic adjustment
should precede trade liberalization. The initial progress in fiscal
stabilization reduced the conflict between revenue generation and tariff
reductions and thereby reduced the likelihood of major policy reversals.
Further, the realignment of the exchange rate improved the overall relative
incentive structure, enhanced tariff revenue, and created the conditions for
tariff reforms at the later stage. Second, trade liberalization strategies
must be tailored to specific country conditions. In this case a phased
approached was followed. Third, is the importance of alleviating the adverse
effects of adjustment through well published schemes. Finally, the Bank's
standard procurement procedures may run counter to the objective of
facilitating the expansion of private sector participation in foreign trade.






HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN (ITPAL)
LOAN 3142-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:      Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
Loan No.:          3142-JO
RVP Unit:          Middle East and North Africa Region
Country:           Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sector:            Industry and Trade
BACKGROUND
2.    Economic trends in Jordan had been influenced by its links to oil-rich Gulf States and its
narrow productive base. In the 1970s the Jordanian economy enjoyed a high rate of growth and
achieved significant improvement in the standard of living. Such economic performance took
place in the context of increasing exports of goods and skills to the neighboring countries,
sustained inflow of workers' remittances, foreign aid, and investments. Near full employment was
reached in the early 1970s. The capital inflows and the accumulation of foreign reserves had
strengthened the Jordanian Dinar (JD). This, together with rising investment, rapid economic
growth and high liquidity in the economy, led to rapidly rising imports and widening trade deficits
from US$0.6 billion in the mid-1970s to about US$1.6 billion in the late 1970s, or 59 percent of
GNP. Despite the underlying instability in the economy, however, the authorities managed to
maintain fiscal and external equilibria; up to 1981, external indebtedness was contained and
inflation remained low.
3.    The rapid decline in oil prices and subsequent slowdown in regional economies, which
began in 1982, adversely affected the Jordanian economy. The demand for Jordanian goods and
services in the neighboring countries declined resulting in a decrease in Jordan's exports of
agricultural and manufactured goods to the region. A slowdown in out-migration of Jordanians,
along with the emerging macro-economic instability, led to stagnation in remittances and caused
domestic unemployment to rise. There was also a sharp decline in grant aid from the Gulf
countries beginning in 1982, which had financed about 30 percent of imports and amounted to
about 80 percent of the fiscal income.
4.    The Government did not respond effectively to these adverse economic developments in
the early 1980s. Instead, it concentrated its efforts on protecting the existing domestic
enterprises. This response was perhaps based on the assumption that the difficulties being
experienced by the oil exporting countries, and their consequences to the Jordanian economy,



were temporary. Thus, in the agriculture sector, a system of production licensing and subsidies
was adopted in 1985 to reduce the output of crops facing marketing difficulties abroad. In the
manufacturing sector, high import tariffs and bans on competitive imports were introduced in the
early 1980's to protect domestic producers from falling demand. Government expenditures were
also increased to stimulate domestic demand. In addition, the nominal exchange rate was
maintained, despite the pressure of domestic inflation, through external borrowing and drawing
down reserves.
5.    The consequence of this policy stance was a steady erosion in the international
competitiveness of domestic production which, along with the fall in regional demand, adversely
affected Jordan's exports, compounding the effects of declining remittances. Real GDP for most
of the second half of the 1980s stagnated. This was accompanied by a further deterioration in the
overall fiscal situation, with an increase in the budget deficit excluding grants to over 24 percent
of GDP by 1988. The balance of payments position worsened, and large overall deficits led to a
depletion of official reserves to a level of only half a month of imports. It was evident that the
situation was likely to worsen unless corrective policy action was initiated without delay.
6.    Recognizing the emerging crisis, the Government initiated a response in 1988, which
culminated in the adoption of a comprehensive adjustment program in mid-1989. The objectives
of the program were to redress macroeconomic imbalances, reduce distortions in the trade regime
and restore economic growth. Between 1988-1989, the Government undertook a number of
policy measures toward these objectives, which included a series of fiscal adjustments to reduce
the budget deficit including containment of military expenditure, reduction of consumer subsidies,
tax reforms to enlarge the revenue base and enhance revenue performance, and a large
devaluation of the exchange rate followed by the pursuit of a flexible exchange rate policy to
maintain export competitiveness.
7.    The Bank's economic and sector work during 1988-1989 assisted the Government in
framing the economic debate and choosing viable policy options. A report on Small- and
Medium-Scale Manufacturing (SMI) set out recommendations for an improved framework for
trade and incentives for investment and exports. The 1988 Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM) reviewed major macroeconomic trends and recommended policy changes through
adjustment of exchange rates, trade policy reform, social policies to deal with unemployment and
fiscal retrenchment to reduce the deficit. In early 1989, the Government's request for a trade
policy-based, quick disbursing, adjustment loan came in the wake of the implementation of the
reforms mentioned above.
PROGRAM PREPARATION
8.    The Bank responded positively to the Government's request by sending a Preparation
mission to Jordan in February 1989; IMF staff participated in this mission. The principal
objectives of the mission were: i) to assess Jordan's macroeconomic situation and identify the
areas where policy reforms are needed to complement the Government's ongoing stabilization
efforts; and ii) to formulate policy and institutional reforms to encourage industrial growth and
export diversification. In developing these policy measures, the Bank worked closely with the
Government in identifying the components of the policy-based operation, and in formulating the



-3 -
organizational framework required for the implementation of policy changes. The details of the
Aide-Memoire describing the likely agenda for the adjustment operation were discussed with a
Government committee consisting of representatives from the major Ministries and the Central
Bank of Jordan, and at the request of the Government, the Preparation mission also met with
H.R.H. Crown Prince Hassan.
9.    By working together, the Bank was able to develop, jointly with the Government, a
comprehensive trade and industrial policy reform program. The Bank has managed to convey to
the Government the need for implementing a set of policy and institutional reform measures
within an established time frame, while recognizing the political sensitivities involved, the
absorptive capacity of the country and the need for special attention to the impact of the policy
measures on the vulnerable segments of the population. In the meanwhile, prospects for
cofinancing were explored with the Japanese and German governments. In this context, it was
agreed with the Government that a medium-term macroeconomic framework supported by a
sound external financing plan would be the necessary foundation for the Bank to proceed with a
Trade and Industrial Policy Adjustment Loan. Subsequently, the Government reached agreement
with the IMF over an eighteen-month Stand-by Arrangement.
PROGRAM OBJECTIVE AND DESCRIPTION
10.   Notwithstanding the macroeconomic adjustment measures implemented in late 1988,
Jordan's economy continued its downward slide in 1989. The agriculture sector GDP declined by
over 11 percent, reflecting the unfavorable weather conditions, and the construction industry by
12 percent due to the lack of confidence in the business environment, and the short-fall in
remittances from abroad. Overall, real GDP declined by 13 percent in 1989. Imports of goods
and non-factor services in 1989 dropped by about 18 percent, due to the slack economic activity,
the depreciating JD and the declining remittances and tourist receipts. In view of the
depreciating JD and the decision not to increase the prices of basic foodstuffs, Government
expenditures on food subsidies rose significantly, amounting to about 3 percent of GDP. This,
together with the much larger external interest payments, resulted in a fiscal deficit of 21 percent
of GDP. Government borrowing was increased significantly, and domestic inflation was running
at 26 percent. The real interest rate was repressed to well below zero due to the ceilings imposed
(Table 1).
11.   The objective of the ITPAL was therefore to assist the Government in responding to the
acute economic difficulties by deepening its macroeconomic adjustment efforts, and by reforming
the trade and industrial policies to lay the basis for sustainable long-term growth. Toward this
broad objective, the ITPAL program incorporated a three-prong approach comprising measures
to: (i) complement the IMF medium-term adjustment program (initiated in 1989) in ensuring a
stable and competitive macroeconomic environment; (ii) improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of industry and trade; and (iii) protect the poor from the adverse impact of the
adjustment policies.
12.   In pursuit of these objectives, the ITPAL was aimed at: (i) encouraging a strong supply
response to the macroeconomic adjustment measures by strengthening institutional support for
the growth of agriculture, manufacturing and commercial services on the basis of export expansion
(with diversification into non-regional markets) and efficient import substitution; (ii) establishing a



- 4 -
more uniform, less distorted incentive structure in the economy by rationalizing the trade regime
and replacing the existing system of investment incentives by a simpler and more transparent one;
and (iii) improving the effectiveness of service delivery to the poor by creating an apex
organization to coordinate the activities of the Government agencies and the Non-Government
Organizations.
13.   The proceeds of the Bank loan, amounting to US$150 million, were to be disbursed
against general imports (i.e. imports excluding those in a negative list such as military or para-
military items, luxury goods, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, radioactive materials, nuclear reactors
and parts) in two tranches: US$75 million after the loan was declared effective; US$73.5 million
after the satisfactory completion of a set of agreed upon policy measures; and US$1.5 million to
finance technical assistance over the life of the operation.
14.   Release of the first tranche, after loan effectiveness was made contingent on the
following:
*     removing quantitative import restrictions and import bans on selected products
determined in agreement with the Bank:
-     reducing the maximum import tariff rate to 60 percent, except for a limited list of
luxury imports for which no similar goods were produced in Jordan;
*     increasing the minimum tariff rate applicable to imports to 5 percent, except for
certain capital goods and essential food items;
X     revising the Encouragement of Investment Law to streamline application of
investment incentives;
*     taking steps to improve the effectiveness of the Export Rediscounting Facility; and
*     maintaining the macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the objectives of
the program.
15.   The release of the second tranche was made contingent on maintaining a sustainable
macroeconomic situation and on meeting specific criteria which were classified into four areas:
*     Restructuring public expenditure. Preparation and implementation of a public
expenditure restructuring program based upon an exchange of views thereon with
the Bank;
*     Restructuring of the tariff svstem. Implementation of measures to simplify the
tariff administration with the introduction of the harmonized system, replacement
of specific tariff rates with ad valorem rates, and setting tariff rates at multiples of
5 percent; reducing the maximum tariff rate applied to imports from 60 percent to
50 percent, except for certain luxury goods; and agreeing on a program specifying
the future steps and timing therefore for the equal taxation of these excluded
luxury goods and similar locally produced goods.;



*     Institutional support for export and investment promotion. Adoption of an action
plan for the merger of the Industrial Estate Corporation (IEC) and Free Zone
Corporation (FZC) and a national investment and export promotion program, and
ratification of revisions to the provisions of the Encouragement of Investment Law
on the discretionary elements of incentives.
*     Protecting the poor during the adjustment period. Establishment of an agency to
coordinate the governmental and non-governmental organizations engaged in
assisting the poor.
16.   The technical assistance component of US$1.5 million was to finance studies required for
the effective implementation of the envisaged institutional reforms. These studies included:
(i)    A study to merge the Industrial Estate Corporation (IEC) and the Free Zone
Corporation (FZC) and to prepare an export and investment promotion strategy;
(ii)   A review of Industrial Standards;
(iii)   A review of the institutional arrangements in export finance; and,
(iv)   A study to determine the optimal structure and procedures of an Apex agency for
protecting the poor.
All the above studies were carried out and completed:
(i)   the study to assist GOJ in defining an action program to support the merger of
IEC and FZC and to determine the role and strategy of the institution created
after the merger was funded by UNDP and conducted by the International Trade
Center; the export and investment promotion strategy under the same study was
completed in September 1990.
(ii)  the study on industrial standards to improve quality and reliability of Jordanian
exports, local products and imports, was conducted with the assistance of the
German government through a GTZ project. It included a number of legislative
and administrative changes in the standards system. In May 1989, GOJ
promulgated a temporary law on standards and specifications. The Government's
efforts to further improve the system was assisted by the Bank through its
economic and sector work;
(iii)  the study to improve the institutional arrangements for export finance was funded
by USAID and conducted by the First Washington Associates, Inc. The feasibility
study provided valuable recommendations for creating an Export Credit Guarantee
and Insurance Agency;
(iv)  the study to determine the optimal structure and procedures of an Apex agency
for protecting the poor was funded by USAID and completed in April 1990 by the
Jordan Institute of Public Administration which recommended an agency along the
lines envisaged under the ITPAL. Subsequently, the Development and



- 6 -
Employment Fund (DEF) was established in June 1990 to coordinate and improve
the efficiency of the existing institutions working on social development and small
productive projects.
The consultants' performance was satisfactory. There were no significant delays except for those
attributed to the Gulf crisis. Resources were deployed directly through the financing agencies.
17.   Procurement. As provided in the Loan Agreement, contracts for the procurement of
goods (both public and private sector procurement) each costing the equivalent of US$5 million
or more were to be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits". However, for contracts below US$5 million equivalent, the procurement procedures that
were to be followed differed for public sector purchasers and private sector purchasers. Public
sector purchases below US$5 million were allowed under Borrower's public procurement
procedure, subject to the Bank's review of the contracts; for private sector purchasers,
procurement followed the established commercial practice on the basis of comparison of
quotation from suppliers from at least two countries, excepting the use of direct contracting
procedures acceptable to the Bank. For private sector procurement for contracts between US$2
and US$5 million, the Borrower encountered difficulty with the Bank's standard provision under
the Loan Agreement requiring quotations from two suppliers, given the nature of private sector
contracting in Jordan.
18.   There were extensive discussions on the issue of procurement procedures, in particular
those that were to be followed by public sector purchasers. In September 1990, Bank
management considered it appropriate for the Bank to be responsive to the needs of our member
countries affected by the Gulf crisis by exercising flexibility on our procedures. Subsequent to this
the Borrower requested to amend the legal document, for the reasons indicated above, to:
i) increase the ICB threshold from US$5 million to US$6.9 million. The Borrower pointed
out that an additional US$32 million would be eligible for financing if ICB thresholds were
increased to $6.9 million, thus expediting disbursement on previously awarded contracts.
ii) increase the threshold from US$2 million to US$5 million for private sector contracts
requiring competitive bids from at least two countries (Sch. 3, para 2(b) of Loan Agreement). It
is the practice of many private firms in Jordan to purchase from established business relationships
without obtaining bids. The Borrower was not in a position to change the procurement practices
of these firms to increase the number of contracts under the ITPAL financing; and
iii) increase the US$30 million ceiling on food imports (already reached under the first
tranche) to US$65 million (Sch. 1, para. 3(g) of Loan Agreement). Food constitutes 31 percent
of Jordan's yearly imports while the percentage of food permitted to be financed under the
ITPAL represents only 20 percent of the total loan. In addition, demand for food imports
incrcased with the influx of the returnees and refugees.
19.   While the Bank would not agree under normal circumstances to the proposed amendment
to the procurement procedures, in view of Jordan's immediate requirements for funding caused by
the Gulf crisis, the Bank agreed to items (ii) and (iii) on an exceptional basis, and waivers of the
respective provisions in the Loan Agreement were issued. With regard to item (i), US$5 million



- 7 -
was the threshold limit established for this purpose, and the Bank considered that it would be
inappropriate to set a precedent.
PROGRAM DESIGN
20.   Experiences from countries going through trade policy reform suggest that trade policy
adjustment succeeds best in a stable economic environment. The phasing of the adjustment
measures should complement the process of fiscal stabilization, and should be supported by the
active pursuit of exchange rate and interest rate policies. The experiences also show that trade
reform is more effective when complemented by efforts on the supply side through reforms of
industrial policies and improvement of institutional supports, and that tariff reform is more
effective when coordinated with reforms of the domestic tax. The design of the ITPAL bears
salient features in all these aspects.
21.   The overall objective of the ITPAL was to complement the initial progress in macro-
economic stabilization by encouraging a strong supply response through improvement in the trade
incentive regime. By 1990 the adjustment efforts had produced positive results and provided for a
relatively stable environment in which restructuring of the tariff regime could take place. The
tariff adjustment measures were phased in with a view to complementing the fiscal adjustment,
and were supported in a timely fashion by continuous adjustment of exchange rates, de-control of
interest rates as well as by supply-side policies. The design and implementation of tariff reforms
paid particular attention to the ultimate goals in domestic tax reforms--such as tailoring the
scheme of tax equalization to the design and implementation of the General Sales Tax, as well as
protecting the domestic revenue base and finally, to the need for alleviating measures to protect
the poor during adjustment.
22.   The ITPAL had been preceded by the initial success in fiscal stabilization. By 1990, the
fiscal deficit excluding foreign grants had been reduced to 18.7 percent from well above 24
percent in 1988 with increases in revenue accounting for most of the deficit reduction. Domestic
inflation as measured by CPI was brought down to 16 percent in 1990 from 26 percent in the
previous year. Two major factors contributed to the increase in fiscal revenue. First, the
adjustment of foreign exchange rate that took place during 1988-89 had resulted in a depreciation
of the JD by 25 percent in real terms. The first order effect of the adjustment was that the JD
value of imports rose and the tariff revenue accrued to the central government increased, thus
creating a stronger revenue base for the subsequent tariff reductions.
23.   Second, the initial phase of the trade reform was focused on removing the import ban on
luxury items, converting quantitative restrictions to tariffs and reducing tariff exemptions, thus
increasing tariff revenue by shifting (potential) quota rents to the public sector. This first phase
of tariff reform was followed by reductions and restructuring of tariffs and reforms of supply side
policies during the second phase; and tax equalization in the third phase (see para.31). This
approach ensured that the initial trade policy reform measures i.e., the conversion of quantitative
restrictions (QRs) to tariffs and reductions of tariff exemptions, resulted in an increase in tariff
revenues, therefore strengthening the sustainability of tariff reforms.
24.   The trade reform under adjustment was complemented by liberalizing nominal interest
rates, thus adjusting real interest rates to international levels. The liberalized interest rate policy



has facilitated financial deepening (as measured by M2lGDP, see table 1), and helped to establish
a stable financial system, attractive to the reflows of capital and complementary to the pursuit of
an active and flexible exchange rate policy.
25.     The full benefits from  trade liberalization can only be realized when corresponding
changes have been made in the industrial policy framework In this regard, the ITPAL contained
a number of initiatives on the supply side. It set out to simplify the procedures for investment
approval, expand the eligibility criteria for investment incentives provided under the
Encouragement of Investment Law (EEL), and reduce the discretionary elements in EIL.
Furthermore, the ITPAL entailed measures to facilitate export finance, strengthen institutional
support for export development, improve the industrial infrastructure as well as the industrial
standard.
26.     The trade adjustment measures were also accompanied by measures to protect the poor
during adjustment. The timely Public Expenditure Review and the effective protection of
essential public spending on programs benefiting the poor (see para. 4849 below) went a long
way toward alleviating the adverse effect of adjustment on the poor. Finally, there were mutual
understanding and agreement at the onset between the Borrower and the Bank over the
conceptual foundation of the program, its design and major policy objectives. There were some
divergent points of view relating to the implementation and choice of measures to achieve the
policy objectives, but they were swiftly resolved to mutual satisfaction (see para. 31).
TABLE 1: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(In percentage, unless otherwise indicated)
1985     1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
GDP Growth                                6.1       7.7      2.6      -0.5    -13.5       1.7      1.8      11.3
Annual % Change in CPI                    3.0       0.0     -0.2       6.6     25.8      16.1      8.2       3.8
Current Account Balance/GDP 2/          -19.9    -11.2      -7.7    -14.0    -17.2    -29.1    -21.5    -22.7
Growth of GNFS Exports (BOP,S)              ..    -19.1     16.2       0.4     -3.7       2.7     -3.2      5.3
Growth of Non-Traditional Exports(BOP,S)1/..    -24.9       18.6      -4.8     -2.6       5.3     -2.2       7.3
Growth of GNFS Imports (BOP,S)              ..    -15.6      3.3      -3.7    -18.4       9.6     -2.7     22.8
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP            21.7      21.2     25.2      25.7     25.9     28.8      24.0     31.6
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP              -17.4      -7.8     -4.6      -2.4     -2.2    -16.3    -15.8    -17.8
Growth of Real Consumption Per Capita   24.8       -4.7     -4.0      -5.9    -16.8       7.9     -9.3      8.7
Import Duties/GDP                         5.9       5.2      4.9       5.1      4.3      4.3       4.5      6.3
Overall Budget Deficit/GDP 2/           -21.6    -13.7    -21.7    -24.0    -21.0    -18.7    -17.8         -4.0
Real Average Interest Rate (lending)    10.8        8.8      8.3       5.3     -9.9        .4      6.5      6.2
M2/GDP                                   95.2      98.0    109.7    119.6    128.3    119.4    133.7    122.6
Real Effective Exch Rate (1980=100)    110.4    101.6       91.1      79.5     67.1      59.6     60.9      59.4
Nominal Average Exchange Rate          0.3950   0.3500   0.3380   0.3715   0.5705   0.6636   0.6807   0.6798
Salter Ratio                            101.2    100.0      99.6      96.9    100.1    100.9    116.8    117.6
Notes :
1/ Exports of GNFS excluding potash, phosphate, and fertilizers.
2/ Excludes grants.



-9-
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
27.   Implementation Arrangement. The Ministry of Planning was responsible for the
implementation of the operation, and the Central Bank of Jordan for collecting all supporting
documents, preparation and submission of withdrawal applications, and maintenance of necessary
accounts for the loan funds. The Bank monitored the progress of program implementation
through regular supervision and consultations with the Govemment. The operation's account,
including the Special Account, was audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
the annual audit report was submitted to the Bank within six months of each fiscal year.
28.   Compliance with tranche conditions. Conditions for the first tranche release (see para.14)
were fully met. The Government had taken measures, before the end of November, 1989, to
reduce the maximum tariff rates to 60 percent, increase minimum tariffs to 5 percent, remove
quantitative restrictions on imports, and improve the operation of the Export Rediscounting
Facility. Finally, the progress in macro-economic adjustment had been sufficiently maintained.
29.   Subsequent to the implementation of these measures, the MAL was approved by the
Board on December 14, 1989, and was declared effective on February 26, 1990, one month earlier
than was originally anticipated. By June 1990, US$73.2 million against the first tranche had been
disbursed.
30.   GOJ requested the Export-Import Bank of Japan (Eximbank) to finance urgently needed
imports required during the adjustment program. On December 31, 1990, a Co-lenders'
Agreement was entered into between the World Bank and Eximbank. Eximbank granted GOJ a
loan in Yen equivalent an aggregate amount of US$75 million for the program on a parallel basis
with the World Bank loan. The supervision of the procurement process and replenishment
notification was carried out by the World Bank in accordance with its standard procedures. The
first tranche of US$37.5 million equivalent was released in December 1990; the second tranche
for the same amount was disbursed in July 1992.
31.   The implementation of the adjustment program was, however, interrupted by the Gulf
crisis (August 1990 - February 1991). The crisis disrupted Jordan's trade, reduced remittances and
burdened the economy with fiscal outlays to fund social services for the returnees from the Gulf.
These factors exerted pressure on the budget and balance of payments, and thus slowed the
progress towards macroeconomic stabilization. The growth performance of the economy was also
adversely affected and unemployment rose sharply. More importantly, because of the trade
embargo on Iraq, and the blockade of the port of Aqaba it was not possible for the Government
to timely implement the tariff restructuring measures under the MAL  Furthermore, completion
of the studies commissioned under the ITPAL was delayed by the disruption of international
travel and uncertain situation in the country during the crisis, and this in turn delayed the
implementation of institutional reforms envisaged under the program.
32.   The crisis exacerbated the nature of economic problems confronting Jordan including its
worsening credit standing, and compressed import capacity. During the months immediately
following the Gulf crisis, the Bank focused its support to Jordan on mobilizing external assistance
including technical analysis to support aid flows from the GCFCG, and the formulation of a sound
medium-term financing plan.



- 10 -
33.   The Government in the meanwhile, resumed the implementation of the adjustment
program which culminated in a new Stand-by Arrangement approved by the IMF Board on
February 26, 1992. By then, the Government had taken the following measures to fully comply
with the conditions for the second tranche release:
*     The public expenditure review was conducted and the recommendations of the
review were endorsed and adopted including: the elimination of subsidies on lamb
and beef; reductions of subsidies on sugar, rice and milk; increase of electricity and
water tariffs, and charges for sewerage and railway transport;
*     Tariff reforms were implemented including: (i) introduction of the harmonized
system; (ii) replacement of specific tariff rates with ad valorem tariff rates;
(iii) setting tariff rates at multiples of 5 percent; and (iv) reducing the maximum
tariff rate to 50 percent, except for certain luxury goods;
*     National investment and export promotion programs were adopted under the
TPAL, and institutional reforms were implemented;
3     A Development and Employment Fund (DEF) was established with the objective
of coordinating governmental and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in
assisting the poor.
Following the satisfactory progress made in the macroeconomic program, the second tranche was
released in March 1992.
34.   Problems in Implementation. Some problems were encountered in implementation
pertaining to three main issues:
(i)   Tendering Procedure
Some conflicts between the Bank's procurement procedures and the existing Jordanian
legislation and general import needs of the country came to surface during the first few
months of the ITPAL These included the requirement by the Jordanian legislation (for
public sector purchases) that foreign bidders be locally represented which contradicts the
Bank's guidelines; the increase in threshold limits on private sector imports; and increase
on ceiling for food imports as mentioned in paragraph 18 (i), (ii), and (iii). After
extensive discussions, including a field visit by the Bank's procurement specialist,
agreements were reached to: on the part of the Borrower, the removal of the above
restriction on foreign bidders and, on the part of the Bank, an agreement to waive the
respective provisions in the Loan Agreement on the threshold limit and ceiling for food
imports (see paragraph 19).
(ii)   Egualization of Tax on Competing Luxury Imports and Similar Domestic Goods
The implementation schedule of tariff reforms reflected the practical problems in
collecting taxes from small-scale enterprises, and therefore allowed for a sufficient period
of three years for fully achieving the tax equalization scheme. Overall, the tariff reform



- 11 -
program provided for retaining above 50 percent import duties on a specified list of
competing luxury goods on the condition that such a tax was applied equally to imports
and similar domestic goods. A total of 87 import items belonging to six commodity
categories (tobacco products, special soaps, clothing and footwear, furniture, luxury
building materials, refrigerators and television antennas) were earmarked for such equal
taxation (These goods accounted for 2.5 percent of total import value in 1989). In
practice, however, clothing, footwear, and furniture categories (74 items) were mostly
produced by small-scale enterprises and workshops which do not keep systematic records
of operation, and tax collection would be difficult. Reflecting this practical concern, it was
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower that tax equalization was to be achieved for
about one-third (in terms of 1989 import value) of the goods on the original list during
the life of the ITPAL, and that tax equalization for the remaining items would be
implemented over the next two years in line with the proposed General Sales Tax scheme.
The share of these goods (by value) in total commodity imports in 1992 was about 2.3
percent.
(iii)   The Merger of Industrial Estate Corporation (IEC) and Free Zone Corporation(FZC)
The Jordanian authorities made serious attempts to merge these two organizations.
However, the prevailing problem surrounding FZC has prevented the proposed merger.
So far, the FZC continues to serve as a service center supporting the re-export of trade
with the neighboring Arab countries. Nearly all the companies established in the Free
Zone are in the trading rather than manufacturing business. The predominant trading
role of the Free Zone has been compounded by the increased demand for transit trade
following the Gulf crisis, therefore merging the two organizations has proven to be more
difficult.
35.   Disbursement. Disbursements were made on the basis of 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for foreign exchange costs of imported goods. A Special Account with an initial
deposit of US$15 million was established at the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) in order to ensure
speedy disbursements. Withdrawals for expenditures of less than US$2 million were permitted on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures. Retroactive financing was permitted up to US$29
million (20 percent of the loan amount) against expenditures made after July 1, 1989. This
retroactive financing was justified by the advanced actions already taken by the Borrower in key
areas of the policy reform, and provided critically needed financing for goods and services for
which no other financing was available. All the studies specified in the Loan Agreement were
financed through other sources. Therefore funds (US$1.5 million) earmarked for technical
services were reallocated and utilized for general imports. The second tranche was originally
expected to be fully disbursed by the end of March 1991. However, due to the delay in
implementation caused by the Gulf crisis, the loan amount was fully disbursed on October 20,
1992; the loan was officially closed on December 31, 1992, as originally scheduled. The CBJ
maintained records of all disbursements, including the Special Accounts, and separate accounts for
amounts disbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure.



- 12 -
PROGRAM IMPACT
36.   The objective of the trade and industrial policy reform was to improve the incentive
structure and thereby change the behavior and performance at the micro level by inducing greater
competition into the previously protected domestic economy. The efficiency gains entailed by the
change in the incentive regime were to be achieved both through increased output growth given
the level of input and a shift in resource allocations from the inefficient to the efficient sectors.
The transition, however, to a more open trade regime can impose short-run adjustment costs
resulting from the greater exposure to increased competition. The change in behavior and
performance at the micro level cannot be fully assessed given the limited scope of this report, and
the relatively short period of time for the change to manifest. Therefore, the following section,
based on preliminary data and stylized facts, intends to evaluate the impact of policy reforms on
the tariff incentive regime, the response of the economy and export sector to the new incentive
regime, the effectiveness of the institutional measures to support the policy reforms, and the
effectiveness of public spending and programs to alleviate the adjustment costs on the poor.
37.   Impact on the Tariff Structure. The average tariff protection rate and the disparities
offered to different sectors of the economy were reduced. The import duties are now more
evenly spread on different domestic consumers and industries, and tariff revenues now come from
a wider range of product groups rather than concentrated on the high-tariff product groups as
before.
38.   Table 2 shows that the weighted average tariff rate was reduced from 34.4 percent in 1987
(prior to the ITPAL) to 25.0 percent in 1992, and that uniformity in the tariff structure was
increased. The tariff coefficient of variation has been reduced from 167 in 1987 to 88.5 in 1992,
and the tariff frequency rates have been simplified to multiples of 5 percentage point. The
weighted average tariff rate for the groups falling between 5.1 - 10.0 has slightly increased. Those
for all other groups above 10 percentage point have been reduced significantly. There are now
only 5 items with no import tariffs (except for a 2 percent fee for overtime payments for customs
officials) as compared to 9 items in the 1987 schedule. The minimum tariff rate of 5.2 percent
(including a 0.2 percent fee to pay customs officials for overtime work) was applied to 87 products
ranging from live animals to fertilizer.
39.   The effective rate of tariff protection for the manufacturing sector declined from 42
percent in 1987 to 27 percent in 1992, reflecting the cumulative impact of tariff restructuring on
the input and output sides. During this period, the weighted average tariff rate on intermediate
goods increased marginally, from 16.0 percent to 18.0 percent, while the average tariff rate on
final goods decreased significantly, from 35.6 percent to 25.0 percent. It is important to note
that these estimates do not capture the impact of the removal of QRs and the replacement of
specific tariff rates with ad valorem rates. When they are taken into account, the actual
magnitude of the decline of the effective protection levels would be much greater. However, the
authorities continue to maintain high tariffs for non-competing luxury imports, the number of
which, at weighted average rate of 72 percent in 1992 as compared with 86 percent in 1987,
increased from 424 to 500. These products accounted for 16.6 percent of total values of imports,
and provided for 47.6 percent of tariff revenues in 1992.



- 13 -
TABLE 2 : DISTRIBUTION OF NOMINAL TARIFF RATES
1987
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
COEFFICIENT OF   SHARE OF         SHARE OF   TARIFF REV 3/ IMPORT VALUE   TARIFF 4/
TARIFF RANGE 1/            VARIATION 2/  IMPORT VALUES   TARIFF REV    (JD mil)             (JD mil)        CX)
  -
0.0 - 5.0                   26.6            15.7             1.4            2.4            79.6            3.1
5.1 - 10.0                   0.1            24.4            5.1             8.9           123.3            7.2
10.1 - 20.0                   10.9            4.3            2.2             3.9            21.8           17.8
20.1 - 30.0                    7.8            7.3             5.3            9.2            36.9           25.0
30.1 - 40.0                    6.4           13.0            13.1           22.8            66.0           34.5
40.1 - 50.0                    5.9           13.1            17.4           30.3            66.4           45.6
- 50.1                        65.4           22.2            55.5           96.6           112.5           85.8
TOTAL                        166.9          100.0           100.0          174.1           506.6           34.4
1992
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
COEFFICIENT OF   SHARE OF         SHARE OF   TARIFF REV 3/ IMPORT VALUE   TARIFF 4/
TARIFF RANGE               VARIATION 2/  IMPORT VALUE    TARIFF REV    (JD mit)             (JD mit)         C)
0.0 - 5.0                     0.0            2.8             0.0            0.1            60.5            0.2
5.1 - 10.0                  25.7            32.6             9.8           53.6           717.8            7.5
10.1 - 20.0                   8.3            18.9             7.8           42.9          415.2            10.3
20.1 - 30.0                    8.4           13.8            12.7           69.8           303.8           23.0
30.1 - 40.0                    6.5           10.0            13.2           72.4           219.3           33.0
40.1 -50.0                     5.3            5.4             8.9           49.1           118.1           41.6
>> 50.1                      59.2            16.6           47.6           261.5           365.3           71.6
TOTAL                        88.5           100.0           100.0          549.4         2200.0            25.0
1/ Defined at the 8 digit level of the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature (BTN) codes.
2/ Standard deviation divided by mean.
3/ Assuning there was no exemption.
4/ Weighted by nominal import values.
Sources : Based on data provided by Customs Department, Department of Statistics, and Ministry of Planning
40.      Impact on the Overall Incentive Structure. In assessing the impact of policy reforms on
the competitiveness of the Jordanian economy, it is important to focus on two aspects of
competitiveness: external competitiveness as reflected by the relative price of domestic and
foreign goods, and internal competitiveness as measured by the relative domestic prices of
tradable and non-tradable. External competitiveness determines the ability of domestic firms to
maintain or increase their market share both in foreign and domestic market(s) relative to that of
foreign competitors. Internal competitiveness determines the ability of tradable good industries to
attract resources.
41.      The measure commonly used in determining external competitiveness is the real effective
exchange rate (REER); trade-weighted bilateral nominal exchange rates vis-a-vis trading partner
countries adjusted for relative inflation between these countries and the domestic economy. As
can be seen in Table 1, Jordan's external competitiveness as seen in the REER (profitability of
both import-substitution and export production) improved considerably throughout the period
under consideration and the improvement has been more marked since about 1988.



- 14 -
42.   Internal competitiveness is measured in terms of the so-called "Salter" ratio', the ratio of
the domestic price of tradable to non-tradable. As Table 1 shows, the ratio has significantly
increased since 1989 reflecting improved profitability of tradable good production over non-
tradable good production in the economy.
43.   It is evident that the policy reforms have enhanced both the external and internal
competitiveness of the Jordanian economy as defined above. Nevertheless, the question remains:
within tradable production, what has happened to the relative profitability of exports compared to
importables (i.e. import-competing goods)? Preliminary estimates suggest that a clear anti-export
bias still prevails, although it has been reduced considerably by the tariff reforms under the
ITPAL. At present, import-competing goods still enjoy considerable tariff protection both
through lower tariff on input and higher tariffs on final products. Most of the import-competing
goods belong to higher tariff brackets. These tariffs are essentially taxing export production. The
existing duty-rebate and export rediscounting facilities in their present form of operation have not
been successful in redressing this bias.
44.   The Impact on Economic Performance. The tariff reforms, along with the flexible foreign
exchange rate policy stance pursued since 1988, has strengthened Jordan's competitiveness in the
agriculture and manufacturing industries. The major realignments of exchange rate that took
place during 1988-89 resulted in the depreciation of JD by 25 percent in real terms. Export of
goods responded strongly to the new incentive regime. Total exports in dollar terms grew by
more than 20 percent per annum during 1988-92, and non-traditional exports grew at an even
more rapid rate of 28 percent. The pursuit of a competitive exchange rate policy has been
complemented by the removal of ceilings on interest rates. The resultant, positive real interest
rates have enhanced financial deepening in the economy: the M2/GDP ratio increased from an
average level of 110 between 1985-88 to 130 between 1989-92 (Table 1). This, in turn, has
helped attract the capital retlows and increased the availability of real loan funds for the
expansion of private sector investment.
45.   With the surge in exports, and the increase in imports financed, to a larger extent, by the
increases in workers' remittances as well as foreign transfers, GDP growth, after experiencing a
severe drop in 1989, stabilized in 1990 and 1991, and accelerated in 1992 (Table 1). The impact
of the policy reforms would have been more pronounced for 1990 and 1991 if not for the
disruptions caused by the Gulf crisis. In the first four months following the outbreak of the Gulf
crisis (in August, 1990) Jordan's GDP at factor cost fell by over 20 percent on an annualized
basis; Jordan lost its export market in Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait; income in the transit
transport and trade; income from travel and tourism; and for a brief period, worker's remittances
as well. At the same time, Jordan had to bear unexpected outlays to shelter the returnees. In
1991, the adverse impact of the Gulf crisis was compounded by the bad weather conditions and
the consequent drop in the agriculture production as well as the decline of the mining sector
output. And, as much of the investment during 1990 and 1991 went to the residential
construction (at about 10 percent of GDP or over 35 percent of the total official estimates of
fixed investment), and to the provision of services to the returnees, the effects of these
j/ This nomenclature is due to Corden (Corden, W.M., 1990, "Exchange Rate Policy in
Developing Countries" in Jaime de Melo and Andre Sapir (Eds.) Trade and Economic Reforms:
North, South, and East. Oxford: Basic Blackwell for the World Bank.



- 15 -
investments on the rest of the economy fell far short of compensating for the loss of production
and income resulting from the Gulf crisis.
46.   Rationalizing the Export Rediscounting Facility. The Export Rediscounting Facility (EDF)
administered by the Central Bank of Jordan provides funds to finance exports through commercial
banks at a discount. Two objectives were set out under the ITPAL to rationalize the EDF:
i)    reduce the average interest rate margin to exporters to about 5 percent, and hold
it constant by changing the rate of discount to reflect commercial lending rate;
and,
ii)    offer a lower discount rate for exports to non-traditional markets.
47.   Accordingly, the authorities adjusted the discount rate to hold the average interest rate
margin to about 5 percent to exporters. In addition, a two percentage point rate differential was
offered for goods destined to traditional and nontraditional markets. At the same time, the
eligibility for use of EDF was expanded to cover virtually all exports. Effective from January
1991, the value added threshold for access to EDF was reduced from 40 percent to 20 percent,
and in August 1992, the EDF financing as a share of the total export value was increased from 60
percent to 75 percent and from 80 percent to 90 percent respectively for pre-shipment and post-
shipment credit facilities.
48.   Notwithstanding the measures above, the use of EDF has declined since 1990; as a share
of the total export finance, it was only 4 percent in 1992 compared with over 10 percent in 1990.
In terms of JD value, the EDF amounted to only JD 24 million in 1992 as compared with JD 71
million in 1990. Possible reason seems to be that given the low operational margin permitted in
handling EDF as compared to the operational margin relating to general lending under the
prevailing market lending rates (10 to 13 percent) commercial banks do not show active interest
in promoting lending under the scheme. Such practice is consistent with the healthy liquidity
position of banks which has reduced their reliance on the central bank credit including EDF. In
any case, the EDF in its present form does not seem to play an active role in promoting exports.
Moreover, as against the operational criteria stipulated in the ITPAL, the subsidy element
involved in EDF (the difference between the discount rate and the average commercial bank
lending rate) has widened, rather than reduced. In fact, the two percentage point discount rate
differential was removed and a single discount rate at 5 percent was set for all exports in August,
1992. This discount rate has been reduced to 3.5 percent in 1993. Recently, the processing
margins allowed for commercial banks in handling the EDF was increased from 1.5 percent to
over 2.0 percent. The Government seems to be aware of the inadequacy of the EDF, and is in
the process of establishing an Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC), which may entail
measures to address the problems in the EDF.
49.   Encouragement of Investment Law (EILJ. The EIL was established in 1989 to provide
incentives for investment projects in manufacturing, mining, agriculture, hospitals, and tourism. It
has been used to encourage investment in the rural area, using high technology or capital
intensive. The EIL offers income tax and customs duty exemptions to the projects that meet at
least one of the above criteria. This law was revised in October 1991 to streamline the
application of investment incentives. However, the EIL remains ambiguous regarding project
screening process and provides for an arbitrary differentiation between economical and approved



- 16 -
economical projects. A proposal to amend the Encouragement of Investment Law (EIL), with a
view to strengthening the objectivity in prospect selection, has been discussed by the Cabinet.
50.   Jordan Export Development and Trade Centers Corporation. The Jordan Export
Development and Trade Centers Corporation (JEDCO) is a joint venture operating with funds
from both the public and private sectors. In the last two years, it has played a useful role in
finding new markets for Jordanian products in response to the disruption of traditional markets
following the Gulf crisis. JEDCO has organized export exhibitions and participated in
international trade fairs abroad. The corporation is currently implementing the Export Trade
Service project funded by USAID with US$1.0 million to study the US and European markets,
and forged cooperative relations with other bilateral and multilateral agencies. JEDCO has
maintained good contact with the United Nations Commission on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) and the European Economic Community (EEC). The shortage of manpower and
expertise in marketing has proven to be a serious constraint to strengthening JEDCO's
effectiveness.
51.   Protecting the Poor During Adjustment. The Government envisaged two vehicles to
protect the poor during the adjustment period in order to alleviate the social distress, and to win
broad-based social support for the adjustment efforts. First, restructuring the public expenditure
in line with the recommendations from the "Public Expenditure Review" prepared by the Bank to
both protect the budgetary allocations on health, education and social services going to the poor,
and to improve targeting of the poor in the social safety net by reducing general subsidies.
Second, creating an Apex agency to coordinate NGO and government activities in assisting the
poor. The Government also envisaged on-lending the bilateral donor funds through the Apex
agency to employment generating micro-projects.
52.   Good results have been achieved by restructuring the public expenditures. Despite the
overall reductions of public expenditures, spending on education, health and other social services
has been well protected. In education, primary and secondary education, which benefit the poor
the most, have received priority in budget allocations since 1988. The budgetary costs in
education as a whole are moderate relative to the quality of services provided. In health, the
Government has adopted measures to improve cost recovery and the use of primary health care
facilities. Overall, public spending on health care service has been increased both as a share of
GDP and in real absolute value, which has enabled the public institutions to continue service to
the poor and vulnerable. In line with the PER recommendations, the protection of essential
spending on social sector services has been facilitated by reductions of spending on non-essential
items. In this regard, the Government took major decisions to curtail spending on military
equipment, and to withhold increases in civil service salary during 1990-91. The Government also
eliminated subsidies for mutton, beef, and maize. Rationing coupon system for sugar, rice, and
powdered milk was introduced in order to improve targeting in the social safety net. The prices
of water, electricity, and diesel fuel were increased to reduce the fiscal claim on the Government
and to strengthen the financial viability of the public utilities.
53.   The results of the Apex agency were mixed. The Development and Employment Fund
(DEF) was established in June 1990. By March, 1992 the DEF had financed 15 projects to be
implemented by NGOs, and had made loans to specialized credit agencies, to the Agricultural
Credit Corporation (ACC) and the Small Scale Industries and Handicrafts Corporations (SSIH)
for on-lending to micro-businesses. These activities were widely perceived by the public as a



- 17 -
particular assistance effort made by the Government to alleviate the adverse impact of the
adjustment on the poor. However, over time DEF has departed from its original concept of
being a small Apex organization which would coordinate other government agencies and NGOs,
and focused the bulk of its financing on direct lending to small enterprises. A review of DEF
has confirmed these deviations, and considered that while DEF has served as useful
unemployment relief program to win the public support for the adjustment efforts, it may not be
effective element of poverty reduction program from a longer-term point of view.
54.   Environmental Protection. The ITPAL was designed to implement policy reforms in the
industry and trade sectors. Its loan covenant prohibited the importation of hazardous materials
such as radioactive materials and fuel elements. Environmental protection is being dealt with
more in the context of the follow-on adjustment operations (Energy Sector Adjustment Loan -
ESAL and the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan - ASAL). Under these operations, GOJ
would strengthen its efforts in natural resource managements in conformity with internationally
acceptable environmental guidelines; it would adopt environmental standards for protection
against air and water pollution, designate a responsible authority to monitor and enforce
environmental regulations in the energy sector, and undertake policy adjustments for water quality
control and agricultural chemical monitoring.
PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
55.   The most important factor underlying the sustainability of the reform efforts supported by
the ITPAL is the strong commitment on the part of the Jordanian authorities. In his Letter of
Appointment of the present cabinet, King Hussein reiterated the continuation of stabilization-
cum-market oriented reforms as the basic tenet of Jordan's economic policy. The authorities'
commitment has been demonstrated both in the implementation of the ITPAL program as well as
in the more recent formulation of the next Five-year Development Plan (1993-98), the draft
document of which includes all the key elements of the ITPAL-supported policy objectives.
Furthermore, support from the IMF for Jordan's adjustment efforts has been strong.
56.   The second important factor is that the reforms have been built on the initial success in
macroeconomic adjustment, therefore policy reversal is very unlikely. This pertains to the
exchange rate adjustment and the deficit reductions preceding the overall tariff reductions, and to
the gradual and steady implementation of each phase of trade policy reforms as described above
(para. 18). Furthermore, the recent economic recovery has reversed the decline in per capita
income, and promised to improve the living standard for the Jordanian people; in this context, the
Government has also undertaken to tackle poverty more forcefully. This development, along
with the more open public policy debate under the on-going political liberalization, is likely to win
broader public support for the adjustment program.
57.   Notwithstanding these positive factors, Jordan's reform efforts face serious challenges.
Jordan's current export income could finance only one-third of its imports, and its dependence on
the flow of worker's remittances constitutes a major uncertainty to the long-term balance of
payments viability. In the short-run, Jordan's ability in mobilizing domestic savings is very limited.
Given the large external debt, Jordan needs exceptional financing on concessionary terms over the
next two to three years and successive rescheduling through 1998. In the interim, however,
Jordan needs to pursue a set of policies aimed at concurrently reducing domestic expenditures,



- 18 -
and increasing domestic output in order to ensure that the benefits of trade and industrial policy
reforms are sustained. These policies entail: (i) maintaining a flexible and competitive exchange
rate stance; (ii) further reducing and rationalizing the tariff structure, and at the same time
broadening the tax revenue base and improving tax efficiency through adopting the general sales
tax--eventually income tax as well so that policy makers use tariff policies as the primary
instruments to maintain trade competitiveness rather than to raise revenue; (iii) redressing the
anti-export bias (as shown in the Salter ratios in table 1) by revamping the existing duty drawback
scheme and export re-financing facilities; (iv) reducing public sector deficit so as to increase
domestic savings.
58.   The Bank's assistance strategy over the next 3-5 years is to help Jordan sustain the
achievement in macroeconomic adjustment by focusing on sector structural reforms, as well as
carrying out of the tax policy reform to complement the tariff reforms under the mTAL. The
Bank would also assist the Government in its external financing strategy by helping Jordan to
mobilize the concessionary financing needed to close the resource gap, and to compress the
period during which per capita consumption is expected to fall.
LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
59.   The first lesson that can be drawn is that macroeconomic adjustment should precede trade
liberalization. In Jordan's case, the initial progress in fiscal stabilization reduced the conflict
between revenue generation and tariff reductions and thereby reduced the likelihood of major
policy reversals. Further, the realignment of the exchange rate improved the overall relative
incentive structure, enhanced tariff revenue, and created the conditions for tariff reforms at the
later stage. Second, is the importance of tailoring a trade liberalization strategy to specific
country conditions. Here, a phased approached was applied. The first phase under the ITPAL
emphasized conversion of QRs into tariff, elimination of tariff exemptions and creation of export
finance facilities, and the second phase, the general reduction of tariffs and increasing the tariff
uniformity, which was to be followed by efforts to equalize tax increases with tariff reductions.
Third is the importance of alleviating the adverse effects of adjustment through well published
schemes, such as protecting essential public expenditure programs benefiting the poor, supporting
the self-help programs and financing of well targeted employment generating micro-projects.
However, the intervention through DEF has not turned out to be 100 percent successful,
especially when it is measured in terms of cost-effectiveness, and targeting the poorest segment of
the society.
60.   Finally, there is the amendment to the tendering procedure. A key BOP objective under
trade policy adjustment lending is to facilitate the expansion of private sector participation in
foreign trade. The strict adherence to the World Bank standard tendering procedure, which
seems to have been formulated mostly to cater to the import procurement requirements of large-
scale (and mostly public-sector) projects may run counter to this objective. Thus, in order to
maximize the private sector's share, there seems to be a need to consider appropriate adjustments
to the standard procurement requirements by taking into account existing trade practices of the
private sector and its import requirements. In the Jordanian case, the failure to do so at the
outset resulted in an unexpected delay in loan disbursement and a presumable loss of the full
benefit of the lending operation to the private sector, until the basic inconsistencies were
redressed at a later stage.



- 19 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
This part of the Project Completion Report analyses the key issues of the Industry and
Trade Policy Adjustment Loan from the standpoint of the Government of Jordan. It
reviews the project in terms of concept, design and implementation. Then it gives an
overall assessment of project achievement. The report was prepared by the Ministry of
Planning, Central Bank of Jordan and Ministry of Finance/Customs.
2     Project Concept and Design
There was agreement on the project concept between the Government of Jordan and the
World Bank. In fact, the project was designed to support and complement the
government's ongoing stabilization and structural reform efforts which had been initiated
in 1988. During negotiations, however, there was some disagreement about the
procurement procedures which caused some difficulties and delays in disbursement of the
loan during implementation.
3.    Project Implementation
3.1   Tendering and Procurement Procedures
The Loan Agreement stipulated that the Bank's Procurement Guidelines be adhered to.
These require the international bidding be used for tendering and procurement of any
goods and services financed by the Bank. This stipulation was in conflict with Jordanian
legislation as well as with established commercial practices. Although some agreement was
reached later on for financing contracts of US$ 5 million and less, the benefits that could
have been reaped were reduced by limiting the number of beneficiaries especially in the
private sector. No contracts above US$ 5 million were financed.
3.1.1  Private Sector Procurement
The private sector in Jordan is a relatively developed sector with established
commercial practices and direct and extensive connections with international
markets. The Bank agreed to finance contracts obtained under such practices for
amounts that are less than US$ 2 million.
For contracts between US$ 2 and 5 million the Bank required offers to be
obtained from at least two different sources. This condition was difficult to meet
since private importers generally had established links and contacts with specific
foreign companies.



- 20 -
For contracts above US$ 5 million the Bank's Procurement Guidelines had to be
adhered to, and no such contracts were financed.
This shows that strict adherence to the Bank's Guidelines was very difficult. The
established practices of the commercial sector, at least, as far as procurement
procedures are concerned, should have been taken into account at the outset.
3.1.2  Public Sector Procurement
Existing Jordanian legislation for public sector tendering and procurement
conflicted with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines in two ways:
a.    Jordanian legislation requires bidders to have local agents or
representatives, while eligibility conditions of the Bank do not include such
a stipulation. Therefore, tenders issued with the additional condition did
not qualify for financing under the loan. This led to delays and difficulties
in financing import contracts, and necessitated the issuance of a special
waiver for foreign companies from having a local agent or representative
for the purposes of this loan. This was accepted by the Bank for contracts
for less than US$ 5 million only.
b.    Jordanian legislation requires insurance of imported goods to be covered by
Jordanian companies or companies with local agents. This necessitated
that quotations from foreign bidders based on FOB or C & F. However,
bid evaluation, according to the Bank Guidelines, should be done on the
CIF quotations. Consequently offers based on FOB or C & F were not
eligible.
No contracts above US$ 5 million were financed since international competitive
bidding was required for such contracts.
The above mentioned conflicts between Jordanian legislation and the Bank's
Guidelines should have been addressed and resolved earlier, in order to avoid
delays and realize the full benefits of the loan.
3.2   Policy Reforms and Institutional Support
Tariff reforms were undertaken according to the conditions of the loan agreement. The
main problem encountered was with respect to the equalization of tax on competing
imported and domestically-produced goods. A list of commodities earmarked for equal
taxation was identilied and included clothing, footwear and furniture. These items are
mostly produced in small workshops which do not keep systematic records. Therefore,
practical difficultics in collecting the tax would have been encountered. Agreement was
reached to implement that part within the context of the proposed General Sales Tax.
Institutional reforms for export and investment promotion and for protecting the poor
were also undertaken. Although delays in completing the studies required for these



- 21 -
reforms were encountered due to the eruption of the Gulf crisis, these studies were
completed satisfactorily.
4. Project Achievement
Overall, the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The timing and sequencing of
the project were appropriate at two levels. First, the project provided much needed
foreign exchange at a time when Jordan was suffering from reduced foreign exchange
inflows that exacerbated the existing budget and current account deficits. Second, trade
policy reforms came after the initiation of macroeconomic stabilization and reform policies
complementing the government's efforts in this respect. These efforts resulted in
increased confidence in the economy which stimulated private sector activities and
enhanced Jordan's competitiveness in external markets.
All throughout the duration of the project, the Bank was cooperative. Various Bank
missions were sent to assist in resolving problems and in the implementation of policy
reforms.



- 22 -
JORDAN
INDUSTRY AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN (3142-JO)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
As of May 31, 1993
Original    Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid          Outstanding
150.0         150.0          0        0                  150.0
Original Loan Date              Actual
Initiating Memorandum           1/12/89                    5/05/89
Letter of Dev. Policy                                     11/26/89
Negotiations                    9/20/89                   11/06/89
Board Approval                 10/31/89                   12/14/89
Loan Agreement                                             1/05/90
Effectiveness                   4/05/90                   2/26/90
Loan Closing                   12/31/92                  12/31/92
Actual Completion                                         10/20/92
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY90      FY91    FY92    FY93
(Amounts in US$ million)
(i)   Planned             75        100      150
(ii)  Actual              73         73      103      150
(iii) (ii) as I of (i)   97          73       69      100
Date of final disbursement:  October 20, 1992
MISSION DATA
No. of   No. of         Staff       Date of
Month/Year    Weeks    Persons         weeks       Report
Preparation          2/89           2          7            14         3/06/89
AnDraisal            5/89           3          5            15         6/20/89
Supervision I       12/89           2          2             4        12/14/89
Supervision II       6/90           1          1             1        07/12/90
Supervision III    11/91            2          2             4        11/20/91
Completion           4/92           2          2             4        06/30/93



- 23 -
Staff InDuts
FY89    FY90         FY91       FY92    TOTAL
Preparation                 75                                        75
Appraisal                    6      27                                33
Negotiation & Board                 12                                12
Supervision                         18           14         15        47
Total          81      57           14         15        167
Bank Loans Related to ITPAL
Loan No.       Prolect                Amount    Board Date        Effectiveness
Ln. 3355    Industrial Exports         $15.0     Jun 21, 1991    Nov. 13, 1991
Ln. 3568    Transport III               35.0     Mar 11, 1993           NYE
Ln. 3574    Health Development          20.0     Mar 16, 1993           NYE
Follow-on Adiustment Operations (Planned)
Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL)           Preappraisal - January 1992
Appraisal    - April 1993
Board Date   - September 1993
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL):  Preappraisal - Late 1993
Appraisal    - January 1994
Board Date   - July 1994



- 24 -
Persons Interviewed
Mr. Mohammad M. Asfour
Chairman
Amman Chamber of Commerce
(Subject: Private sector perception of the trade policy reform)
Mrs. Nelly Batchon
Head
Foreign Investment Department
Central Bank of Jordan
(Disbursement of ITPAL and problems encountered in procurement of imports under ITPAL)
Dr. Fahed Al Fanek
Economist and Financial Consultant
and Economic Writer- AL Rai and Jordan Times
(An overall discussion on trade policy reform)
Mr. Ali Abu-Rumman
Controller
Domestic Banking Department
Central Bank of Jordan
(Export credit rediscounting scheme)
Mr. Jamail Gammouh,
Head, Encouragement of Investment Division
Ministry of Industry and Trade
(Encouragement of investment law)
Mr. Eyad Al-Iqda
Deputy Director
Ministry of Planning
(An overall discussion on ITPAL and its implementation)



- 25 -
Dr. Abdalla Malki
Research Director
Jordan Bankers' Association
and Economic Writer- Jordan Times
Dr. Michel Marto
Deputy Governor
Central Bank of Jordan
(The role of CBJ in import procurement under ITPAL and the problems encountered in this
operation)
Mr. Abdul-Haleem I. Mohasin
UNDP Economist
Ministry of Planning
(An overall discussion)
Mr. Khaled M. Rababa
Deputy Director
Customs Department
(Duty drawback scheme, import licensing and other charges on imports)
Mr. Nazmi Abdulah
Director, Tariff and Value Director
Customs Department
(Tariff reform)
Mr. Nazmi Abdulah
Director, Tariff and Value
Customs Department
Mrs. Rula Salah
Head, International Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Planning
Mr. Ali T. Dajani
Advisor, Amman Chamber of Industry
Mr. Ghaitth K Sharaiha
Director, Exports and Foreign Relations Department
Amman Chamber of Industry



