RETURN TO
RETUR   DESKRESTRICTED
REPORTS DESFILE                                    Report No. TO-602a
WITHIN              FIE         JOP
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing-their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION -AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD ROAD PROJECT
MEXICO
January 11, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Peso                 =    US$0. 08
12.5 Pesos             =    US$1. 00
1 Million Pesos        =    US$80, 000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1               -    December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
METRIC: BRITISH/US EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)       =    0. 62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                 3. 28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)         =    2. 47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)            =    0. 22 Imperial gallons
(I gal)
=    0. 26 US gallons
(US gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)        2204 pounds (lb)



MEXICO
AFPRAISAL OF A THWrt ROAID PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY                                                           i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                      1
A. Proposed Project                                               1
2.   BACKGROUND                                                        2
A. General                                                        2
B. The Transport Sector                                           2
C. Transport Coordination                                         3
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                                5
A.  Highmray Administration                                       5
B.  Highway Planning                                              6
C.  Highway Engineering                                           6
D.  Highway Construction                                          7
E.  Highway Maintenance                                           7
F.  Previous Bank Highway Projects                                8
4.   THE PROJECT                                                      10
A.  General Description                                          10
B.  Cost Estimates and Financing of the Project                  12
C. Design Standards and Execution of the Project                 14
5.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                          17
A.  Summary                                                     17
B.  Traffic Forecasts                                           17
C.  Calculation of Economic Benefits                            17
6.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMEDATIONS                                  21
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a Bank mission to Mexico
consisting of Messrs. D. Bickers, M. van Gent, F. M4endoza and R. Paraud.



TABLES
1. Railway Statistics
2. Length of Highways 1955-1966
3. Number of Motor Vehicles Registered 1955-1965
4. Highway Expenditures 1955-1967
5. Cost Estimates of the Project Highways
6. Analysis of Construction Cost Estimates by Items
7. Project Highways: Design Standards
8. Project Highways: Length, Type and Surface
9. Project Highways: Traffic Forecasts
CHART
Organization of the Secretariat of Public Works
MAP
Main Highway Network



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD ROAD PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Mexico has asked the Bank for a loan to assist
in financing the expansion and improvement of its Federal highway network.
A suitable project comprises:
(a) the reconstruction and resurfacing of three
primary roads totalling 1,231 km;
(b) the improvement and bituminous surface treat-
ment of four tertiary roads totalling 885 Iom, and
(c) the construction, including asphaltic concrete surfacing,
of one primary road, 66 km long, and the provision
of right-of-way.
ii.       The total cost of the proposed project,including contingencies,
is estimated at US$ 76.2 million equivalent, of which the Bank will finance
US$ 27.5 million equivalent, representing the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent of cost. The remainder will be provided by the Government through
annual appropriations in the Federal Budget.
iii.      The Bank has already made four loans to Mexico for financing the
expansion and improvement of its highway network, two for Federal highways
and two for toll facilities. The quality of the works executed is satisfac-
tory but delays and cost increases have occurred, due mainly to the prelimi-
nary status of engineering at commencement of the projects. The present
status of engineering preparation and procedures for supervision proposed in
connection with the present project are expected to avoid these problems in
the future.
iv.       Traffic on the three primary roads to be reconstructed is already
heavier than they were designed to accommodate, and their widening and re-
surfacing would allow substantial savings in journey times and vehicle opera-
ting costs. The four tertiary roads to be improved were originally designed
to gravel standards, but traffic has grown on sections already open to an
extent which now justifies provision of a light surfacing and associated
improvements. The new road to be constructed is required primarily to shorten
the journey distance for through traffic on an important trunk route, and
to provide access for this traffic to a Bank-financed road recently completed.
v.        The project is technically sound and economically justified.   The
rates of economic return range from 12% to 23% on investment. It is expected
that all the work will be completed by October 1971.



- ii -
vi.       The agency responsible for execution of the project will be the
Secretariat of Public Works (SOP) acting through its Directorates, which
have a sound organization with clear lines of authority. The staff is
qualified and experienced, and consultants will not be required for the
project.
vii.      Design standards adopted for the project roads are satisfactory.
Detailed engineering has been completed for all the works included in the
project. The cost estimates are considered to be reliable and adequate
contingencies have been included.
viii.     The works to be financed by the Bank will be awarded through
contracts placed after international competitive bidding, apart from
minor or specialized works which would be awarded locally on a competitive
basis. The Government has agreed to revise certain bidding procedures
to encourage broader international competitive bidding and to improve
the efficiency of civil works execution.
ix.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$ 27.5 million equivalent. An appropriate term would be 20 years
including a h-year grace period.



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD ROAD PROJECT
1. INTROWCOTION
A. Proposed Project
1.1       In September 1966 the Government of Mexico asked the Bank to assist
in financing a Third Road project as rart of its program fAr the
expansion and improvement of its Federal highway network. The Government
originally submitted technical and economic information to the Bank on 20
highways, but in January 1967 the Government proposed Bank financing for only
14 of the roads.
1.2       A Bank mission comprising Messrs. D. Bickers, M. van Gent,
F. Mendoza and R. Paraud visited Mexico in February/March 1967 to appraise
the proposed project. The mission subsequently recommended that six of the
roads should not be included in the project proposed for Bank financing
because of insufficient engineering preparation or inadequate economic
justification. The project recommended by the mission comprises the re-
construction of three primary roads totalling 1,231 km, the improvement of
four tertiary roads totalling 885 km and the construction of a new section
of primary road 66 km long. The total cost of the proposed project is
estimated at about US$ 76.2 million equivalent of which the Bank would
finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of US$ 27.5 million equivalent.
1.3       Between 1960 and 1965 the Bank made four loans to MIexico for the
development of its highway network.  Loans 268-ME and 354-ME were for im-
provement and expansion of the Federal highway system and for the purchase of
maintenance and laboratory equipment; Loans 317-ME and 401-ME were for im-
provement and expansion of toll facilities including highways, bridges and
the purchase of a ferry boat. The total amount of the four loans was US$ 127.5
million equivalent (para 3.15).



-2-
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.1       Mexico covers an area of nearly two million sq. km, which is more
than three times the size of France. Much of the country is mountainous, and
because of inadequate rainfall large areas are still sparsely populated,
though extensive schemes for irrigation and agricultural development have
recently brought about appreciable expansions in cultivated land.
2.2       More than half the total population of 44 million is concentrated
in ten states in the middle of the country, covering only 14% of the total
area, and centered on the capital, Mexico City. Although the population as
a whole has been increasing by 3.3%p.a. oxer the past decade - one of the
highest rates in the world - it has been growing three times faster in urban
than in rural areas. This reflects the country's progress from a subsistence
to an exchange economy, the increasing emphasis on industrial production, and
the substantial impact of tourism on the urban service industries. One result
has been a rapid expansion in the demand for transport facilities, particu-
larly for movements between the urban and rural areas.
2.3       Since 1950, the growth rate of iMexico's gross national
product has been about 6%p.a. one of the highest in Latin America. Per capita
income now exceeds US$ 490 p.a.
B. The Transport Sector
2.4       The railways have played a predominant role in meeting Mexico's
transport needs during the past century. Over the past 20 years, however,
as a result of improved highways, together with growing demands for more
flexible and varied services than the railways can offer, there has been a
rapid expansion in highway use. Except for passenger traffic, this has not
been at the general expense of the railways.
(i) Railways
The length of the railway network - 23,670 km - has
only increased by about 400 kms over the past 10 years
(Table 1). While some kilometers of new main line have
been opened they have been counter-balanced by the
closing of some uneconomic branch lines. Over this
period, the total freight traffic on the railway has
increased at an average rate of 5.2% p.a. In 1966 the
railways moved about 41 million tons of revenue-earning
traffic for about 19 billion ton-km, Passenger traffic
has remained steady for most of the past 10 years at
around 30 million passengers, with very little change
in the average length of passenger journey.



-3-
(ii)  Road System
In contrast with the railways, the total length of
the road system increased from 27,380 km to 63,700 kms
between 1955-66 (Table 2). In addition there has been
a significant improvement in the quality of the network,
over half of which is now paved. While figures of road
usage, on a basis comparable to that of the railways,
are not available, it has been estimated that in terms
of ton-km trucking is now more important than the railway.
The number of trucks has been increasing at 5.8% p.a.
(Table 3) and their average size is increasing. As a
result freight carried by the trucking industry has
probably increased at a rate substantially more than
on the railways. The number of automobiles registered
in the same period increased by about 9.6% p.a., and while
the rate of increase in buses has been 3.3% p.a. their
average size has been increasing and, with the improvement
of roads, their degree of utilization has improved.
(iii)  Civil Aviation
Movement by air is also steadily increasing. There are
about 30 main airfields and some 500 landing strips.
About 80% of the passenger flights using the country's
airports were on domestic services by Mexican companies.
A continued expansion of international and domestic air
traffic seems assured. The rapid growth of tourism,
the steady rise in personal incomes, low competitive
fares, and the growth of widely-separated, important
business centers are all generating increasing demands.
A start has been made on a well conceived program of
investment in civil aviation.
(iv)  Shipping
While there are about 20 ports spread along the 6,300 km
of coastline, 1Mexico is not a traditional maritime nation.
Most of these ports are engaged in coastal shipping which
is relatively unimportant in the total transport picture
and is unlikely to be influenced by the propcsed road project.
C. Transport Coordination
2.5       Where there is competition between road and rail, the division of
traffic between the two modes broadly follows a pattern that reflects their
relative technical and service advantages. Road transport predominates in the
field of short and medium distance traffic, while the railways have largely
concentrated on the longer distance movement of bulk commodities; the average
length of rail haul for freight is more than 400 km. . The railways have in-
curred serious financial deficits for many years, but this is essentially due



- 4-
to factors other than the loss of traffic to road competitors; for example,
to tariffs which are Government-controlled at artificially low levels,
retention of many unprofitable branch lines, conveyance of mail at low
rates, unduly high levels of wages, etc. The situation has been discussed
in detail in previous Bank reports, the latest of which is "Current Economic
Position and Prospects of Mexico; Volume III - Annex VI (Transport)",
October 26, 1966. The Government has indicated its awareness of the prob-
lems to the Bank, and is considering measures that mould provide a solution.
2.6       Federal control of rates and fares for truck and bus operators,
as well as for railways, ports and civil aviation, is vested in the
Secretaria de Communicaciones y Transportes, which also issues licenses
to operators, specifying the routes to which they are limited. Similar
powers are exercised within the states by individual state authorities.
In principle the machinery exists for comprehensive control over all
modes of inland transport, though in practice the effects appear to be
quite limited. For example, a truck operator who is denied a license
can still operate for up to two years while his appeal goes through the
legal processes; and it is estimated that some 40% of the public service
trucks at present operating are doing so under this dispensation. There is
also apparently no stringent observation of the legal tariffs laid down
for road freight traffic. Although the present regulatory system has not
interfered with the development of a modern and efficient transport indus-
try, the Government is well aware of loopholes in the system and of the
need to review the justification of the existing regulations.
2.7       Road users in Mexico are contributing considerable revenues for
the use of the roads; however, the situation is not precise because, as
in many other countries, there is no earmarking of road user receipts for
appropriation to road expenditures by the Federal and State Governments.
The position is easier to assess for toll traffic since toll facilities
are financed and operated by a governmental agency, which is expected to
be self-supporting; its financial structure has been considered in
detail in the Bank appraisal reports for Loans 317-ME and 401-ME.  How-
ever, considerable investment has been financed by the Toll Authority
for the construction of access roads which are largely used by toll-free
traffic. This results in toll road users paying for road expenditures
which should be financed by the Federal Government. The Bank is currently
discussing corrective measures with the Government.
2.8       The Ministry of Finance estimates that specific road user charges
match highway expenditures quite closely year by year. For example, in
1965, total revenues from this source were calculated to be Ps 1.43 bil-
lion while total Federal and State expenditures on road construction and
maintenance (excluding toll roads) amounted to Ps 1.38 billion. However,
this is not the result of deliberate policy, and, in any case, there are
difficulties in defining which tax revenues can properly be included for
this purpose. All that can be concluded, on the basis of present evidence,
is that vehicle operators appear to be paying substantial amounts overall
for their use of the roads, and there is no evidence to suggest they are
receiving undue favorable treatment in this respect. The Government
recognizes the need for a study on highway user charges and is collecting
data as a basis for such a study.



- 5 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Highway Administration
3.1       The federal structure of Mexico involves a division of responsi-
bility for the highway system among various authorities as follows:
(i) Federal Highways - The planning, construction
and maintenance of Federal highways is under
the responsibility of the Secretariat of Public
Works (SOP). Federal highways are financed 100%
from Federal funds.
(ii) State Highways - The State Highway Boards prepare
their own programs of road construction and im-
provements. These, however, are presented annually
to SOP for technical scrutiny and administrative
action, because 50% of the costs is borne by the
Federal Government. Construction and maintenance
of these roads are carried out by the Boards, each
of which has a SOP representative.
(iii)  Local Roads - SOP is responsible for the planning
and construction of local roads which are financed
equally from Federal, State and local (private)
funds. On completion of a road it is transferred
to the State Government and becomes a State road
for all purposes (maintenance, administration, etc.)
(iv)  Toll Facilities - While the SOP plans and supervises
the construction of toll roads and bridges, the
operation and maintenance of these facilities is
carried out by a semi-autonomous public agency,
"Caminos y Puentes Federales de Ingresos y Servicios
Conexos", which is also responsible for a number of
the more important toll ferries. Funds for financing
the toll facilities are provided partly from tolls
levied on the users and partly from foreign and
domestic borrowing.
3.2       In spite of the widespread division of responsibility, the system
works smoothly with no major frictions. This is largely because of the
over-riding authority of SOP for design standards and specifications and
the financial participation of the Federal Government at all levels. The
organization of SOP is satisfactory and it has clearly-established lines of
authority (see Chart). It is staffed with experienced engineers and well
qualified directorate heads.



- 6 -
3.3       The Secretaria de Coimmunicaciones y Transportes (SCT) is the
responsible authority for control of traffic and road transport using
the Federal network. There are established regulations on axle loadings
and vehicle sizes which are properly enforced through SCT's Department
of Traffic Engineering and Vehicle Control. For this purpose the country
has been divided into 13 zones. Permanent weighing stations have been
established so far in 4 zones; stations for the remaining 9 zones are
expected to be in operation by 1970, and, in the meantime, portable
scales are being used. The existing legislation for the traffic control
is enforced by the SCT's Highway Police Department.
B. Highway Planning
3.4       The Directorate of Planning and Programming, a branch of SOP,
has a satisfactory system for collecting and processing traffic data and
is responsible for planning highway investments. On the basis of targets
determined by economic, social and political criteria, the SOP prepared
an ambitious Highway Investment Plan for the period 1965-70. This
envisaged expenditures totalling Ps 16 billion (US$ 1.28 billion equiva-
lent) on federal, state, local and toll roads. Priorities for the various
projects were screened on the basis of road user benefits, agricultural
potentials in the areas concerned, and the general effects on local
communities.
3.5       The Plan was intended, and has been used, only as a general
guideline for the SOP's annual expenditure program and as a basis for
seeking foreign financing. As a result of increasing costs for construc-
tion and right-of-way, and delays in executing projects and securing
foreign financing, the Plan has now become obsolete. The Directorate of
Planning and Programming is preparing a new investment plan for 1968-73.
The proposed Bank project comprises high priority roads which will be
included in this Plan.
3.6       Although progress has been slower than expected, annual highway
expenditures have been increasing appreciably and in 1965 and 1966 were
nearly three times as high as in 1955 (see Table 4). As a result of the
Ps 13.5 billion (US$ 1.08 billion) of highway expenditures between 1955
and 1966 the quality of the road system has improved considerably and its
total length increased by about 36,000 km. Programmed expenditures for
1967 exceed those of any previous year, and although the plan for 1968 to
1970 is under review it is unlikely that the present trend will be reversed.
C. Highway Engineering
3.7       Road and bridge works are designed by SOP's Directorate of
Engineering using up-to-date techniques. SOP has its own specialized
equipment for carrying out all stages of road design, from reconnaissance
of possible routes to completing the detailed engineering. Geological
surveys are made on the basis of aerial photographs; earthwork quantities
are estimated with the aid of computers. SOP has prepared a set of design
standards that take into account the type of terrain, design, speed,
minimum radius of curvature, width of roadway and pavement, grades and
sight distances. These standards, introduced in 1958, are revised from
time to time and have proved to be satisfactory.



3.8       There are a few local consulting firms engaged in highway and
bridge design work in Mexico, but SOP only employs them when its own staff
is fully occupied, and then only for bridge design. There are no restric-
tions on the use of foreign consultants, although for normal highway and bridge
designs SOP has enough qualified technical personnel. SOP engineering is
of high quality but the past practice of starting projects on the basis of
only preliminary engineering has been a major cause of construction delays
and cost increases (paras 3.15-17 below).
D. Highway Construction
3.9       Federal highway construction is supervised satisfactorily by SOP
staff. Works are carried out under unit price contracts awarded, except
for externally financed projects, through domestic competitive bidding.
3.10      The National Chamber of the Construction Industry has a membership
of about 3,000 contracting firms, some 500 of which are specialized in
highway works. In general these enterprises are well organized and equipped.
Some of the established procedures for bidding and contract execution have
discouraged foreign highway contractors from submitting bids in Mexico. In
connection with the proposed loan, the Government has agreed to take steps
to improve this situation (see parsa 4.21).
E. Highway Maintenance
3.11      Routine maintenance of the Federal highway system is carried out
by force account through SOP's General Directorate for Maintenance of Federal
Highways. Only major pavement reconstruction, widening of bridges, supply
of crushed stone and provision of traffic signs are carried out by contract.
For maintenance purposes the country is divided into 15 divisions, each
headed by a chief engineer. The divisions have the necessary repair shops,
stocks of spare parts, radio and telephone communications, housing and other
facilities, as well as the appropriate maintenance equipment. The Directorate
is properly organized and staffed and, in general, the Federal highway
network is well maintained.
3.12      The maintenance and operation of SOP equipment is in the charge
of the General Directorate for Equipment. The Directorate is well organized
and operates in close cooperation with the General Directorate for Mainte-
nance. Each Maintenance Division has equipment worth about US$ 1 million
and the mechanical facilities for its maintenance, although major repairs
are usually carried out by the equipment dealers' shops. The establishment
of equipment pools is under study, with a view to providing more flexibility
in the use of equipment by the divisions.
3.13      The replacement of over-age equipment is made through budgetary
appropriations or external financing. In 1959 SOP used a loan from the
Export-Import Bank to purchase maintenance equipment worth US$ 6 million;
and in 1963 the Bank, under Loan 35h-ME, financed additional equipment worth
about US$ 8 million. The General Directorate for Equipment is now studying
a rental system that would allow for continuous replacement of worn-out units.



- 8 -
3.14      The Bank has already participated in financing the reconstruc-
tion, completion or construction of about 9,200 km of Federal highways
and of about US$ 8 million worth of maintenance equipment. The Govern-
ment gave assurances during loan negotiations that it will continue to
provide adequate funds for maintenance of the Federal highway network.
F. Previous Bank Highway Projects
3.15      The four previous Bank projects for the expansion and improvement
of the Mexican highway network are as follows:
(i) Loan No. 268-ME (October 1960). This provided
US$ 25 million for construction or reconstruction
of about 3,150 km of the Federal Highway System;
some 10% of the work has still to be finished,
with completion expected by late 1968, about three
and a half years behind schedule; loan funds have
been fully disbursed;
(ii)  Loan No. 317-ME (June 1962). This provided US$ 30.5
million for construction or completion of three
toll roads (384-km), four access roads, five toll
bridges and for purchase of a ferry boat. This
project was completed about two and a half years
behind schedule; loan funds have been fully
disbursed;
(iii)  Loan No. 354-ME (September 1963). This provided
US$ 40 million for construction, reconstruction
or completion of about 6,000 km of Federal high-
ways, and for provision of maintenance and other
equipment. About 60% of the work has been finished,
and the project is now expected to be completed by
late 1968, two years behind schedule; and
(iv) Loan No. 401-ME (February 1965). This provided
US$ 32 million for improving about 320 km of toll
roads, and for construction of about 140 km of
new toll roads and three toll bridges. Some 60%
of the work is now finished and completion is
expected on schedule by late 1968.
3.16      The quality of all the above work is satisfactory, but cost
increases and construction delays have been encountered, due principally
to the increases in quantities of earthworks, revisions of design, the
inclusion of works not originally contemplated, problems of right-of-way
acquisition and unexpected heavy rains and cyclones that destroyed sections
of roads or bridges after construction. In addition, in 1965 and 1966 the
funds allotted for the financing of items under Loans 268-ME and 354-ME
proved insufficient, since transfers within the SOP's budget were not made
in time. Corrective measures to cope with future technical and financial



- 9 -
problems have been agreed upon and are summarized in para 4.15. Increased
costs and delays in project 317-ME also resulted in a deterioration of
the financial position of the Mexican Toll Authority (Caminos y Puentes
Federales de Ingresos y Servicios Conexos), which is responsible for the
financing of projects 317-ME (now completed) and 4O1-NE (para 3.1(iv)).
Satisfactory arrangements have recently been made by the Government to
provide Caminos y Puentes with funds needed to complete project 401-ME.
In addition the Bank is currently discussing with the Government further
measures which would provide a sound financial framework for Caminos y
Puentes'future development.
3.17      Spot checks made on some of the highways improved or constructed
with the Bank's assistance have indicated that these are still justified
in spite of the cost increases. This is due partly to the fact that high-
way traffic has been increasing rapidly and expected benefits to road
users have increased commensurately.



- 10 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.1       The project (see Map) provides for:
(i)  the reconstruction and resurfacing of primary
roads between Culiacan-Empalme.-Nogales, Tulancingo-Tuxpan
and Puebla-Izucar de Matamoros, totalling
1,231 km (Nos. 1, 2 and 3);
(ii) the improvement and bituminous surface treatment
of tertiary roads between Cuatro Caminos-Playa Azul,
Ciudad Aleman-Oaxaca, Iguala-Ciudad Altamirano and
Escarcega-Chetumal totalling 885 km (Nos. 4, 5, 6
and 7); and
(iii)  the construction, including asphaltic concrete
surfacing, of the San Martin Piramides-Tulancingo
primary road 66 km in length (No. 8), and the
provision of the necessary right-of-way.
4.2       The project roads, which are located in several parts of the
country, have been selected by the Government as having high priority. Some
of the roads in the project are closely related to works financed under
previous Bank loans.
4.3       Improvement of two of the highways (Iguala-Ciudad Altamirano and
Escarcega-Chetumal) up to a sub-base wearing course was partially financed
under Loan 354-ME. The present project provides for additional drainage
works, a gravel base and a light bituminous surfacing that were not included
in the previous project.
4.4       SOP has carried out the engineering for the proposed highways and
wtill supervise the works.  Acquisition of right-of-way will be needed for
the highway to be constructed (No. 8); 20% of the land is already available
and no difficulties are foreseen in acquiring the remainder since SOP has
already reached preliminary agreements with land owners. None of the
proposed works is yet underway, and no retroactive financing is required.
Highways to be Reconstructed
Culiacsn-LEpalme-ilogales (No. 1)
4.5       The reconstruction of this highway, 956 km  long, is the most
important item in the project. It accounts for about half the total cost of
the project. The project highway is part of the 2,300 km trunk route along
the western seaboard from Nogales, on the Mexican/United States border, to
Mexico City, passing through Guadalajara, the country's second largest city
and many other important towns. The Bank is financing improvement of sub-
stantial sections of the highway between Guadalajara and Mexico City under
previous projects.



- 11 -
4.6       The highway runs parallel to the Pacifico Railway, passing through flat
or rolling country and crossing numerous rivers. It is a two-lane highway ori-
ginally constructed between 1950 and 1955 when the area was still undeveloped,
and the structure and design standards of the road were suited for the traffic
conditions prevailing at that time. As a result of increasing traffic volumes
and vehicle weights, the highway has deteriorated and now needs to be reconstructed
and improved. The works to be carried out provide for the reconstruction of the
base over part of the road, and the provision of an asphaltic concrete surfacing
over the whole length (956 km) of the road. For about 120 km, where the present
traffic volume ranges from 1200-2400 vpd, the earthworks and drainage structures
would be widened from 9.0 to 13.0 m. For a length of about 80 km, where the
traffic volume is particularly high (3100-4000 vpd) it is proposed to widen the
road from two to four lanes. The works would also include the construction of
four overpasses and a bypass around the city of Guamuchil.
Tulancingo-Tuxpan (No.2)
4.7       From Tulancingo, the first section of this 206 km two-lane highway
crosses the eastern mountain range and reaches altitudes of 2,700 m before descend-
ing towards Tuxpan on the Gulf of Mexico. The last 60 km are located on flat
terrain.  The highway was built between 1940 and 1945 and present traffic require-
ments now make its improvement necessary.  It is proposed to widen the earthworks,
culverts and bridges, to reconstruct the base, to provide a 7.20 m wide asphaltic
concrete surfacing, to bypass three cities and to realign certain sections.
Puebla-Izucar de Matamoros (No.3)
4.8       This is a two-lane highway, 69 km long.  It was built between 1940 and
1942 and is now deteriorating rapidly owing to the heavy traffic demands.  The
highway crosses flat and rolling terrain, serving important industrial and agr--
cultural areas, and the cities of Puebla, Atlixco and Izucar de Matamoros with
a total population of about 430,000. The proposed works include the realignment
of four sections totalling about 5 km to eliminate sharp curves, the widening of
the earthworks, culverts and bridges, the reconstruction of the base and the
provision of a 7.20 m wide asphaltic concrete surfacing. Three bridges, with a
total length of about 120 m, are also to be constructed.
Highways to be Improved and Surfaced
Cuatro Caminos-Playa Azul (No.4 - 202 km long) and Ciudad Aleman-Oaxaca
(No.5 - 239 km long)
4.9       These two highways have been under construction since about 1956 but
progress has been delayed by the failure to make available adequate funds and
resources for their completion. The earthworks and some drainage structures
have been completed, but the base and surfacing have not been constructed. It is
now proposed to widen the earthworks, culverts and bridges, to construct certain
minor bridges, and to provide the base and a single bituminous surface treatment
7.00 m wide.
Iguala-Ciudad Altamirano (No.6 - 189 km long) and Escarcega-Chetumal (No.7 -
255 km long)
4.10      These two roads were designed with a light gravel surface suitable
for low traffic volumes, but rapid development in the localities



- 12 -
has meant that traffic has grown faster than expected, and now justifies
provision of a light pavement. Earthworks, drainage and construction of
the sub-base were included in Loan 354-ME; this work, which is sche-
duled for completion by late 1968, will have advanced to a stage early
in 1968 where the proposed project works can commence. The proposed
project provides for additional drainage works, the construction of the
base and a single bituminous surface treatment 7.00 m wide.
Highway to be Constructed
San Martin Piramides-Tulancingo (No. 8)
4.11      This 66 km highway represents an extension of the Mexico.City-San
Martin Piramides (Teotihuacan) highway financed under Loan 317-ME. It is
also linked with the Tulancingo-Tuxpan highway (item No. 2 above), to
be reconstructed under the proposed project. It will provide a short cut
for through traffic moving to and from an area north-east of Mexico City,
and will reduce the journey distance by about 25 km. The proposed works
comprise construction of earthworks, 11 bridges with a total length of
about 220 m, drainage structures, 4 overpasses, and provision of the base
and asphaltic concrete surfacing 7.20 m wide.
B. Cost Estimates and Financing of the Project
4.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 76.2 million
equivalent, including contingency allowances. This estimate is based on
unit prices drawn from contracts recently awarded for similar works, and
is considered reasonable. Quantities have been estimated by SOP on the
basis of detailed engineering for all project works. A summary of the
project cost and its foreign exchange component follows:
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Total                Component
7Us$ million equiv.)
Highways:
a)   To be Reconstructed (3)     41.5
b)   To be Improved (4)          18.2
c)   To be Constructed (1)        3.8      63.5           22.9
Contingencies: 20%
(Physical 10%
Escalation 10%)                           12.7            4.6
76.2           27.5



- 13 -
4.13      As in the four previous Bank loans to Mexico, 10% has been
included in the cost of highway works to cover SOP's expenditures for
engineering and supervision of the project works. An allowance of 10%
for physical contingencies and 10% for price increases during the period
of execution has been included. Table No. 5 shows the total cost esti-
mates for each highway in the project and Table No. 6 the breakdown of
the construction cost by items (earthworks, drainage, etc.); right-of-
way costs are excluded from Bank financing but are included in project
costs for purposes of economic evaluation.
4.14      The tentative annual breakdown between the estimated local
currency requirements, and foreign currency expenditures to be covered
by the Bank loan, is as follows:
Foreign
Local                   Exchange
Total              Currency                Expenditures
Expenditures        Expenditures          (Bank Participation)
Ps    US$ Equiv.    Ps     US$ Equiv.        Ps     US$ Equiv.
---------  ____ _ _____COOO~(00 ,000) --  - _ _ _ _ _ _ -- - -_ --  - - - - -
1968         63      5.0          40     3.2              23       1.8
1969        300      24.0        192    15.4             108       8.6
1970        325      26.0        208    16.6             117       9.4
1971        265     21.2         170    13.5              95       7.7
953     76.2        610    48.7              343      27.5
4.15      The  local currency costs of the project will be financed by
the Federal budget.  Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations
that adequate funds will be made available for executing the project.
In view of the cost increases and delays encountered in the previous Bank
loans, the Government has recently established a special office within
the Under Secretariat of Public Works. The function of this office is to
check that the current Bank projects are carried out according to the
detailed engineering as approved by SOP. In order to exercise a tighter
control on the works under the new project, the Government has agreed that
no changes in any contract which, individually or in aggregate, will
increase the amount of such contract by 10% or more will be made unless
the changes are satisfactory to SOP and the Bank. In addition, the Bank
will be informed in the SOP quarterly report of any proposed changes of
smaller magnitudelikely to affect the amount of any contract.
4.16      The foreign exchange component has been estimated on the basis
of the weighted average of likely foreign and domestic contractor partic-
ipation in the proposed project. Experience with the current bidding and
contract award procedures on Bank-financed highway projects in Mexico has
evidenced little interest by foreign contractors. Whereas 15-20 foreign



firms have been pre-qualified to bid, only two foreign firms actually
presented bids when invited. Only one foreign firm (French) has been
awarded a contract. The value of that contract amounted to about 5%
of the estimated cost of the individual project construction. With greater
encouragement to foreign firms from the incentives proposed in para 4.21
below, it is probable that more such firms will submit bids and be succes-
ful in obtaining contracts.
4.17      SOP has prepared a satisfactory detailed analysis breaking down
the cost of the various elements of construction (earthworks, drainage,
base, surfacing, etc.) into local and foreign components. On the basis
of this analysis and the assumption that foreign firms would be awarded
about 25% of the value of contracts, the foreign exchange cost is
estimated at 36% of the total cost of civil works and this percentage has
been used as the basis for the proposed loan. This percentage is about
the same as for works under the previous highway projects. Following the
procedure established for previous loans the Bank would disburse 36% of
civil works expenditures directly to the Government. Any savirgs in the
funds provided in the loan would normally be cancelled.
C. Design Standards and Execution of the Project
4.18      Design standards for works included in the project are shown in
Table 7. They are similar to those used for the projects under Loans
268-ME and 354-ME and are considered satisfactory.  Table 8 shows the
length, types and surfacing of each of the project highways.
4.19      Contracts for the project works  rillbe let on the basis of
international competitive bidding after pre-qualification of contractors,
and in accordance with the Bank's established bidding procedures, apart
from bridges over 15 m span, traffic signs, lane markings, fencing, and
minor or specialized works, which account for about 7% of the total
construction cost (approximately Ps 48 million or US$ 3.8 million equiv-
alent) and which may be awarded to local contractors after competitive
bidding.
4.20      Pre-qualification of contractors is made on the basis of their
past experience and performance, the technical capability of their staff,
the availability of equipment and their financial capacity. Because of
the great number of pre-qualified contractors in Mexico (about 150 at
present), invitations to bid are issued to a limited number of selected
pre-qualified firms. Selection of firms is presently based on their
specialty (earthworks, or sub-base and base, surfacing, bridges, etc.),
their financial capacity in relation to the amount of the works, and the
amount of work they have in hand at the time of the bidding. Domestic
firms are also selected on a geographical basis with regard to the
proximity of the works to their headquarters. Foreign firms pre-qualified
to bid on Bank-financed projects are invited on a rotational basis in
order that each of them is given an equal opportunity to participate.



- 15 -
4.21      The local construction industry is well organized and competent
(para 3.10). Although censtruction costs appear reasonable it is possible
that improvements in both cost and efficiency of civil works execution
could be obtained through broader international competition. There are
certain established bidding procedures that experience has indicated
may discourage the submission of international competitive bids; during
loan negotiations, agreement wee reached with the Government on the
following points, which should substantially increase the attractiveness
of the project to foreign contractors:
(i) Pre-qualification of Contractors - Under the present system,
invitations to contractors for pre-qualification are issued
only once, at the beginning of any Bank project, but any
interested firm may ask to be pre-qualified at any time.
The Government has agreed to invite pre-qualification
annually until such time as all contracts have been awarded.
(ii) Invitations to Bid - Invitations to bid are now issued to
a limited number (about 12) of pre-qualified firms in the
proportion of 1/3 foreign to 2/3 local under a previous
agreement between the Government and the Bank. The Govern-
ment has agreed to change this procedure so that the
number of firms to be invited would be increased to a
minimum of 16 and the proportions changed to 1/2 foreign
and 1/2 local. Since the project works would include
about 22 contracts to be awarded through international
bidding, foreign firms,invited on a rotational basis,
would thus have ample opportunity to participate in the
bidding.
(iii) Award of Contract by Type of Work - The current general
practice is to award separate contracts on a "horizontal"
basis for each type of work (e.g., earthworks, sub-base
and base, surface, bridges, etc.) instead of for complete
road sections on a "vertical" basis in which all the above
works are included. The Mexican procedure splits the work
into small specialized contracts; this is less efficient
from an operational standpoint. It originated in the
desire of the Government to avoid the risk of price fixing
by the development of a few very large firms in the contract-
ing industry. This risk has now largely been removed by
the present structure of the industry. For the proposed
project the Government has agreed to award contracts on a
"vertical" basis for complete road sections in the interest
of greater efficiency and lower costs; this would also
be more likely to attract bids from foreign contractors.
(iv)  Minimum Size of Contracts - For previous projects, the Bank
and the Government agreed on a minimum size of contracts for
international bidding of US$ 2 million equivalent. This
has not proved sufficiently attractive to foreign bidders,



- 16 -
and during negotiations the Government has agreed to
increase the minimum size of contracts. About 35% of the
total value of contracts will be for amounts greater than
US$ 3 million equivalent, about 20% will be for amounts
varying between US$ 2.5 and US$ 2.9 million equivalent.
Contracts for the remainder of the project works (except
those referred to in para 4.19) will range from US$ 2 to
US$ 2.4 million equivalent.
(v) Contracts Signed in Annual Tranches - Under the present
system contracts are not signed for the full amount of the
bid, but only for the current annual budgetary appropriation
earmarked for the work. The Government has agreed to have
contracts signed for the full amount and duration of the
contract works.
4.22      The SOP's Directorates which will supervise execution of the
proposed project are adequately staffed with competent personnel. They
operate efficiently and outside consultants will not be required. The
project is expected to be completed by October 1971.



- 17 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Summary
5.1       The economic benefits of the project accrue mainly in the form of
reduced transport costs for traffic that would use the existing highways
even if they were not improved, although for some of the roads other
important benefits are expected from the generation of new traffic as a
result of the improvements. The particular roads have estimated economic
rates of return varying between 12% and 23%, with a weighted average of
19% for the project as a whole. It is concluded that the project, and
each of its constituent parts, is amply justified.
B. Traffic Forecasts
5.2       As prepared by SOP, traffic forecasts for the project roads i.e.,
8% rate of increase in 1967 decreasing to 6% p.a. in 1971 and thereafter,
were based primarily on expectations of average traffic growth for the
country as a whole. These in turn were based on the increase in vehicle
registrations over the last ten years, in the absence of reliable road
user statistics over the period; SOP has recently set up a good system for
traffic counting throughout the country, but historical data on traffic
volumes are not sufficient, at present, to draw reliable trends. For
purposes of appraising the Project the Bank has taken a rather more
conservative view, bearing in mind the increasing uncertainty attaching
to later years; overall traffic has been assumed to increase by 7% p.a.
up to 1970, by 6% p.a. between 1971 and 1980 and by 3% p.a. thereafter.
5.3       These forecasts of average growth have been adopted for four
roads in the project (Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 8) where the improvements will not
materially affect the future level of traffic. For the four roads to be
upgraded (Nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7) however, the forecasts reflect the additional
traffic expected to be generated by the road improvements or by other
specific developments in the area.
C. Calculation of Economic Benefits
5.4       Culiacan-Empalme-Nogales (No. 1 - 956 km): Much of the road
between Culiacan and Nogales passes through rich and rapidly developing
agricultural country. Large-scale irrigation schemes, in which the Bank
has participated, and the introduction of numerous plants for crop proces-
sing, have already generated substantial increases in traffic on the road;
the execution of plans for further large-scale extensions of the irrigated
areas will continue to do so in the future. Over the whole distance of 956
km there was a daily average of 1,750 vehicles in 1966, but owing to the
local nature of much of the traffic the density varied between 910 and 4,000
vpd on different sections.
5.5       Although the primary purpose of the road is to serve local traffic
needs, it is also important as a through route for freight and tourist traffic
between Mexico and the United States. For the longer distance freight traffic



- 18 -
there is some competition for higher value products such as fruit and
tomatoes, with the Pacifico Railway, that runs parallel to the road through-
out its length. This railway has been completely rehabilitated in recent
years, largely with the aid of a Bank loan in 1954 (103-ME). In spite of
-the rapid growth of freight traffic on the parallel highway, the Pacifico's
freight tonnage doubled in the ten years up to 1965. Development in the
area generally has been such as to support a vigorous growth of both road
and rail traffic, and the programs for future economic expansion make it
likely that this situation will continue. The improvements proposed for the
project road are needed primarily to ensure that road transport can play
its proper role in this expansion, particularly in the field of short and
medium distance movements. There will also be benefits to road operators
in the field of long-distance freight transport, where canpetition with t,he
railway is strongest. However, there is no economic case for attempting
to protect the railway by neglecting improvements to the highway. At the
same time, justification for the high-way's reconstruction does not depend
on the benefits to its users in the long-distance haulage field. To es-
tablish this point, suchl benefits have been calculated separately in es-
timating the economic rate of return for the project.
5.6        Benefits to road users will arise in three ways.   First, repairs
and improvements to the base and pavemen-t will reduce vehicle time and
operating costs generally. Secondly, the improvements, together with the
proposed widening, will increase the capacity of the road, and thus reduce
the costs of congestion as traffic continues to increase. Thirdly, the
wider pavement and improvement of shoulders should reduce the accident rate
which is already very high.   The benefits from accident reduction have not
been included in the rate of return calculation, though they are likely to
be substantial.
5.7        In view of the variations in traffic density, expected benefits
and costs have been compared separately for different sections of
the road.     Each section shows a rate of return of 12% or more, with an
average rate of 20% for the road as a whole, assuming an economic life of
20 years. Excluding the benefits to long-distance commercial traffic
(see para. 5.5) the return ie estimated at 15%.
5.8        Tulancingo-Tuxpan (No. 2 - 206 km):   This is part of the trunk
route between Tuxpan, close to the Gulf of Mexico, and M4exico Ci-ty. It
serves an important oil-producing and industrial area around the town of
Poza Rica (population 87,000), and another industrial center at Tulancingo
(population 33,000). 'The road crosses the mountain range of the W.zTestern
Sierra. The numerous curves and narrow 6.2 meter wide pavement limit the
speed of traffic even at the present density of between 1,100 and 1,800
vehicles per day on the different sections. The proposed reconstruction
includes widening the pavement to 7.2 meters and improving the base. The
benefits in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs are expected to yield
a 21% rate of return over a 20-year life.
5.9        San Martin Piramides-Tulancingo (No.8 - 66 km): This new road
will provide another section of the Tuxpan-Mlexico City route and is an
extension to the Tuxpan-Tulancingo road described in the previous paragraph.



At the present time traffic between Tulancingo and the capital passes on the
old road via Pachuca. The new road will follow a much more direct alignment
to San Martin Piramides where it will provide access to a high standard toll
road to Mexico City, financed by the Bank.  An estimated 1,000 vehicles
per day will be attracted to this route when it opens in 1970. The principal
advantages will be, first, a saving of 25 kIm  in the distance for through
traffic, and second, reduced vehicle operating costs resulting from the im-
proved alignment and road surface. These benefits are estimated to yield
a 23% rate of return over a 20-year life, after taking account of the road's
future   maintenance costs.  There are also likely to be other benefits; for
example, from the relief of potential congestion on the old road via Pachuca,
and from economic developments induced in the area the new road will pass
through. The amount of these benefits is difficult to estimate and they are
not included in the above return. They are not the main purpose of the new
route nor essential to its justification.
5.10      Puebla-Izucar de Yatamoros (No. 3 - 69 km ):   This road connects
Puebla, the country's fourth largest city, with the Pan American Highway,
which serves as the main trunk route to the south-east. It also carries
substantial local traffic through the outlying areas of Puebla, as well as
agricultural produce from the surrounding irrigated farming country, and
from the market town of Atlixco (population 70,000), midway along the road.
At present there are some 2,300 vehicles passing daily between Puebla and
Atlixco, and 1,h00 between Atlixco and Izucar de Matamoros.   The present
width of the pavement is 6.5 meters on the first of these sections, and only
6.0 meters on the second. The proposed improvements include widening the
pavement to 7.2 meters, which is amply justified by the traffic level ex-
pected on the road. The overall savings in vehicle operating costs are
estimated to yield a 214 return over a 20-year life.
5.11      Cuatro Caminos-Playa Azul (No. 4 - 202 km. ):  Construction of this
road was originally started ten years ago as part of an overall plan for the
development of this sparsely populated area. In spite of the lack of funds
to complete its construction, the stimulus provided by extensive irrigation
works in the area has induced a flow of about 220 vehicles a day on the road.
The improvements now proposed include provision of light paving with a single
surface treatment. This will substantially reduce journey times and vehicle
operating costs and, by offering better protection from the tropical storms
experienced along the Pacific Coast, will appreciably reduce the road's
maintenance costs. In addition the improvements are expected to encourage
a faster rate of traffic growth. On the assumption that traffic will be
generated in direct proportion to the reduction in vehicle operating costs,
the benefits to such traffic can be taken as equal to one-half of the savings
in costs. These benefits, together with the savings in (i) operating costs
of those vehicles which would, in any case, use the road, and (ii) in the
savings in maintenance costs on the road itself, produce a 13% rate of return
over an assumed 15-year life.
5.12      Ciudad Aleman-Oaxaca (No. 5 - 239 km ):   Completion of this road
has also been delayed by a shortage of funds, but here again traffic has
already grown to about 200 vehicles a day. Its primary purpose is to promote
development in the area, but it also links the coastal road along the Gulf



- 20 -
of Mexico with the Pan American Highway, and provides a route between the
port of Veracruz and the area around Oaxaca City (population 87,000). The
proposed improvements to the road are similar to those described for the
Cuatro Caminos-Playa Azul road. The nature of the benefits expected are
also similar, and in this case are estimated to offer a 12% return over a
15-year life.
5.13    Iguala-Ciudad Altamirano (No. 6- 189 km ) and Escarcega-Chetumal
(No. 7 - 255 km ): These two roads were included in the previous
Bank Loan 354-ME (see paragraph 4.10).  Their completion to the design
standards accepted in the previous project, including a gravel sub-base, was
originally scheduled by 1965/66, but is now expected to be delayed until
the end of 1968. Even so, traffic passing over the incomplete roads in
1966 already amounted to about 200 vehicles a day in each case, which suggests
that their selection as development roads, to open up areas previously
accessible only by primitive trails, has been amply justified.   The addi-
tional works now proposed in this project, and the nature of benefits to
be expected from these improvements are similar to those for the roads
described in the two previous paragraphs. Rates of return of 20% and 18%
over a 15-year life are estimated for the two roads respectively.



_ 21 -
6. CONCLUSIrONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       The project as a whole is technically sound and economically
justified and is important to the continuing process of improving and
upgrading the Mexican highway system. The cost estimates are acceptable.
6.2       The responsible executing agency will be the Secretariat of
Public Works. The various Directorates concerned with the project have
a sound organization and clear lines of authority; their staff is com-
petent and no outside consultants are required.
6.3       During loan negotiations the Government gave the following
principal assurances:
(i) the Under Secreteriat of Public Works through a specially
established office will check that project works are
carried out in accordance with the detailed eng.neering
and cost estimates approved by SOP (para 4.15);
(ii)  no change in any contract that, individually or in aggregate
will increase its amount by 10% or more will be made unless
such change is satisfactory to SOP and the Bank (para 4.15);
and
(iii)  the, international competitive bidding procedures will be
improved as follows (para 4.21):
(a) invitations to contractors for pre-qualification
will be made annually until such time as all
contracts have been awarded;
(b)  invitations to bid will be sent to at least 16
pre-qualified firms, of which one-half foreign
and the other local firms;
(c) contracts will be awarded for complete road
sections;
(d) the minimum size of contracts will be increased;
about 55% of the value of project works will be
undertaken through contracts greater than US$ 2.5
million equivalent; and
(e) contracts will be awarded for the full amount of the
bid proposal.
6.4       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$ 27.5 million equivalent.  An appropriate term would be 20 years
including a 4-year period of grace.
January 11, 1968



TABLE 1
MEXICO
THIRD ROAP PROJECT
Railway Statistics
Total Length of     Passenger Traffic          Freight Traffic-
Railway Routes   Millions of Millions of     Millions  Millions
(km)        Passengers   Passenger-km   of tons  of ton-km
1955           23,370           34.4        3,764         25.3     10,960
1956           23,424           34.7        3,861         26.9     12,014
1957           23,383           33.0        3,837         29.0     12,982
1958           23,456           29.3        3,491         28.2     12,809
1959           23,292           30.6        3,725         28.5     12,230
1960           23,368           32.6        4,127         32.2     14,004
1961           23,487           33.6        4,287         30.6     13,524
1962           23,501           34.5        3,769         30.6     13,521
1963           23,793           35.7        3,898         34.2     14,960
1964           23,618           37.5        4,097         37.4     16,330
1965           23,672           37.3        3,881         41.0     18,326
1966           23,672           37.0        4,900.        41.0     19,100(etf)
Average annual growth rate:                  0.6%                    5.2%
Average length of ,journey
in 1966:                                   108 km                  466 km
Source:  Estadistica de Ferrocarriles y Tranvias 1965 and SOP



TABLE 2
MEXICO
THIRD ROAD FROJECT
Length of Highways, 1955 to 1966
(Kilometers)
Year        Federal        State and Local         Toll        Total
1955        15,235             12,042             108          27,385
1956        15,408             13,208             108          28,724
1957        16,876             13,351             108          30,335
1958        16,997             14L,782            296         32,075
1959        21,001             16 214              296         37, 511
1960        21,495             23,163              296         44,954
1961        23,647             25,663              296         49,606
1962        22,685             30,403              452         53,540
1963        23,723             32,863             452          57,038
1964        24,663             35,279             498          60,W40
1965        25,195             35,502              555         61,252
1966        25,773             37,187              741         63,701
Average
annual
growth rate 4.9%                10.8%             19.1%          8.O%
Source: Secretaria de Obras Publicas



TABLE 3
MEXICO
THIRD ROAD PROJECT
Highway ExPenditures 1955-1967 1/
(Ps Million)
Year                               Highways
Federal        Toll        State and Local        Total
1955                522           -                .165              687
1956                472                            223               695
1957                610           -                270               880
1958                554           65               261               880
1959                688           67               280              1035
1960                625           59               257               941
1961                484          161               259               90h
1962                647          105               262              1014
1963                711          141               323              1175
1964                953          300               463              1716
1965                844          320               540              17O4
1966                910          436               481              1827
1967                800          478               714              1992 2/
1/ Construction, maintenance and administration
2/ Approved expenditures for 1967
Source: Secretaria de Obras Publicas



TABRIJ 4
MEXICO
THIRD ROAD. PROJECT
Number of Motor Vehicles Registered 1955 to 1965
(Thousands)
Year         Automobiles         Buses          Trucks         Total
1955            308.1             22.3          220.2          550.6
1956            320.4             21.0          240.1          581.5
1957            365.8             22.4          272.5          660.7
1958            378.9             22.7          273.8          675.4
1959            437.7             25.9          300.9          764.5
1960            483.1             26.1          293.4          802.6
1961            520.7             33.4         300.2           854.3
1962            548.2             26.1          327.9          902.2
1963            618.0             27.6          352.7          998.3
1964            687.8             29.5          364.1        1,081.4
1965            771.1             30.7          388.1        1,189.9
Average annual
growth rate       9.6%             3.3%          5.8%            8.0%
Source: Anuario Estadistico de Los Estados Unidos Mexicanos



KX,ICO
T,-.IRD ROAD PROJSCT
Cost Estimates of Project Highways
Enginreer ing
and                     Contingencies
Length)  Construction   Sui-ervision  Sub-   Physical   Escalation
Highways            _-_          Cost         10%        Total     I10L)      (10;)      Total
-Pesos 'willions - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
(a)  To be reconstructed
1.  CuliacanT-hnpalme-_}ogales    956        341!.7        34.5       379.2     37.9       37.9     IL55.r)
2. Tulancingo-Tuxpan              206         92.2          9.2       101.4     10.1       10.1      121.6
3. Puebla-I?zmcar de ^ ataraoros   69        34.7           3.5        38.2      3.8        3.3       45.8
51.8                           6282 .
(b)  To be irmpnroved
4. Cuatro Caiminos-Playa Azul     202        59.2           5.9        65.1      6.5        6.5       78.1
5.  Ciudad Aleman-Oaxaca          239        690.7          7.0        76.7      7.7        7.7       92.1
6. Iguala-Ciudad Altanirano       189         32.5          3.3        35.8      3.6        3.6       43.0
7. Escarcega-Chetuinal            255        45.8            I.6       50.1      5.1        5.1       60.6
228.0                          273.8
(c) To be constructed
8. San 'N,artin Piranides-
Tulancingo                  66        13.3           4.3        47.6      h.8        4.8       57.2
li7.7                          5-7.2
Totals               2,2          722.1          72.3       794.4     79.5       72.5     953.4
(US&76.2 millim)n  b
equivalent)



-|,TXICO
THIRD ROAD PROJECT
Analysis of Construction Cost Estimates by Ite'-'s
Length                                             Traffic          Total Const. Cost   l/
Highways          Km    Earthworks  Drainage  Paverient  Bridges   Signs   '.isc.  (without contingencies)
- - - - - - - - - - --esos IillIions -              - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
(a)  To be reconstructed
1. Culiacan-Empalme.8.
lFogales         956       61.4       15.4      222.8       214 h65         19.2             344.7
2. Tulancingo-Tuxpan   206       8.6       25.3        1!1.9     3.8      1.1     1165             92.2
3. Puebla-Izucar de
:.ata1ioros       69        4.3                  22.3       1.2     0O4      2.0              34.7
(b)  To be im+proved
4. Cuatro Ca.iinos-
Playa Azul        202      10.3       11.3        35.4      1.1      1.1       -              59.2
5. Ciudad Alenan-
Oaxaca            239      17.9       17.3        31.9      1.3      1.3       -              69.7
6. Iguala-Ciudad
Altamirano        18        -          1b.5       27J0       -       1.0       -              32.5
7. Escarcega-Chetumal 255                   2.2        42.2       -       1.4       -              45.8
(c)  To be constructed
8. San ?',artin Piramides-
Tulancingo         66      i5.0        b!.8       1965      3.4      0.6       -              143.3
Totals       2,182      11765       85.3      44h3.r    32.2      ll.4    32.7             722.1
1/   Right-of-way costs totalling about Ps 365 million (US"2800;00 equivalent) are not included.
Source: Secretaria de Obras Publicas



TABLE .7
MEXICO
THMRD ROAD PROJECT
Project Highways: Design Standards
Flat and
Rolling     Hilly       Medium        Heavy
Geometric Des'              Unit   Country    Country    Mountainous   Mountainous
Special Type (Primary)
Design speed               Km/h     90         80           70           60
Width of roadway
two lanes           Meter   9.0 to     9.0 to       9.0 to       9.0 to
13.0       13.0         13.0         13.0
four lanes           Meter    21.8       21.8         21.8         21.8
Width of surfacing
two lanes           Meter     7.2        7.2          7.2          7.2
four lanes           Meter   2 x 7.5    2 x 7.5      2 x 7.5      2x 7.5
Minimum radius of
curvature               Meter   390.0      291.0        218.0        158.0
Maximum grade               %       3.5        4.5          5.0          5.5
Type A (Primary)
Design speed               Km/h     70         60           50           40
Width of roadway          Meter     9.0        9.0          8.5          8.0
Width of surfacing        Meter     7.2        7.2          7.2          7.2
Minimum radius of
curvature               Meter   218.0      158.0        105.0         67.0
Maximum grade               %       4.0        5.0          5.5          6.o
Type B (Secondary)
Design speed               Km/h     60         50           40           35
Width of roadway          Meter     8          8            7.5          7.0
W4idth of surfacing       Meter     6.1        6.1          6.1          5.5
Minimum radius of
curvature               Meter   158.0      105.0         67.0         50.0
Maximum grade               %       4.5        5.5          6            6.5
Type C (Tertiary or Penetration)
Design speed               Km/h     50         40           30           25
Width of roadway          Meter     7.0        7.0          7.0          6.5
Width of surfacing I/     Meter     7.0        7.0          7.0          6.5
Minimum radius of
curvature               Meter   105.0       67.0         37.0         25.0
Maximum grade               %       5          6            6.5          7
Load design for bridges:  H-15 - S-12 (AASHO)
Axle load: 8,100 Kg
1/ Single surface treatment on the whole roadway width.



TABLE 8
I4EXICO
THIRD ROAD PROJECT
Project Highways: Length, Type and Surface
Type                I/
Length in Km   (See Table 7)  Surfacing-
A. Highways to be Reconstructed
1. Culican-Empalme-Nogales             956        Special and A       AC
2. Tulancingo-Tuxpan                   206               A            AC
3. Puebla-Izucar de Matamoros           69             Special        AC
B. Highways to be Improved.
4. Cuatro Caminos-Playa Azul           202                C           SST
5. Ciudad Aleman-Oaxaca                239                C           SST
6.  Iguala-Ciudad Altamirano           189                C           SST
7. Escarcega-Chetumal                  255                C           SST
C. Highway to be Constructed
8.  San Martin Piramides-Tulancingo     66                A           AC
2,182
1/   AC = Asphaltic Concrete
SST = Single Surface Treatment



TABLE 9
MEXICO
THIRD ROAD PROJECT
Project Highways: Traffic Forecasts
(vehicles per day)
Culiacan-       Tulancingo-      Puebla-Izucar        Cuatro Caminos-
Nogales 1/       Tuxpan 1/       de Matamoros 1/        Playa Azul
(No. 1)         (No. 2)           (No. 3)               (No. 4)
1966        1,750            1,430            1,680                   220
1970        2,300            1,870            2,200                   300
1975        3,070            2,510            2,950                   490
1980        4,100           3,350             3,940                   650
1985        4,760            3,890            4,570                   760
Ciudad-Aleman-         Iguala-         Escarcega-      San Martin Piramides-
Oaxaca           C. Altamirano      Chetumal           Tulancingo
(No. 5)             (No. 6)          (No. 7)            (No. 8)
1966           200                  200             240                 nil
1970           270                  270             320               1,100
1975           440                  440             520               1,500
1980           580                  580             700               1,980
1985           670                  670             810               2,300
1/ Weighted average of traffic on the individual sections.



MEXICO: THIRD FEDERAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE SECRETARIAT OF PUBLIC WORKS
X       ~SECRETARY OF PUBLIC WORKS 
t                       |    ~~~~~~~~~~~SEICRETA=A                                  | TECHNICAL ADVISORS |A|RECRAFTON
UNDER SECRETARY                         - - --
TECHNICAL ADVISORS         SECRETARIAT                       I                       SPECIFICATIONS          UNIT PRICES
|  ,   |            t    COMMITTEE              COMMITTEE
CONTROL OFFICE
BANK PROJECTS)
SENIOR OFFICER                         _-
___________________________________________________  _________________________________________________  I
ADMINISTRATIVE
RELATIONSHIP           SECRETARIAT                                              TECHNICAL ADVISORS       SOCIAL SECURITY
WITH THE STATES
GENERAL          DI R E C TORA TE S
z                                                 wn                  0
0                                         D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4r    0c                                                             in                   0: 
0i                  0 -                                                                                        F 
Z _                    <? (o 2:         k                                                                   _
Apr)l 1967                                                                                                                       18RD H  0380
Z     0        X    0.~~O  tf C) V) I-                  w Z  F        0:                         F       >     l
0:                  0~~~~~i  Z     0:-   Cd             z      in 
Z4         0~~~U        z I   41  cn)  z      0r     2             z     < 4                 4-      H            (i
z                                  -J     0.                  0      I:                          0:      :
40a                  0 :                                0     o      W             4~     CD     4 
Z  0                                                             cr     a:in Z  I  C  0.                          0
-j0     w      U              C w                                     0 4     .     >                           z             z
0.  ~~~~~~      z0 I   <0     )-                                               -             -                    Z      H-
U                4                                                0.                                 w 
FOR COORDINATION
April, 1967                                                                                                                              I8RD -3380



P'. N,,....                                                A.
PtOeelasi --11it       *..mu.  jcofo=   CdJa'r I)S 5A Ioj-M                                                  EX  IC
!.,,, a~  ~  a~oo.,O  Nt po,~,,MEXICO
4O,Mt  -qR  Q   Q      < a     & <u.O       t<;                              | [                 THIRD FEDERAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAIN HIGHWAY NETWORK
4                                                fighways constructed or under construction
.... ,financed by previous IBRD loans
76                                                  '                                                   t _1 81 > 6 '-; % >,  st ,y<< X Other naon highways
..\c--\-4s--K -IIII  Railways
L-tdo                      PROPOSES RANK FINANCED PROJECT
:                              .ighways        to  he r*constructed
Ilighways to ho improved
Row highway to be constracted
0    100  200  300  400  500 K-
GLUL F            OF         MEXICO
h pL ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ag -                                                                                   P"           .l
d.1                                   u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
'0 ~~~  ~ ~  8     o rco-ioo
d,~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~~~Coo C..
^7l  e.                                                  Cdl                                                            -VPA  C/Fl  C  OCEAN
JUNE 1967
IBRD-1103R3



