                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: ICR0000159




                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                            (IBRD 4516 -AR)

                                                 ON A

                                                 LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$52.5 MILLION DOLLARS

                                                  TO

                                      THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR A

                 PUBLIC HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
                                                (VIGI-A)



                                           November 29, 2006




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  (Exchange Rate Effective 11/14/2006)

                                     Currency Unit = Argentinean peso (ARS)
                                          AR$1.00 = US$0.32
                                          US$1.00 = AR 3.07


                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       [January 1 ­ December 31]




                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANLIS       National Administration of Health Laboratories and Institutes ­ Administracion Nacional de
            Laboratorios e Institutos de Salud
BSL1 BSL2   Biosecurity Levels 1 and 2
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDC         Centers for Disease Control
COFESA      Federal Council on Health ­ Consejo Federal de Salud
DOTS        Direct Observation Treatment Strategy
FETP        Field Epidemiology Training Program - Programa de Residencia en Epidemiologia de Campo
GOA         Government of Argentina
HIV/AIDS    Human Immune-Deficiency Virus / Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
LUSIDA      Argentina's AIDS and STD Control Project
MOH         Argentina's Federal Ministry of Health - Ministerio de Salud y Ambiente
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAHO        Pan American Health Organization
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
PDO         Project Development Objectives
PHSS        Public Health Surveillance System
PRESSAL     Argentina's Provincial Health Sector Reform Project
PROMIN      Argentina's Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project
PSR         Project Status Report
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
SARS        Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SINAVE      National Epidemiology Surveillance System - Sistema Nacional de Vigilancia Epidemiologica
STD         Sexually Transmitted Disease
TA          Technical Assistance
TB          Tuberculosis
The Project Argentina's Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project - VIGI-A
UATA        Argentine Anti-Tobacco Union -Union Anti tabaquica Argentina
UFI-S       Unit for International Financing in Health­Unidad de Financiamiento Internacional en Salud
VIGI-A      Argentina's Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project - The Project
VIGISUS     Brazil's Disease Surveillance and Control Project
WHO         World Health Organization

   Vice President:   Pamela Cox
 Country Director:   Axel van Trotsenburg
  Sector Manager:    Keith Hansen
Task Team Leader:    Isabella Anna Danel / Luis Perez

                                                            ARGENTINA

                            Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project
                                                                (VIGI-A)




                                                             CONTENTS
                                              (generated after CD's approval)


1. Basic Information................................................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates............................................................................................................................................ 1
3. Ratings Summary................................................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes .................................................................................................................... 2
5. Bank Staff ........................................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design:...................................................................... 3
 6.1 Context at Appraisal ....................................................................................................................... 3
 6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved) .................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................................... 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................................................. 12
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................................. 19
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................................... 20
11. Lessons Learned.............................................................................................................................. 23
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners................................. 24
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis................................................................................................. 25
Annex 2: Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................................ 33
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.................................................................................................. 34
Annex 4. Outputs by Component ......................................................................................................... 36
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).......................... 42
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.................................... 44
Annex 7. Detailed ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................... 47
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ...................................................................................... 48
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).............................................................. 49
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .......................................... 50
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................................. 60
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................................ 61
Annex 13. 1 List of people interviewed for the ICR: ........................................................................... 62
Annex 13.2. Summary of ICR for Emergency Component.................................................................. 63

1. Basic Information

                                                                           AR-Pub. Hlth. Surveillance
Country:                   Argentina               Project Name:           & Disease Control Project
                                                                           (VIGIA)
Project ID:                P055482                 L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-45160
ICR Date:                  11/14/2006              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:        SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                           ARGENTINA
Original Total
                           USD 52.5M               Disbursed Amount:       USD 52.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies


National Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners



2. Key Dates

       Process               Date              Process          Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:      07/08/1998         Effectiveness:       01/22/2001         01/22/2001
Appraisal:           02/08/1999         Restructuring(s):
Approval:            10/14/1999         Mid-term Review:                        05/16/2003
                                        Closing:             04/30/2004         05/31/2006



3. Ratings Summary


3.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Low
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

    Implementation Performance          Indicators       QAG Assessments (if any)            Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any time
                                      Yes           Quality at Entry (QEA):              Satisfactory
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time (Yes/No): Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):        Satisfactory
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                      Satisfactory
status:



4. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                      Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                                4                     4
Health                                                                          96                    96
                                                                 Original Priority    Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other communicable diseases                                      Primary             Primary
Health system performance                                        Primary             Primary



5. Bank Staff

                             Positions                                At ICR           At Approval
Vice President:                                                Pamela Cox          David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                              Axel van Trotsenburg Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:                                                Keith E. Hansen      Charles C. Griffin
Project Team Leader:                                           Isabella A. Danel    Anabela Abreu
ICR Team Leader:                                               Luis Orlando Perez
ICR Primary Author:                                            Juan Pablo Uribe




                                                   2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design:

        6.1        Context at Appraisal

           In the late nineties, the rationale for a specific investment loan aimed at strengthening public health in
           Argentina was strong. The Argentine health sector, despite important progress during the past decades,
           still suffered from significant levels of preventable diseases affecting, in particular, the poorest segments
           of the population. Regional disparities in health outcomes were linked to a higher incidence of various
           infectious diseases. Simultaneously, the incidence and prevalence of important non-communicable
           conditions were also increasing, having a major impact on the burden of disease.

           Meanwhile, the national, provincial and local capacity to address these and other unexpected public
           health threats remained low.         Instruments, systems and technical expertise dedicated to disease
           surveillance and control were weak. Health promotion to prevent non-communicable diseases was not
           sufficiently prioritized. Several earlier loans had supported the Government of Argentina (GOA) to
           further develop various health sector dimensions, including hospital management, primary care, infant
           and maternal services, financing and insurance, and provincial reforms.             However, public health
           remained an area needing technical assistance, investment and support for improvement.

           The Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project (the VIGI-A Project or the Project) was also
           consistent with Argentina's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed on November 1998.1 The
           CAS highlighted the importance of strengthening the institutional basis for investing in social capital to
           help improve social welfare and enhance workforce productivity. The VIGI-A Project contributed to
           this objective through various mechanisms. First, by improving the performance of public health
           functions, it would facilitate decision-making and improve the allocation of public resources in a critical
           social sector.    Second, it would strengthen the institutional capacity through training, technical
           assistance, improved management and upgraded facilities and reporting systems. Third, if successful, it
           would achieve higher health promotion and disease prevention levels for the country as a whole,
           reducing morbidity and mortality levels for targeted conditions, in particular among the poorest and
           most vulnerable segments of the population.

        6.2        Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

           The original objective of the VIGI-A Project was to "strengthen national, provincial, municipal and
           local institutions responsible for public health policy and practice".2 This objective would lead the
           Project to contribute to reduce the disease burden, especially among the poor, a group affected by a
           higher incidence of preventable diseases. To achieve its objective, the Project would focus its efforts in
           three areas: (i) public health surveillance, (ii) disease prevention and control, and (iii) health promotion.
           Specifically, in each one of these areas, the Project would:
                (i)     by strengthening disease surveillance, "improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health
                        (MOH) to make informed decisions about prevention and control priorities and to monitor
                        the impact of interventions";
                (ii)    "strengthen provincial capacity to carry out disease monitoring, control and prevention for
                        several diseases that pose a serious public health threat including tuberculosis, dengue and
                        hospital infections"; and




1CAS document number 16505-AR. Date of latest progress discussion: November 10, 1998.
2Based in the World Bank Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19154; September 24, 1999.



                                                                3

             (iii)     "help to develop a health promotion program focusing on education, social mobilization,
                       and advocacy".3

         The Project identified correctly its key indicators, combining both outcome variables as well as more
         process-oriented, institutional-strengthening targets.          All of them were properly aligned with the
         Project's objectives and with its implementation plan. The indicators detailed in Annex 1.a, included: (i)
         tuberculosis (TB) incidence decreased by 15 percent; (ii) hospital-acquired infections (also known as
         nosocomial infections) in target hospitals reduced by 20 percent in central catheters, 10 percent in
         urinary tract folleys and 10 percent in mechanical ventilators; (iii) 90 percent of all cases of detected
         invasive meningococcal disease investigated and properly managed; (iv) at least 200 influenza virus per
         year obtained from throat swabs in sentinel sites; (v) public health bulletins issued regularly; (vi) at least
         six people trained on outbreaks investigation; (vii) at least 120 people trained on data for decision
         making, and (viii) at least 30 people trained on laboratory safety. A detailed set of output indicators
         complemented these PDO indicators and facilitated monitoring and evaluation throughout project
         implementation (see Annex 1.b).

       6.3       Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
       reasons/justification

         The original objective of the VIGI-A Project and its PDOs were not revised during project
         implementation. Nonetheless, in 2002, in response to a severe economic, social and political crisis that
         affected Argentina, amendments to the Project's structure and implementation plan were agreed between
         the Borrower and the Bank, allowing the Project to serve as an effective instrument to mitigate the health
         impact of the ongoing crisis. At the same time, the crisis affected in various ways the implementation of
         the Project. Sections 6.6 and 6.7 detail further the effects of the crisis, the changes introduced in the
         Project to respond to the crisis and their impact on the achievement of its PDOs.

       6.4       Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

         The Project would work directly with those agencies responsible for core public health functions at the
         federal, provincial and local levels; namely, the national and provincial ministries of health, specialized
         public institutions (for example, those responsible for the public laboratory network and for controlling
         and addressing specific diseases such as TB and nosocomial infections), and public agencies at the local
         level (mostly public hospitals). In some specific components (for example, tobacco control and smoking
         cessation), the Project expected to work with (and strengthen) non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
         participating in public health efforts.

         Although federal, provincial and local public health agencies were the direct beneficiaries of the Project,
         it was expected that all Argentineans would benefit from a stronger disease surveillance and control
         capacity nationwide, as well as from more effective national programs to confront TB, dengue and
         nosocomial infections. In particular, the poorest segments of the population would be those most served,
         as they faced higher incidence and prevalence rates for most of the conditions (or diseases) that were the
         focus of the Project.

       6.5       Original Components (as approved)

         The Project originally consisted of three technical components and a fourth administrative component
         intended to facilitate its implementation. Its estimated total cost was US$74.5 million, with US$52.5
         million being financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan.


3World Bank Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19154; September 24, 1999.



                                                               4

           These resources would finance, among others, technical assistance, training and evaluation, grants for
           the implementation of local subprojects, software and hardware, equipment and civil works. Following
           is a description of each component as detailed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and reflected in
           the Loan Agreement.4

           Component I: Strengthening the Public Health Surveillance System (US$42.4 million, equivalent to
           57 percent of total project costs). This component, to be implemented gradually nationwide, was the
           largest, and supported the Project's objective to strengthen "the MOH institutional capacity to make
           informed decisions about prevention and control priorities and to monitor the impact of interventions".
           It included activities to:
                (i)     review surveillance norms and procedures, and standardize case definitions, reporting
                        procedures and data collection;
                (ii)    strengthen human resources capacity at all levels to carry out health surveillance activities;
                (iii)   rehabilitate, expand and upgrade the existing laboratory network (one laboratory level III, 36
                        laboratories level II and 25 laboratories level I);
                (iv)    improve the quality of the existing health data telecommunications, including the
                        development of an internet-based network for data transfer and storage;
                (v)     implement alternative surveillance methods (such as sentinel networks) and reduce the
                        number of conditions under surveillance, as a means to improve the rationale of the current
                        system;
                (vi)    evaluate the technical and economic aspects of the surveillance system;
                (vii)   finance operational research in epidemiological surveillance, and
                (viii) evaluate the effectiveness and relevance of training activities supported by the Project.

           Component II: Strengthening Disease Control (US$16.4 million, equivalent to 22 percent of total
           project costs).     This component supported the Project's objective to "strengthen the institutional
           capacity of participating provinces and the City of Buenos Aires to carry out disease monitoring, control
           and prevention". Specifically, it supported the following activities:
                (i)     TB control in ten provinces (selected based on their high incidence rates and prevalence of
                        bacillus multi-resistant to therapy) and the metropolitan area of the City of Buenos Aires;
                (ii)    dengue control in high risk populations through 52 sentinel sites;
                (iii)   control of hospital-acquired infections in 100 randomly selected hospitals (80 public and 20
                        private); and
                (iv)    control of emergent and re-emergent diseases that could appear during the Project's cycle.

           Component III: Health Promotion (US$9.7 million, equivalent to 13 percent of total project costs).
           This component supported the Project's objective to strengthen the MOH's capacity "to carry out a
           health promotion strategy through education, social mobilization and policy advocacy". It included
           activities to:
                (i)     strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOH's health promotion unit;
                (ii)    train health promotion personnel in media and communications, and health journalists in
                        disease surveillance and control;
                (iii)   support subprojects in disease prevention and health promotion to be implemented by local
                        institutions and community groups;
                (iv)    disseminate the Project's objectives and activities through regular newsletters, workshops,
                        conferences and technical meetings targeting different stakeholders;
                (v)     support meetings with political and social leaders that could ensure the Project's
                        sustainability;


4Loan Agreement Number 4516-AR (Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project) between the Argentine Republic and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated November 3, 2000.



                                                                 5

              (vi)   implement a media campaign against tobacco addiction based on the results of a risk factors
                     survey; and
              (vii)  advance a plan to include private corporations in a partnership with the MOH to combat
                     tobacco addiction in the workplace.

         Component IV: Project Administration (US$6.0 million, equivalent to 8 percent of total project
         costs). This last component would help finance the administrative and operating costs of the Project
         Coordinating Unit (PCU) over the initially envisioned four-year implementation period. It included
         salaries for technical and managerial staff (excluding that of personnel in the MOH structure), domestic
         and international travel of PCU staff, training and office equipment, materials and supplies.

        6.6      Revised Components

         In order to respond to the unfolding national crisis that severely affected the country between 2001 and
         2003, the Borrower and the Bank agreed on several loan amendments. These amendments sought to
         support the implementation of a National Emergency Health Plan led by the MOH and did not alter the
         Project's original objectives, as these remained valid and particularly relevant throughout the crisis.
         However, the amendments did introduce changes to the Project's structure by including a fifth
         component to finance activities not originally envisioned (mainly, strengthening a technical coordinating
         unit within the MOH), permitting the purchasing of new medications and supplies urgently needed
         throughout the crisis, and allowing fund reallocations between categories and components. Likewise,
         these amendments affected the implementation sequence and timing of various original activities.
         Overall, these changes mostly cut back on the reach and scope of Component I and Component III,
         while strengthened Component II. The following section (6.7) details the effects of these amendments,
         including the scope of the fifth component.

        6.7      Other significant changes

         During project implementation, the Bank's US$52.5 million loan for the VIGI-A Project was amended
         three times and its closing date extended also three times. A first loan amendment dated August 28,
         2000, responded to the Borrower's request for strengthening the MOH's Unit for International Financing
         in Health (UFI-S5), by authorizing a short-term financing of technical assistance and training. With this
         request, the Borrower sought to increase its institutional capacity at the national level, an objective fully
         aligned with several of the Project's programmatic lines. Provision of technical assistance and training
         to the UFI-S sought to: (a) strengthen the coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of
         programs and projects financed by multilateral and bilateral agencies, and (b) ensure coherence between
         such programs and projects and the overall policies and procedures of the MOH.

         In the middle of the national crisis, a second loan amendment dated July 1, 2002, created a fifth project
         component, added new activities to be supported and reallocated funds within original project
         components. The fifth component maintained the institutional strengthening of the MOH via the
         financing of technical assistance and training for the UFI-S, now the administrative unit within the MOH
         responsible for assisting all externally-funded health projects in their administrative functions, including
         procurement and financial aspects. With this reform, the PCU saw its work limited to that of technical
         coordination.

         Also introduced by this second amendment was the financing of interventions and supplies not initially
         contemplated by the Project but needing immediate support throughout the crisis. These interventions
         and supplies were identified following a cost-effectiveness assessment done by the MOH, with technical


5Also known as the UCPPFE, "Unidad de Coordinacion de Programas y Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo".



                                                             6

           assistance from the PCU and the Bank. Included here were (a) the monitoring, control and prevention of
           HIV-AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including the purchasing of antiretroviral
           medications and diagnoses supplies for blood banks, and (b) an agreement with the Pan American
           Health Organization (PAHO) to facilitate the purchasing of these and other essential medical supplies,
           including vaccines.

           A third project amendment was approved in July 15, 2004. This amendment enabled the Project to
           complete its support of the National Emergency Health Plan and included the financing of additional
           drugs, vaccines, medical supplies, pesticides and equipment for the storage and distribution of vaccines,
           as well as the reallocation of funds between loan categories and components.


7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

         7.1        Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

           The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the VIGI-A Project's quality at entry as satisfactory.
           This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) concurs with this assessment and considers
           the Project well conceived to address its objectives.                    The Project was properly aligned with the
           developmental stage and needs of the Argentine health sector. Its objectives and strategy were fully
           consistent with the CAS objectives and the defined activities were consistent with then recently
           concluded, ongoing and/or planned projects in the country, securing synergies and economies of scale
           where possible. For example, specific public health interventions were defined to complement the then
           ongoing Bank-financed HIV-AIDS Project.

           The Project's main challenge was to strengthen successfully public health and contribute to the ultimate
           goal of reducing the disease burden. To address this challenge, lessons learned from other national and
           international initiatives were discussed and properly reflected in its design. In particular, experiences
           from Brazil's Disease Surveillance and Control (VIGISUS) Project, the first of its type in the region,
           were closely reviewed and incorporated. For example, the Project's design reflected the importance of
           selecting a limited number of high-priority areas within the public health field in which to concentrate
           efforts, focusing on a realistic surveillance system (narrowing disease priorities according to objective
           criteria), and including demand-driven components.

           While incorporating these lessons, the VIGI-A Project was able to maintain its focus on improving the
           health status of the poor. This was explicitly reflected by: (i) selecting prevention and control diseases
           that mostly affected the poor, (ii) focusing on strengthening health promotion in behavioral and risk
           areas also relevant among low income families, (iii) prioritizing project investments and interventions in
           those regions of the country that were underperforming in terms of the PDOs (such as the northeast and
           northwest regions, the poorest in Argentina), and (iv) overall, strengthening the federal and provincial
           health agencies in leading core public health functions such as epidemiologic surveillance, disease
           prevention and control, and health promotion.

           Various project alternatives were considered and rejected before deciding the final structure.6 Design
           decisions were technically sound and reflected a thorough understanding of Argentina's health sector. A
           flexible design was preferred for parts of Components II and III in recognition of the existing provincial
           and local differences. At the same time, an ex-ante definition of those structural conditions needed to


6Main alternatives discussed during project preparation included flexible versus rigid designs, comprehensive versus focused activities,
implementation phasing by region and/or disease versus phasing by activities, focusing on communicable versus non-communicable
conditions, or both, and the extent of eventual private interventions versus a predominantly public role.



                                                                       7

secure a national surveillance system (mostly in Component I) was also built in. An economic analysis
helped select a limited number of conditions to monitor (29 out of an original set of 50). The phasing-in
of implementation was defined based on activities, hence avoiding leaving provinces or important
selected conditions out.     An incremental approach to include non-communicable diseases in the
surveillance system acknowledged the growing burden of disease imposed by such conditions. Lastly,
with the exception of the expected participation of private hospitals in the reduction of nosocomial
infections, it was decided that public entities would be the main beneficiaries in this initial phase to
strengthen public health.

The selection of disease priorities was a particularly important decision. Technical criteria, including a
detailed economic analysis, were used for this process. The possible impact of individual diseases, the
cost-effectiveness of available control interventions, and the expected contribution of improved
surveillance were aspects considered. This analysis estimated the resulting benefits of disease control,
illustrating the relevance of such initiatives. Cost-benefit simulations were done for the three selected
conditions of Component II (dengue, TB and nosocomial infections), demonstrating the relevance of the
expected results.

Further assessments took into consideration other aspects critical for success. The Project's recurrent
costs implications were carefully reviewed and revealed a relatively modest fiscal impact that was
discussed with the Borrower. The technical capacity demand resulting from implementation was also
examined at the federal and provincial levels. This assessment was made with collaboration from the
Centers for Disease Control (CDC), reflecting the commitment to bringing best available expertise to
project design. As a result of such evaluation, an extensive and detailed training program was built into
all project components. A detailed plan for transferring technical capacity at the federal and provincial
levels ­and, hence, contribute to future sustainability- was anticipated.           Likewise, international
experience was sought to help determine the upgrading of the laboratory network. The review and
utilization of disease-control protocols from the PAHO and the World Health Organization (WHO)
ratified this concern for technical soundness.

Conditions for loan effectiveness were clearly laid out and included conditions required to begin
implementation: structuring of the PCU, terms of reference for critical staff (in the PCU) and selection
of missing technical personnel (in the MOH), agreement on the Project's operational manual, prior
review of existing norms and procedures for disease surveillance, and the definition of the institutional
framework and needed agreements for the funds flow through the federal, provincial and municipal
levels.

The Project was defined with ample participation. Consultations were held with its main stakeholders,
in particular the federal and provincial ministries of health. Various professional associations, NGOs
and other related public health agencies also participated.       Local involvement was enhanced by
including financing for local subprojects that met pre-define eligibility criteria (a demand-driven activity
in Component III). A participatory approach cut across the design of other components: having an
external advisory group and considering ample communication efforts were examples of this interest.

Finally, risk factors that could affect implementation were properly identified and considered. Among
the risks and the ensuing mitigating measures incorporated into project design were the following: (i)
lack of governmental commitment, mitigated via active involvement in project preparation and
implementation; (ii) insufficient technical capacity within executing agencies, addressed with ample
training, hiring and transferring of key technical personnel; and (iii) the impact of recurrent costs,
evaluated as low and expected to stabilize or further decrease in the long-run as effective surveillance
would reduce epidemics and other related health expenditures.



                                                8

Retrospectively, this ICR identifies only two elements where further anticipation and discussion at the
moment of entry could have further contributed to the Project's success. These elements are: (i) if a
different lending instrument should have been preferred; and (ii) how to further secure sub-national
participation within Argentina's federal health sector structure. Following is a brief comment on each
one of these points.

    · In hindsight, it could be argued that, for the Project's objectives, an adaptable programmatic
         lending (APL) instrument may have been more suitable than a SIL. Strengthening public health
         is a long-term endeavor that requires phasing-in and continuity of interventions in order to
         secure comprehensive coverage and sustained progress. In fact, as this ICR is being concluded,
         the Borrower and the Bank have discussed and agreed on a new loan to further strengthen
         essential public health functions in Argentina. At the time this project was being prepared,
         however, the APL instrument had recently been introduced, and there was little experience with
         it.

    · The Project anticipated but did not sufficiently provide effective incentives to secure better
         provincial and local participation.         Although provincial and municipal "participation
         agreements" were used to facilitate the funds flow, the issue of how to ensure compliance with
         and sustainability of key project developments at the sub-national levels was not resolved. As
         later on discussed, this created difficulties in reaching and sustaining specific outputs and
         outcomes: for example, in the utilization and maintenance of the surveillance system (including
         the recurrent connectivity nodes costs) or in expanding the TB treatment strategy in certain
         provinces. This challenge, however, is not particular of the VIGI-A Project, but rather has been
         and remains a structural challenge faced by all national health sector projects in Argentina.

7.2     Implementation
(Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

Project implementation was successful especially in view of the unexpected challenges the VIGI-A
Project faced throughout implementation. In particular, the Project was under implementation when a
severe economic, political and social crisis affected the country in 2001. However, because the Project
was designed primarily to improve the health status of the poor and focused on prevention and control of
diseases that affected mostly this group, the Project's objectives became even more relevant with the
crisis that brought an increasing proportion of the population into poverty. In fact, it could be argued
that not only did the GOA continue its strong support for the Project as a vehicle to mitigate the effects
of the crisis on the poor, but that were it not for the Project, the crisis would have led not to a reduction
in targeted diseases such as TB but to an actual increase. Although it was initially affected by the crisis
(as were by far most of the projects in the Bank-financed portfolio then in the country), the Project was
able to overcome the effects of the national crisis throughout the middle phase of its implementation.
Following is a chronological recount of the main features of the VIGI-A Project implementation.

Implementation began immediately after loan effectiveness, with the preparatory work done during the
design phase contributing to a fast start. This positive beginning was not reflected right away in the
disbursement rate, as many of the initial efforts were not immediately reflected in disbursements.
Activities in nosocomial infections control did not quickly advance as apparent coordination difficulties
arose with the public institute specialized in this field (the Jara Institute in the city of Mar de Plata).

By the end of 2001, the national crisis began affecting both project implementation and project outputs
and outcomes, and demanded drastic responses by the Borrower and the Bank (see Section 6.7). The
crisis affected simultaneously the Project's implementation capacity and the very variables it was trying


                                                  9

           to address.        Internally, the crisis limited counterpart funding, brought high political turnover and
           instability, and created managerial challenges mainly with staffing and procurement activities.
           Externally, it forced modifications in policy priorities, increased poverty levels and consequently the
           health status of especially the Project's increasing target population, and deteriorated access to and
           provision of basic health services.

           Since project preparation, close attention had been given to the availability of counterpart funds. In fact,
           the Bank provided advice early on the importance of ensuring adequate levels of counterpart funding.
           However, the national crisis affected the Project's counterpart funding. As budgetary restrictions
           aggravated with the crisis, there was a need for prioritizing (and even rationing) activities across all
           project components, altering the sequencing of project activities and delaying various outputs. Staffing
           and technical assistance reached critically low levels at the national and provincial levels, and
           procurement problems with equipment and civil works surfaced, in part due to counterpart funding
           difficulties, in part to the inherent difficulty of determining new purchasing prices as the Argentinean
           peso devaluated. Components I and III were the most affected, in particular the latter, and total project
           costs were reduced from US$75 million to US$63 million.

           However, the crisis itself soon became an opportunity for strengthening the Project, as the Government
           sought to use project implementation to address negative social effects of the crisis. To this end, the
           GOA structured a National Emergency Health Plan lead by the MOH. To support this Plan, several
           existing multilaterally-financed projects, including various Bank-financed projects from diverse sectors,
           were amended and part of their funds redirected.7 The VIGI-A Project was not only part of this
           response: it quickly became the best-positioned vehicle to support direct interventions for disease
           prevention and control that mitigated the effect of the crisis on the poor. For this, an agreement was
           reached quickly between the MOH and the Bank to protect funding of critical project activities. This
           agreement was convenient and timely, allowing the MOH to better respond to the health effects of the
           crisis itself. In Component I, training activities and the response to disease epidemics (outbreak
           investigations) were key areas protected. Component II was mostly untouched as the need for disease
           control became more evident. Furthermore, new resources and activities were added to it in order to
           expand its actions to other diseases, such as HIV-AIDS and STDs. At the time, the implementation of
           Component III was the most affected, as funds were temporarily redirected to more urgent health sector
           needs, although it later on regained momentum and reached its objectives.

           Adapting to the MOH's decisions also proved an important challenge during implementation. In
           particular, in 2002, the MOH decided to expand the functions and responsibility of its unit responsible
           for coordinating all externally-funded health projects. With this decision, the Unit for International
           Financing in Health (UFI-S) took over various key project functions in an attempt to secure better
           efficiency, improve managerial quality and, overall, enhance portfolio coordination. This transition
           generated frictions between the UFI-S and PCU staff, as staff of the PCU argued that UFI-S staff were
           meddling in technical decisions and staff appointments. Possible duplication of functions and a slow-
           down in procurement processes became additional concerns. This situation affected not only the VIGI-
           A Project but other ongoing health projects as well. The MOH and the Bank evaluated the interaction of
           the UFI-S with existing health projects and an agreement was reached on how to strengthen its functions
           while simultaneously improving project implementation.              Ultimately, the UFI-S improved its
           procurement capacities and effectively contributed to implementation.

           High rotation of key staff proved to be an additional challenge.               During the Project's six-year
           implementation period, there were five Presidents, three Ministers of Health, two National Directors of


7In October 2002, World Bank loan amendments freed more than US$100 million to be redirected to support the national emergency
health response to the crisis.



                                                              10

            Epidemiology and four PCU coordinators.8 During 2002, in the middle of the crisis, there were three
            different PCU coordinators and all four heads of project components were changed. High rotation of
            staff took place not only at the MOH and the PCU, but also at the provincial ministries of health.

            As a result of the above, implementation progress slowed during 2002 and part of 2003, becoming
            unsatisfactory for a while in 2003, as determined in the mid-term supervision mission. However, after
            the 2003 national elections, with the leadership of the new government in office, the Project was able to
            regain momentum and implementation pace. With active support from the MOH, the UFI-S and the
            Bank, the PCU was able to consolidate progress across all components and achieve important outcomes.
            The Project's implementation timetable, originally envisioned from 1999 until 2003, was extended three
            times to support this effort: the first extension went until July 30, 2005; a second extension followed
            until March 30, 2006; the third and final extension, limited to specific goods to be procured, was until
            May 30, 2006. These extensions were all justified for the PDOs were deemed achievable, as later on
            proved.

          7.3        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

            The VIGI-A Project design included a detailed set of output and outcome indicators intended to facilitate
            its ongoing monitoring and evaluation (see Annex 1). During this preparatory phase, a management
            system was developed and implemented by the PCU to keep proper track of its performance in the
            various relevant dimensions of project implementation.

            Despite such prior efforts, the PCU encountered difficulties in performing its monitoring and evaluation
            function, especially in maintaining updated indicators for the disease control Component II. A high
            degree of interaction and coordination with public agencies leading national disease programs (such as
            TB and nosocomial infections, with the CONI and Jara Institutes, respectively) was needed, and at some
            moments required a high level of collaboration of the MOH.

            Permanent communication between the Borrower, the PCU and the Bank, including regular supervision
            missions with field trips to provinces and specialized institutes involved in the various project
            components, helped keep close track of progress being made. The MOH National Epidemiology and
            Health Promotion Directorates, strengthened by the same Project, added to this effort with monitoring
            and evaluation of the various components and ongoing communication with the provinces.

            In addition, mid-term and final evaluations with the participation of external experts were included to
            secure objectives and provide useful feedback. The mid-term evaluation took place in 2003 and helped
            strengthen project implementation. An external final evaluation is also available, with results aligned
            with those of this ICR and reflected as inputs in the Borrower's own project evaluation (see Annex 10).

          7.4        Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
          (focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

            The VIGI-A Project was qualified at entry as C category regarding environmental issues. The Project
            fulfilled and complied with all environmental Bank policies throughout its implementation, in particular
            in those relevant aspects related with the expansion of the public health laboratory network. Likewise,
            there was a complete and successful observance of all fiduciary aspects.




8 The first PCU director lasted from 1999 to 2002; the second one acted only during 2002, a third one was present during part of 2003 and
the fourth and last came since then.



                                                                  11

       7.5       Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
       (Including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
       operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
       next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

         One of the Project's strongest accomplishments was securing an explicit and closely monitored
         transition arrangement of the newly developed disease surveillance and control capacities to regular
         national and provincial public health operations. From project preparation onward, this was considered
         a critical step to assure sustainability of outputs and outcomes.

         In order to advance in this purpose, early on in project implementation, the MOH epidemiologic
         surveillance and health promotion structures were strengthened. In addition, following the mid-term
         review and the presidential elections, there was renewed commitment to the Project's objectives and a
         focus on its sustainability. The PCU was physically integrated in the same offices of the MOH, reducing
         the risk of isolation. A comprehensive training and technical assistance plan at all levels and in all
         project areas was implemented. A detailed plan for transferring trained federal and provincial project
         staff to their respective ministries was agreed and fully implemented. By the end of 2005, roughly 15
         central and 45 provincial trained staff had been absorbed by their respective ministries. Close work with
         other agencies responsible for specific public health functions added to the above effort to secure
         sustainability. This was the case of the work done by the Project with the ANLIS, responsible for the
         public laboratory network, and with the CONI and Jara Institutes, responsible for the national TB and
         nosocomial infections control programs, respectively. These leading institutions, also strengthened by
         the Project, will be responsible for maintaining post-completion operations.

         Post-completion efforts are also underway in health promotion, in particular in the area of non-
         communicable diseases. Currently, the MOH is leading the discussion of a national health promotion
         plan defined using technical inputs provided by the Project, such as the results of the risk factors survey.
         Regular budgets in the MOH have absorbed most of the activities and technical capacity developed by
         the Project.

         Finally, both the Borrower and the Bank have approved9 a subsequent operation in the public health
         field ( AR-Essential Public Health Function and Progrmas Project) that build upon progress made by the
         VIGI-A Project and further consolidate essential public health functions in Argentina.            The new
         approved project has as its development objectives to increase the coverage of ten prioritized public
         health programs, reduce the population's exposure to risk factors associated with collective illnesses,
         and improve the regulatory and stewardship role of the Nation's public health system. This new project
         build on the success of the VIGI-A Project, in particular of its national public health surveillance system,
         completing the network of information nodes and assuring data utilization for policy making, outbreak
         identification and control, and disease prevention. Likewise, it will also strengthen health promotion
         capacities and activities both at the national and provincial levels.


8. Assessment of Outcomes

       8.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
       (To current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

         The objectives of the VIGI-A Project were relevant when the Project was designed, and became even
         more relevant as Argentina went through a crisis in which poverty, and the diseases associated with it,

9Approved by the Board of Directors on November 21, 2006 (Loan 7412-AR)



                                                              12

 increased in the short time. As of today, such objectives and the implementation achievements of the
 VIGI-A Project remain fully relevant. In the current situation of the country, emerging out of a national
 crisis that had deep effects at all levels, effective public health programs are of the greatest social
 importance.    In fact, the GOA, through its MOH, has clearly expressed its policy for further
 consolidating public health functions throughout the country.

 Such decision is further supported by on-folding global events. This is the case of the growing
 understanding of the importance of proper disease surveillance and control capacities to confront the
 emerging threat of new epidemics and/or even pandemics, with incredible potential social and economic
 impact, as is the case of the avian flu. The World Bank itself has responded to this new challenge, up-
 scaling its assistance strategy to support client countries in their efforts to be prepared to respond.
 Progress made by the VIGI-A Project helps Argentina be in a much better position to effectively respond
 to these new risks.      The same situation also applies to the rising prevalence of chronic, non-
 communicable diseases.

 Lastly, the advisability of including hospital-acquired (nosocomial) infections (as part of Component II)
 may be an element for consideration in future efforts. There seems to be a mismatch between the causes
 and solutions behind this serious public health threat and the instruments and interventions anticipated
 by the Project. Hospital-acquired infections, precisely because they take place within complex and
 highly heterogeneous institutional settings and have much to do with the particularities of clinical
 management, are a distant and extremely challenging condition for the reach and impact of a project that
 mostly intervened at a different public health setting via public agencies. Advancing in a sustainable
 way would require working in dimensions not included in the Project, such as health personnel policies
 and incentives, contracting arrangements and accreditation of private health providers. Due to these
 differences, efforts in this area had minimum opportunities of building synergies with progress made in
 other components. That was not the case for the other two conditions included here (TB and dengue),
 which directly benefited from efforts done in Component I.

8.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(Including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)

 The VIGI-A Project's overriding objective -to strengthen national, provincial, municipal and local
 institutions responsible for public health policy in Argentina- was achieved. The Project was able to
 advance all its components, achieve important public health outputs and outcomes, enhance institutional
 development and secure sustainability for most progress made.            It achieved so in spite of the
 concomitant national crisis that shocked Argentina precisely during the years when the Project was
 expected to have reached its full implementation rhythm. All stakeholders interviewed during this ICR
 agree on the significance of the contributions made by the VIGI-A Project, which helped increase the
 visibility of public health in Argentina and built a strong set of effective systems and instruments for
 improving its performance in disease prevention and control.

 The achievement of the Project's overriding objective is particularly strong at the national and provincial
 levels. Epidemiologic surveillance and disease control was modernized and its structure and function
 transformed at both the national MOH and all provincial ministries. Public health surveillance shifted
 from a slow paper system to one using rapid, weekly Web-based reporting. National disease control
 programs were improved. Nonetheless, as expected in a federal health structure such as Argentina's, the
 provincial response was not homogenous. Progress in some provinces was better than in others. The
 contribution at the municipal and local levels, although also evident in many of the Project's activities, is
 more difficult to assess due to coverage limitations and evaluation constraints.



                                                 13

Progress made in the selected key performance indicators supports this positive evaluation. As shown in
Annex 1.a, seven out of the eight indicators defined in the PAD experienced a positive trend. Five
indicators were reached or surpassed at the time of loan closure or project completion. Included here are
the surveillance, detection and proper management of invasive meningococcal disease and influenza
virus, the regular issuance of public health bulletins, and the training of health personnel in advanced
outbreak investigation and laboratory safety. Only two indicators did not meet entirely their targets,
although they did make strong progress in that direction: the incidence of TB and nosocomial infections.
Little or no progress was made in training in data for decision-making. However, all other training
indicators show performance exceeding expected targets. For these three indicators, a more detailed
discussion is provided below and complemented in Annex 4.

    · TB reduction. The VIGI-A Project was expected to contribute to reduce the national TB
        incidence through better detection, control and treatment of the disease, and it appeared to make
        steady progress in this direction during the first years of implementation (2000-2002). Despite
        this progress in detection, control and treatment, in 2003, an increase in the TB national
        incidence was observed. This situation may be explained, at least partially, by several factors.
        First, the national crisis that increased poverty levels, seriously affected basic health services
        and generated a shortage of essential medications. Secondly, enhanced capacity to detect TB,
        supported by the Project, in and of itself could have led to an increased number of reported
        cases. Finally, difficulties to advance with the defined disease control strategy by one province
        (the Province of Buenos Aires, the most populous one) also contributed to this situation. In any
        event, the Project without doubt contributed to mitigate the effects of the crisis by helping
        sustain adequate diagnosis and treatment levels for this condition. The reported TB incidences
        for 2004 and 2005, again in the expected direction of reduction, support these arguments.
        Overall, the TB incidence dropped between 2000 and 2005 by 4.5 percent.

    · Nosocomial infections reduction. Activities related to this objective suffered delay in the
        beginning of implementation due to communication difficulties with the public agency
        responsible for implementing a national program in this field (the Jara Institute). With further
        delays due to the crisis, the reach and depth of its interventions had to be redefined, and since
        2004 the Project was able to accelerate efforts in this area, achieving important progress in all
        public and private participating hospitals. These positive results, confirmed by an outside
        evaluation conducted by a Center for Disease Control ­CDC- expert during the time of this ICR,
        may be sustained and replicated in the future.

    · Training in data for decision-making. Although this activity as originally envisaged (which
        required international contracting with CDC) was cancelled due to the fiscal and political
        constraints brought by the crisis, the Project's overall objective of contributing to strengthening
        the technical capacity in the field was addressed through other training programs that were
        prioritized, preserved and properly implemented, surpassing initial targets and securing the
        Project's overriding objective.

The achievement of key performance indicators was possible due to progress made in all project
components.     A detailed discussion of the outputs of each component is presented in Annex 4.
Following is a brief analysis of progress under each component and its relation with the achievement of
PDOs, which is described in greater detail in Annex 1.

Component I: Strengthening the Public Health Surveillance System.
The objective of this first component, "to strengthen the MOH institutional capacity to make informed
decisions about prevention and control priorities and to monitor the impact of interventions", was
achieved. The VIGI-A Project contributed to the design and implementation of a modern, rapid, Web-


                                               14

based disease surveillance system in Argentina. The resulting system surpasses the capacity, speed and
reach of the previous one (the SINAVE, or Sistema Nacional de Vigilancia Epidemiologica), enabling
the MOH to conduct stronger disease monitoring, perform proper technical analysis and reach effective
control responses in a timely manner. In practical terms, the MOH moved from having to take
epidemiological decisions based on partial and/or incomplete surveillance information as old as six
weeks or more to now having a comprehensive understanding of what's going on in the field with no
more than a one-week gap.

Specific outputs in this component worth being highlighted include:
    · reviewed and published new norms and procedures for surveillance, and standardized case
        definitions, reporting procedures and data collection,
    · over 100 trained health personnel at all levels to carry out health surveillance, including a
        strengthened National Epidemiology Directorate and an ongoing Field Epidemiology Training
        Program (FETP) with 13 graduates in advance outbreak investigation,
    · an upgraded and expanded network of over 80 national and provincial public health
        laboratories, including a world-class high complexity level facility,
    · improved health data telecommunications and software to process and timely analyze data
        information,
    · functioning alternative surveillance methods (including sentinel networks for diarrhea, hepatitis,
        influenza and injuries, among other conditions), and
    · weekly electronic disease incidence reports and monthly national and provincial epidemiology
        bulletins.

Component II:
Component II supported the strengthening of disease control programs. Of particular significance was
the development of sentinel nodes to complement universal disease surveillance. Also, as already
discussed, it incorporated most of the new activities included to support the National Health Emergency
Plan implemented by the MOH to respond to the crisis. In particular, it:
    · supported TB control in ten provinces and the Buenos Aires metropolitan area, resulting in an
       increase in DOTS to 64.1 percent and a decrease in TB incidence though not as great as
       expected,
    · conducted dengue control in high-risk populations, with more than 5,000 field workers trained
       and with no major dengue outbreaks in Argentina despite such outbreaks in neighboring
       countries,
    · promoted a successful pilot program in public and private hospitals for the control of hospital-
       acquired infections,
    · strengthened key national programs throughout the crisis, including the HIV-AIDS and the
       blood laboratory national programs, and
    · helped control emergent and re-emergent diseases that appeared, or threatened to appear, during
       the Project's cycle.

Component III:
Progress made here was strong and exceeded the most optimistic estimates. The Project envisioned
tobacco control activities as the leading edge of improved health promotion capacity and intervention,
while also advancing other important areas for health promotion and disease prevention. With an active
and comprehensive involvement from the Project, and based on solid leadership by the MOH,
Argentina made substantial progress in tobacco control initiatives and smoking cessation programs. It
also begun activities in the area of diet and negotiated reduced salt content in bread produced by major
bakeries.




                                               15

 The vision of implementing a health promotion component with strong social participation and
 advocacy was the only element that lagged behind, as there was no timely consensus on a national
 health promotion plan. However, led by the MOH and working mainly in community-based heath
 promotion, the Project supported the creation of the healthy municipalities network, reaching more than
 10 percent of the country's municipalities. Likewise, it helped design and carry out the first national
 risk factors survey, a critical tool for directing a national health promotion policy. This effort was done
 together with the National Institute for Census and Statistics, hence contributing to its future replication
 and sustainability.

 Specific outputs in this component worth being highlighted include the following:
     · strengthened MOH tobacco control unit,
     · 145 trained MOH health personnel in media and communications, and 164 trained journalists in
         disease surveillance and control, with an increase in newspaper articles related to health and,
         particularly, to tobacco control,
     · 94 local (community) sub-projects in health promotion and disease prevention,
     · 12 media campaigns against tobacco addiction, with participation of public and private
         organizations in combating tobacco addiction in the workplace, and
     · the first national behavioral risk factor survey, which is essential to providing a baseline and
         monitoring progress in non-communicable disease prevention.

 Component IV:
 Project administration, including all procurement and fiduciary activities, were properly implemented
 under this component until the creation of the fifth component intended to strengthen the UFI-S. Then,
 this component remained supporting the PCU in its technical core functions and in minor administrative
 tasks, maintaining satisfactory and efficient performances, especially notable in the case of the logistical
 support provided to secure project activities in Components I and III throughout the crisis.

 Component V:
 This component was created with the second loan amendment to respond to a Borrower's request to
 strengthen the MOH's technical coordinating unit, the UFI-S, through short-term financing of technical
 assistance and training.    Specific outputs in this component worth being highlighted include the
 following:
     · strengthened coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of programs and projects
         financed by multilateral and bilateral agencies,
     · improved coherence between such programs and projects,
     · improved MOH capacity to manage national and international procurement and financial
         processes, and
     · effective support to coordinate the MOH's response (and its National Health Emergency Plan)
         throughout the crisis. See Annex 13.2 "Summary of ICR for the Health Emergency
         Component"

8.3     Efficiency

 Not applicable.

8.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs and efficiency)

 Rating:   SATISFACTORY




                                                  16

 The VIGI-A Project satisfactorily achieved its overriding objective and most of its intended outcomes.
 First and foremost, it increased the visibility of public health as an effective and needed dimension to
 improve the health status of the population, in particular the poor. Second, it effectively strengthened
 key functions within the public health area, such as disease surveillance and control, disease prevention
 and health promotion. It did so emphasizing the importance of developing institutional capacity at all
 levels and ensuring sustainability, and with high technical standards.

 The relevance for Argentina of such accomplishments is unquestionable. Stronger public health will
 contribute to social and economic development, helping reduce inequalities and mitigating the impact of
 poverty.    Likewise, it will contribute to more efficient decision-making in health policy, while
 contributing to lessen the impact of current and future health threats such as the avian flu.

 The efficiency of such progress is strong as reflected in a highly positive cost-benefit analysis of the
 interventions done in TB and hospital-acquired infections. As depicted in Annex 5, the benefits brought
 by these two interventions greatly exceed the overall total costs incurred by the Project.

8.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(If any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a)      Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

 Project design had an indirect poverty focus, as some of the main diseases prioritized in it for control
 (like TB and dengue) had higher incidence rates among lower income families. Health promotion and
 disease prevention activities also focused on conditions that greatly affect the poor (including tobacco
 consumption, STDs and HIV-AIDS).

 Although there is no specific indicator available, it is thought that with its successful implementation
 that strengthened core public health functions throughout the country, the VIGIA Project positively
 contributed to social development and poverty alleviation. The health promotion and disease prevention
 activities carried out by the Project, including the 94 local (community) sub-projects, contributed to
 create the healthy municipalities' network and, most surely, to broad social development.            The
 communication campaigns aimed at generating stronger social awareness regarding the risks of tobacco,
 HIV-AIDS and STDs, and the benefits of maintaining healthy life styles, added in this direction.

 The Project had no direct links to gender aspects.

(b)      Institutional Change/Strengthening
(Particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

 The VIGI-A Project had a substantial positive impact on Argentina's public health institutional capacity.
 As a direct result of the Project, the institutional capacity to monitor, control and prevent diseases
 improved throughout the country. This strengthening took place both at the national and provincial
 levels and also reached the municipal level. This institutional development most likely will be sustained
 in the long-term. Specific institutional contributions brought by the Project include the following:

      · The Project was instrumental in strengthening the disease surveillance and control capacity at
          the national and provincial ministries of health. The technical units at these levels responsible
          for this core public health function are now better staffed, trained and equipped.         More
          importantly, these ministerial units are now better coordinated to perform their public health
          functions through the use of technological tools and proved coordination mechanisms.



                                                 17

      · The implementation of a more robust national disease surveillance and control system is
          another major institutional step facilitated by the Project. This system is fully integrated, easily
          sustainable and already proven effective.

      · Proper project design and rigorous implementation impeded the PCU from becoming an
          independent, isolated technical unit within the MOH. Rather, a detailed plan for transferring
          knowledge and capacity to the leading technical units at the central and provincial ministries
          was anticipated, implemented and completed. With this, new developed capacities are now
          imbedded in the national and provincial ministries.

      · Enhancing the institutional capacity to train specialized public health staff in disease
          surveillance and control was another key result of the Project. The FETP created with support
          from the Project is now a fully institutionalized training program at the national level, and is
          being replicated in two provinces. This guarantee today and in the future the existence of high-
          level technical capacity to lead public health functions nationwide.

      · The upgrade of the national laboratory network is also a positive end-result of the Project. This
          activity improved bio-safety at all levels of the network, including improvement to Level 3 in
          the national reference laboratory.       It avoided fragmenting or duplicating already existent
          capacity and is fully institutionalized in the ANLIS.

      · Health promotion and prevention activities developed at the municipal level have contributed to
          a great extent to the creation of the healthy municipalities' network, a growing initiative leaded
          by the MOH to strengthen community-based health promotion.

      · The national MOH, through its UFI-S, increased its institutional capacity to coordinate,
          supervise, monitor and evaluate health programs and projects financed by multilateral and
          bilateral agencies, and to carry out properly procurement and financial processes.

      · Lastly, the Project also contributed to maintain and strengthen the institutional leadership and
          performance of the national MOH throughout a difficult period. The MOH came out of the
          2001 crisis as a leading public agency capable not only of addressing the challenges imposed by
          the crisis itself, but of leading other core public health issues such as tobacco prevention.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

 More than strictly "unintended outcomes", a couple of unexpected positive associations did occur with
 the Project during its implementation and deserve being highlighted. Both of them properly illustrate the
 importance of having a stronger public health function in the country, much more during difficult social
 moments such as those brought by a national crisis, or when confronting unexpected health threats. The
 impact of both associations is difficult to assess; nonetheless, both are significant.

 The first unintended outcome had to do with the national crisis itself. The existence of a public health
 loan such as the VIGI-A Project during these moments became an important coincidence that was
 quickly used by the Borrower to support a national emergency health response. This was the case with
 the purchasing of vital public goods including vaccines, and anti-TB and anti-retroviral medications.
 For these and other key public health functions, the MOH identified in the Project a set of valuable
 technical skills, instruments and resources needed to confront some of the situations brought by the
 crisis.




                                                   18

         Second, although it was clear since project design that a stronger disease surveillance and control system
         would bring important positive externalities such as the control of unexpected disease outbreaks, the
         benefits of including influenza surveillance in the system most probably were then underestimated. At
         the moment of project design, the risk of an avian flu pandemic seemed remote to all. Now, having a
         strong influenza surveillance system in place positions Argentina in a much better place to confront an
         eventual influenza pandemic.

       8.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
       (Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

         Stakeholder workshops or beneficiary surveys were not conducted for this ICR. However, the results of
         an ICR field mission to Argentina in February 2006 are important. During this mission, numerous
         individuals that interacted with the Project during its various implementation phases and from different
         perspectives were interviewed. Included here were people from the national, provincial and local levels,
         both from public agencies and NGOs (a detailed list of people interviewed is provided in Annex 12). A
         common finding was evident: for all, the VIGI-A Project contributed to positively change public health
         in the country, bringing more visibility to it while at the same time strengthening core instruments and
         processes.


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

         Rating:    LOW

         The risk to the development outcomes brought by the VIGI-A Project, given progress made in
         institutionalizing critical functions and instruments for disease surveillance and control, is rated as low.
         This result has a particular merit when taking into account the severe negative impact the national crisis
         had throughout a major fraction of the Project's implementation cycle and, in particular, its pressure to
         speed up activities during the last two years of implementation.

         The MOH has demonstrated strong commitment to maintaining and further developing core elements
         supported by the VIGI-A Project. Its National Epidemiology Directorate is fully staffed and leads
         disease surveillance throughout the country utilizing the new disease surveillance and control system.
         Although the situation at the provincial level varies from one province to another, overall, it can be
         stated that the new systems and instruments developed by the Project have also been well received,
         incorporated into the daily public health functions and properly applied. Furthermore, both the MOH
         and some provinces have already taken steps that surpass the initial scope of the Project. This is the case
         of the FETP, maintained and expanded by the MOH and now being replicated by two provinces. The
         ongoing governmental effort to further advance tobacco consumption control is another important
         example followed by some provincial authorities, as is the incorporation of trained personnel by the
         national and provincial ministries.

         The sustainability of specific instruments and activities at the municipal level is supported by the healthy
         municipalities network, which has maintained a growing momentum from the time of project
         completion.     In the case of specialized institutions in charge of national public health programs,
         restricted budgets could compete in the near future with the higher intensity level of activities brought by
         the Project. Maintaining training activities, proper supply of key inputs, renovation of equipment and/or
         upgrades of software are examples of areas that may be in danger when competing with traditional
         budget demands. Close attention will be needed in the cases of the TB program lead by the CONI
         Institute and the nosocomial infections surveillance system lead by the Jara Institute. Finally, another
         sustainability question mark should be reflected on those activities that generate recurrent costs, even


                                                         19

        minor ones. Maintaining the connectivity of surveillance nodes and sentinel units is the most important
        concern. Here, differences in the capacity and/or willingness of the provincial authorities to assume and
        sustain such costs must be acknowledged. For some provincial authorities, the effects of the crisis are
        still being felt in their fiscal capacity making things more complex.

        However, most of these concerns have been considered and properly addressed by the Borrower and the
        Bank in the already agreed follow-up project focused on essential public health functions. This new
        project will ensure continuity of the health surveillance activities at the national and provincial levels
        (including the monitoring of hospital-acquired infections), further improve critical programs in public
        health (including TB, HIV-AIDS, and health promotion and disease prevention) and advance the
        training and strengthening at the provinces.


10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
       (Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

       10.1     Bank
       (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
       (i.e., performance through lending phase)

        Rating:     SATISFACTORY

        The Bank's performance during the identification, preparation and appraisal of the Project was
        satisfactory. The project identification process correctly focused on critical needs and opportunities for
        improving core public health functions in Argentina and was fully consistent with the CAS. Solid
        technical analysis facilitated by the Bank's previous deep involvement with the country's health sector
        was used to prioritize focus areas and interventions. Project design was done with world-class, state-of-
        the-art expertise, bringing in valuable lessons learned from other countries and incorporating flexibility
        and responsiveness to local needs. In addition, the Bank explicitly acknowledged potential risks and
        worked out mitigating actions (see Section 7.1).

        During preparation and appraisal, the Bank paid attention to all relevant aspects for securing a successful
        implementation. It elaborated and/or reviewed well in advance, with ample stakeholder participation
        and solid technical inputs, all norms and manuals that would be needed during implementation (for
        example, basic and intermediate epidemiology manuals, specific contents for health personnel training,
        and norms, manuals and definitions for TB, nosocomial infections and epidemiological surveillance). A
        similar exercise guaranteed investments in infrastructure and equipment to be focused, narrowed and
        responsive to technical requirements. Terms of reference for contracting trainers at the national and
        provincial levels, as well as those for implementing the subcomponent designed for local participation
        (the demand-driven sub-projects in Component III) were also properly anticipated. Meetings were held
        with other existing Bank-funded projects in the country to secure synergies and coordination.

        The Bank also had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during identification,
        preparation and appraisal.

       (b) Quality of Supervision
       (Including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

         Rating: SATISFACTORY

        The Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. Throughout implementation,


                                                          20

 the Bank permanently expressed its commitment to contributing to the Project's success. Adequate
 resources were allocated for monitoring and supervision. Over the six years of the Project, the Bank
 conducted 16 supervision missions, an average of 2.5 missions per year. Field visits to provinces were
 conducted to get first-hand comments and feedback on progress made. Bank teams for supervision were
 highly professional and competent. They included specialists in public health and disease control, health
 economics, Bank operations, financial management and procurement. High-level consultants were
 brought in to provide support on specific project aspects.

 This close supervision enabled the Bank to provide early advice on key trends that could impact the
 PDOs; for example, on the importance of securing TB medications and on the worrisome trend of
 counterpart funding. During the years of the national crisis, the Bank was able to strengthen its presence
 and mostly respond in a timely way to the Borrower's changing needs and expectations.

 An exception to the above was the Bank's slow internal response to facilitate the implementation of the
 agreed Emergency Plan. This plan was swiftly identified and detailed with technical soundness by the
 Borrower and the Bank. However, the ensuing internal processes in the Bank required to authorize
 purchases and disbursements, most of them dealing with procurement aspects of the new inputs and
 supplies, became excessively burdensome and took much longer than anticipated. This even forced an
 internal review of the situation by the Bank to improve it performance. Communication with the
 Borrower was constant and open.          Aide memoires routinely highlighted outstanding issues and
 agreements on corrective actions. These aide-memoirs alerted the MOH, the PCU and later on the UFI-
 S to problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in conformity with Bank procedures.
 Follow-up was rigorous and credit covenants were effectively enforced. The Project Status Reports
 realistically rated the performance of the Project in terms of achievement of development objectives and
 progress in implementation. For example, during 2001, an unsatisfactory rating flagged difficulties with
 counterpart funds and procurement that were seriously affecting implementation progress and
 threatening the PDOs. This upfront and timely evaluation helped correct the situation.

 Lastly, the relationship with the Borrower was mostly positive and productive, even when frequent
 changes of interlocutors made things difficult. Most relevant, in its ongoing support relationship with
 the Borrower, the Bank showed a high degree of understanding, flexibility and adaptation to the
 unexpected changing environment. This capacity was evident in the support provided to the MOH's
 National Emergency Health Plan and, more recently, to the preparedness efforts for an eventual
 influenza pandemic. The constructive discussion and ensuing collaboration with an enhanced UFI-S is
 another valuable example of responsiveness by the Bank to the Borrower's needs and concerns.
 Likewise, this ongoing positive dialogue facilitated by the VIGI-A Project was decisive for advancing
 the discussions between the Borrower and the Bank leading to a new Bank-financed operation in the
 public health field.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

  Rating: SATISFACTORY

 Based on the above analysis of its role during project preparation and implementation, the overall Bank
 performance in the VIGI-A project is rated as satisfactory. This ICR highlights the Bank's permanent
 commitment during preparation and supervision to bringing in and guaranteeing the highest possible
 quality in all aspects of the Project to secure its success.      A "Highly Satisfactory" rating is not
 considered after taking into account the internal difficulties the Bank encountered in speeding its
 procurement response to support the implementation of the Borrower's Emergency Plan.




                                                21

10.2    Borrower

(a) Government Performance
 Rating:    Not applicable

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

  Rating: Not Applicable

         Implementing Agency                                         Performance
  1. National Ministry of Health                               SATISFACTORY
  (MOH)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

 Rating:    SATISFACTORY

 The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower displayed the
 required level of commitment to project objectives and covered with adequacy all major aspects of
 project design, giving full priority to its preparation and appraisal. Loan effectiveness conditions were
 properly fulfilled in a timely fashion.

 The Borrower's performance during implementation was, overall, also satisfactory. The Borrower's
 commitment with the Project was mostly maintained throughout implementation, even as the national
 crisis unfolded.    The MOH was always responsive to take corrective measures in dealing with
 outstanding operational issues raised by the Bank. Although the expansion of functions of the UFI-S
 originated some initial (and temporary) confusion, the MOH followed the Bank's procurement
 guidelines and demonstrated appropriate levels of review and approval. Financial accountability and
 close follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized. Close communication with the
 Bank was maintained at all times, helping identify obstacles and implement solutions.

 The responsibility for project management was placed in a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) reporting to
 the MOH. The performance of the PCU was, overall, partially satisfactory. The Project's PCU was
 installed in 1999. Its staff was initially recruited based on technical considerations and merits. The PCU
 generally complied within the expected timeframe with products and deliverables agreed in the annual
 operation plans, with procurement and disbursements agreements, and maintained proper records of the
 Project for periodic review. It carried out other usual project management activities including 2 Post
 Procurement Reviews, 1 Independent Procurement Review (IPR) and 5 audits of the Project Financial
 Statements.     These audits provided feedback on the management processes and led to the
 implementation of improvement plans and to the strengthening of internal controls. The PCU was
 mostly receptive to the Bank's advice, willing to discuss and review alternatives when difficulties surged
 and facilitating agreed solutions that preserved the implementation of the Project and its development
 objectives.

 The PCU encountered and had to deal with various challenges during project implementation. The
 severe economic, political and social crisis that affected Argentina between 2001 and 2003 was the main
 one. Reaching proper technical and managerial decisions with and within the Project sometimes became
 an additional issue that had to be addressed jointly between the Borrower and the Bank, including here
 the relation between the PCU and the UFI-S. As stated before, the PCU personnel changed frequently,



                                                   22

        contributing to implementation problems and delays. Such volatility also affected the implementing
        agency. High rotation of staff took place not only at the MOH and the PCU, but also at the provincial
        ministries. This turnover had a negative impact on implementation rhythm and staff morale. It also
        eroded value added by ongoing training activities and consumed time that would later on result essential
        for properly completing implementation.


11. Lessons Learned


        The VIGI-A Project focused on a particular field of public health (disease surveillance and control)
        where not many other similar experiences are available. It was also a project that faced during roughly
        half of its implementation a severe and unexpected national crisis, and had to adapt and respond to it.
        With these two considerations in mind, following are the main lessons identified by this ICR that should
        prove useful for future endeavors:

         Bank supported public health programs can have important systemic effects and provide a resource
        for unforeseen health synergies. The VIGI-A Project, concentrated in disease prevention and control,
        is one of the first projects of its type globally. Its implementation proves the value of a systematic effort
        to enhance specific public health functions and improve the performance of the health sector in middle-
        income countries. In particular, it shows how important and demanding it is to develop a broad capacity
        to conduct disease surveillance and control. This capacity is highly appreciated when unexpected threats
        appear in the public health field; in this case in the form of possible new disease outbreaks or in
        mitigating the adverse health effects of macroeconomic and social crises.

        Sector structures and incentives are core elements for effective project implementation and
        sustainability. The health sector structure has a considerable impact on all project components and, in
        particular, in the incentives for their implementation and sustainability. In the case of the VIGI-A
        Project, the overall federal structure of Argentina's health sector determined to a great extent the relation
        provinces had with project activities, and with their future sustainability. Therefore, such arrangements
        need to be explicitly taken into account in project design, identifying effective instruments to help align
        and secure proper participation by all relevant stakeholders.

        Public health projects showed, it possible, advance institutional development through outreach
        activities to others stakeholders. The Project may have missed an opportunity to further advance
        institutional development in the public health field by not reaching out to other key health sector
        stakeholders. In particular, the social security system and the private health sector remained mostly
        untouched by project activities. This was an explicit decision made during project design, primarily
        because these areas of the health sector do not predominantly care for the poor.                Nonetheless,
        considering that these are core actors in the performance of Argentina's health sector, they will need to
        be engaged in future efforts to further strengthen the public health role in Argentina.

        Proper utilization of data and information to guide policy and decision-making is critical, much more
        in the public health field. However, progressing here requires not only the availability of proper
        instruments and systems in place: it also demands a deeper change in the institutional culture of
        collecting and utilizing information. Achieving this cultural transformation essential for sustaining
        progress made requires time and consistency.

        A smooth and regular implementation pace is critical for facilitating a transition of project processes
        and outputs towards post-completion operation. In the absence of such regular implementation pace,
        activities and expenditures tend to bunch up in the last months of project execution, demanding an



                                                          23

       excessive share of the implementing agency's capacity and preventing it from gradually incorporating
       and/or transferring the financing and technical demands to other stakeholders (in this case, to the
       provinces). This, in turn, may increase the risk of not being able to sustain progress made.

       Selected project indicators must reflect what is under the control of the project, and be as much as
       possible unambiguous to interpret.         Outcomes related to burden of disease require additional
       carefulness, as multi-causality is usually present. For example, TB incidence is an indicator affected by
       many variables outside the Project's control (such as the social and economic crisis that elevated poverty
       levels and deteriorated health service provision) and by others precisely being addressed by the Project
       as it is executed (improved detection and reporting, for example). Interpreting its final performance will,
       hence, be extremely difficult.

       Flexibility by the Bank is critical in order to properly respond to the Borrower, much more amid
       unexpected changes in the country's environment. In order for flexible responses to come in a timely
       and proper fashion, close interaction with and deep understanding of the client, as well as a capacity to
       prioritize, must exist. This was the case in this project, which had to quickly adapt to contribute to the
       national emergency response and, simultaneously, had to be able to preserve its focus in core prioritized
       activities (for example, outbreak research, capacity building and specific disease control programs).

       Recurrent costs, even those that seem minor in magnitude and have no apparent mayor fiscal
       implications, can become a serious threat to sustainability of important outputs and outcomes. This is
       particularly important within federal structures, where provincial authorities may simply resist assuming
       such newly created recurrent costs, giving way to complex political discussions with the central level.

       The need for extending projects is, in itself, a signal of unexpected situations during implementation.
       When these situations are mostly political in nature (for example, high turnover of key staff and
       changing support to the project's objectives), there seems to be a tendency to approve short extensions
       subject to close monitoring of performance. There is a pitfall to this, as brief extensions many times
       hamper appropriate technical planning and implementation. Ideally, sound technical analysis should be
       the main consideration behind the determination of the length of an extension.


12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

      (a)      Borrower/implementing agencies

       The MOH had review the ICR and expressed its general agreement and coincidence with the ICR
       findings. The MOH had prepared its own ICR that is annexed. It was made in Bank format, over a
       background external evaluation financed by the project. See Annex 10 with complete report.

      (b)      Cofinanciers

       Not applicable.

      (c)      Other partners and stakeholders
      (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

       Not applicable.




                                                      24

                                                         ANNEXES



Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document)

   The original objective of the VIGI-A Project was to "strengthen national, provincial, municipal and local
   institutions responsible for public health policy and practice".10 This objective would lead the Project to
   contribute to reduce the disease burden, especially among the poor, a group affected by a higher incidence of
   preventable diseases. To achieve its objective, the Project would focus its efforts in three areas: (i) public
   health surveillance, (ii) disease prevention and control, and (iii) health promotion. Specifically, in each one of
   these areas, the Project would:

       (i)       by strengthening disease surveillance, "improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to
                 make informed decisions about prevention and control priorities and to monitor the impact of
                 interventions";
       (ii)      "strengthen provincial capacity to carry out disease monitoring, control and prevention for
                 several diseases that pose a serious public health threat including tuberculosis, dengue and
                 hospital infections", and
       (iii)     "help to develop a health promotion program focusing on education, social mobilization, and
                 advocacy".11

   The Project identified correctly its key indicators, combining both outcome variables as well as more process-
   oriented, institutional-strengthening targets. All of them were properly aligned with the Project's objectives
   and with its implementation plan. The Project Development Objectives (PDOs), detailed in Annex 1.a,
   included: (i) tuberculosis (TB) incidence decreased by 15 percent; (ii) hospital-acquired infections (also known
   as nosocomial infections) in target hospitals reduced by 20 percent in central catheters, 10 percent in urinary
   tract folleys and 10 percent in mechanical ventilators; (iii) 90 percent of all cases of detected invasive
   meningococcal disease investigated and properly managed; (iv) at least 200 influenza virus per year obtained
   from throat swabs in sentinel sites; (v) public health bulletins issued regularly; (vi) at least six people trained
   on outbreaks investigation; (vii) at least 120 people trained on data for decision making; and (viii) at least 30
   people trained on laboratory safety. A detailed set of output indicators complemented these PDO indicators
   and facilitated monitoring and evaluation throughout project implementation (see Annex 1.b).

Revised Project Development Objective (as approved by original approving authority)

   The original objective of the VIGI-A Project and its PDOs were not revised during project implementation.
   Nonetheless, in 2002, in response to a severe economic, social and political crisis that affected Argentina,
   amendments to the Project's structure and implementation plan were agreed between the Borrower and the
   Bank, allowing the Project to serve as an effective instrument to mitigate the health impact of the ongoing
   crisis. At the same time, the crisis affected in various ways the implementation of the Project. Sections 6.6
   and 6.7 detail further the effects of the crisis, the changes introduced in the Project to respond to the crisis and
   their impact on the achievement of its PDOs.




10Based in the World Bank Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19154; September 24, 1999.
11World Bank Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19154; September 24, 1999.



                                                              25

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Indicator        Baseline Value        Original         Formally Revised Target Values           Actual Values
                                    Target Values                                                   Achieved
Indicator 1:     REDUCTION IN THE TB INCIDENCE RATE
Value            1999: 11,871       15% reduction      n.a.                                     2000:     11,767
(quantitative or cases                                                                          cases
Qualitative)                                                                                    2001: 11,464
                                                                                                2002: 11,545
                                                                                                2003: 12,278
                                                                                                2004: 12,079
                                                                                                2005: 11,242
Date achieved    12/31/1998         12/31/2000         03/15/2006                               09/19/2006
Comments         Partially achieved. There was a small positive impact during the first three years of the
(incl. %         Project. Then, in 2003, the incidence rate increased. Most surely, the national crisis had an
achievement)     impact on this indicator. Nonetheless, diagnosis and treatment rates for TB did improve
                 nationwide (see discussion), and the 2004 ­2005 trend is positive, with an end reduction of 4.5
                 percent.
Indicator 2:     REDUCTION IN NOSOCOMIAL INFECTIONS (catheters, urinary tract Foleys and
                 ventilators)
Value            In 1998:           Reduction of:                           Jan-                  Percentage of
(quantitative or 8.28 in catheters  20% in catheters                         Jun      Jan-Jun     Reduction:
Qualitative)     (CLASBI)           10% in folleys          Type of         2005        2006

                 10.78 in Foleys    10% ventilators        infection        Rate      Rate per

                 (UTI)                                                     per 100      100

                 25.35 in                               Adult
                 ventilators                                CLABSI        20,29                    20,29 %
                 (VAP)                                                    %                        51,76 %
                                                              UTI         51,76                    37,27 %
                                                                          %
                                                             VAP          37,27                    4,59 %
                                                                          %                        35.99 %
                                                        Paediatric
                                                                                                   50.29 %
                                                            CLABSI         4,59 %

                                                              UTI         35.99
                                                                          %
                                                             VAP          50.29
                                                                          %
Date achieved    12/31/1998         12/31/2001         03/15/2006                                 09/19/2006
Comments         * Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP); Central line-associated bloodstream infection
(incl. %         (CLABSI); Catheter-associated urinary tract infection (UTI).
achievement)     Partially achieved. Only 15 hospitals participated in this effort and reported data for 2005.
                 Although their performance exceeds the initial expected targets in terms of infection control,
                 the number of participating hospitals and the length of the intervention fall short from original
                 PDO (see discussion).
Indicator 3      INVASIVE MENINGOCCOCAL INFECTIONS
Value            Not available.     90% of all         n.a.                                     2001: 474 cases
(quantitative or                    detected cases                                              2002: 408


                                                     26

Qualitative)                        investigated and                                         2003: 393
                                    managed                                                  2004: 323
                                                                                             2005: 206
Date achieved    12/31/1998         12/31/2001         03/15/2006                            09/19/2006
Comments         Achieved. Every year, more than 90% of all invasive meningoccocal cases detected (and
(incl. %         reported) were properly investigated and managed. A reduction in the national incidence of the
achievement)     disease is evident.
Indicator 4      INFLUENZA VIRUS
Value            Zero (there was    At least 200       n.a.                                   425 in 2002
(quantitative or no sentinel        viruses per year                                          404 in 2003
Qualitative)     surveillance in    obtained from                                             123 in 2004
                 place).            throat swabs in                                           167 in 2005
                                    sentinel sites

Date achieved    12/31/1998         12/31/2001         03/15/2006                             09/19/2006
Comments         Achieved. The target was surpassed in the initial years but not by the end of the Project,
(incl. %         despite a significant increase in the number of performed throat swabs and the proper
achievement)     functioning of the newly instituted sentinel network. These results suggest a reduction in the
                 presence of the virus and should not be interpreted as a failure of the sentinel activity (see
                 discussion).
Indicator 5:     PUBLIC HEALTH BULLETINS
Value            Zero.              Regular            n.a.                                   35 public health
(quantitative or                    issuance                                                  bulletins issued
Qualitative)                                                                                  (2001-2005);
                                                                                              regular
                                                                                              epidemiologic
                                                                                              bulletins
Date achieved    12/31/1998         12/31/2001         03/15/2006                             09/19/2006
Comments         Achieved. The MOH now produces 13 bulletins annually plus a daily epidemiologic
(incl. %         newsletter; 50% of the provinces issue at least 4 bulletins per year.
achievement)
Indicator 6:     STAFF TRAINED IN OUTBREAK INVESTIGATION
Value            Zero.              At least 6         n.a.                                   13 persons
(quantitative or                    persons with                                              trained in
Qualitative)                        advanced                                                  advance level
                                    training and at                                           (and 14 more
                                    least 72 with                                             undergoing
                                    intermediate                                              training); 110
                                    training                                                  trained in
                                                                                              intermediate
                                                                                              level
Date achieved    12/31/1998         12/31/2001         03/15/2006                             09/19/2006
Comments         Achieved. The total number of trained personnel in outbreak investigation (advanced and
(incl. %         medium levels) was surpassed. The FETP continues training health personnel at the national
achievement)     and provincial levels.
Indicator 7:     STAFF TRAINED IN DATA FOR DECISION-MAKING
Value            Zero.              At least 120       n.a.                                   0
(quantitative or                    persons
Qualitative)



                                                     27

Date achieved     12/31/1998          12/31/2001           03/15/2006                        09/19/2006
Comments          Not achieved. Training in data for decision-making was not carried out due to financial and
(incl. %          political constraints during the crisis years.
achievement)
Indicator 8:      STAFF TRAINED IN LABORATORY SAFETY
Value             Zero.               At least 30          n.a.                              36 persons
(quantitative or                      persons                                                trained in lab
Qualitative)                                                                                 safety and 90 in
                                                                                             lab notification
Date achieved     12/31/1998          12/31/2001           03/15/2006                        09/19/2006
Comments          Achieved. The total number of trained personnel in laboratory safety surpassed its initial
(incl. %          target.
achievement)


Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                         Baseline Value          Original Target      Formally Revised      Actual Values
                                                       Values          Target Values           Achieved
                                                COMPONENT I
Indicator 1:          DETECTION OF INVASIVE MENIGOCOCCAL DISEASE
Value                 - 1.33 cases per         - 0.75 cases per      n.a.                - 1.31 (2001); 1.13
(quantitative or      100,000 pop. in 75% 100,000 pop. in 75%                            (2002); 1.07 (2003);
Qualitative)          of the provinces         of the provinces,                         0.89 (2004) and 0.57
                      - n.a. culture           - 50% culture                             (2005)
                      confirmed                confirmed                                 - 48.8% average
                      - 57.4% isolates         - 90% of isolates                         (2001-2004)
                      sero-grouped             sero-grouped                              - 97% in 2005;
                                                                                         86.6% average
                                                                                         (2001-2005)
Date achieved         12/31/1998               12/31/2001            03/15/2006          09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %     Partially Achieved. The incidence of this disease seems to be dropping.          Culture
achievement)          confirmation almost reached its target while isolation of sero-groups surpassed its,
                      reflecting a stronger surveillance system.
Indicator 2:          CASES OF BACTERIAL MENINGITIS REPORTED
Value                 1.87 (2000)              3 cases reported for  n.a.                - 3.2 (2001), 3.78
(quantitative or                               every case of                             (2002), 3.99 (2003),
Qualitative)                                   meningococcal                             4.0 (2004) and 4.8
                                               disease recognized,                       (2005)
                                               50% culture                               - n.a.
                                               confirmed
Date achieved         12/31/1998               12/31/2001            03/15/2006          09/19/2006
  Comments (incl. % Partially achieved. The cases reported exceeded the initial target, although the indicator
       achievement) was affected by the already discussed reduction in meningococcal disease. There is no
                      specific report on the percentage of confirmations via culture.
Indicator 3:          IDENTIFIED ETIOLOGICAL AGENT IN DIARRHEAL DISEASE
Value                 Zero (there was no       At least in 3% of     n.a.                3,599 cases reported
(quantitative or      sentinel surveillance    stool cultures                            by 15 sentinel units;
Qualitative)          in place).               obtained in sentinel                      1,998 stool cultures



                                                         28

                                            sites                                         performed with 832
                                                                                          positive results
                                                                                          (23.1% of the
                                                                                          cases).
Date achieved      12/31/1998               12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
 Comments (incl. % Achieved. Progress made clearly surpassed the original target.
       achievement)
Indicator 4:       INFLUENZA VIRUSES
Value              Zero (there was no       At least 200 per year n.a.                    - 425 in 2002
(quantitative or   sentinel surveillance    obtained from throat                          - 404 in 2003
Qualitative)       in place).               swabs in influenza                            - 123 in 2004
                                            sentinel sites                                - 167 in 2005
Date achieved      12/31/1998               12/31/2002             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Partially Achieved.      Although the absolute number of influenza virus detected has
achievement)       decreased below the original target in the last two years, the surveillance activity has
                   increased and is maintained. It can be argued that there is less influenza virus circulating,
                   hence affecting the results of the improved surveillance.
Indicator 5:       KEY PERSONNEL TRAINED
Value              Zero.                    - 6 advance and 72     n.a.                   - 13 in advance and
(quantitative or                            medium level in                               110 in intermediate
Qualitative)                                outbreak                                      level;
                                            investigation                                 - 0 in data for
                                            - 96 in data for                              decision-making
                                            decision-making                               - 36 in biosafety
                                            - 24 in lab biosafety                         - 90 in lab reporting
                                            - 22 in lab reporting                         - 0 in management
                                            - 58 in management                            - 36 in bulletins
                                            - 36 in bulletin
                                            development
Date achieved      12/31/1998               12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Partially achieved. The targets in personnel trained were all surpassed except in data for
achievement)       decision-making and management, which had to be cancelled due to fiscal constraints
                   during the crisis (these trainings implied the participation of the CDC).
Indicator 6:       DATA DEFINITIONS AND CODING STANDARDS
Value              n.a.                     Defined and adopted n.a.                      Defined and adopted
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/1998               12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved. Data definitions and coding standards were defined and adopted.
achievement)
Indicator 7:       SENTINEL NETWORK
Value              Zero (there was no       40 sites for           n.a.                   99 sentinel sites for
(quantitative or   sentinel surveillance    communicable                                  communicable
Qualitative)       prior to the Project)    disease and 15 for                            diseases and 50
                                            injuries                                      sentinel sites for
                                                                                          injuries and burns
Date achieved      12/31/1998               12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved. The development of the sentinel network exceeded all initial targets.
achievement)



                                                      29

Indicator 8:       LABORATORY NETWORK UPGRADED
Value              n.a.                    1 lab to BSL-3 and     n.a.                   1 BSL-3 completed
(quantitative or                           61 labs to BSL-2                              and 82 labs
Qualitative)                                                                             upgraded and
                                                                                         equipped to BSL-2
Date achieved      12/31/1998              12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. % Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 9:       SURVEILLANCE BULLETINS
Value              Zero                    80% of provinces       n.a.                   - 50% of provinces
(quantitative or                           with 4 bulletins/year                         have quarterly
Qualitative)                               and central level                             bulletins
                                           with 13/year,                                 - MOH has 13
                                           available                                     bulletins per year
                                           electronically                                available via
                                                                                         internet
Date achieved      12/31/1998              12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. % Partially achieved. Although the target of 80% of the provinces was not reached, progress
achievement)       made in this area is unquestionable.
                                            COMPONENT II
Indicator 10:      DOTS COVERAGE FOR TB
Value              37.4% in 2000           80% (20% increase)     n.a.                    - 57.1% in 2001
(quantitative or                                                                         - 56.7% in 2002
Qualitative)                                                                             - 57.8% in 2003
                                                                                         - 64.1% in 2004
                                                                                         (2005 is pending)
Date achieved      01/01/2000              12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. % Not achieved. Although the 2005 coverage figure is yet pending, everything suggests that
achievement)       the original target was not achieved. Underperformance by the Province of Buenos Aires
                   is a major explanation of this situation.
Indicator 11:      BACTERIOLOGIC CONFIRMATION OF TB PULMONARY CASES
Value              72.5% in 2000           85% (15% increase)     n.a.                   - 72.9% in 2001
(quantitative or                           in people 15 years                            - 74.7% in 2002
Qualitative)                               and older                                     - 74.4% in 2003
                                                                                         - 73.3% in 2004
                                                                                         (2005 is pending)
Date achieved      12/31/1998              12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. % Partially achieved. Although the percentage of bacteriologic confirmation did not reach
achievement)       the target, the inclusion of positive cultures reported would make the figure exceed the
                   initial expectations.
Indicator 12:      SENTINEL NETWORK FOR DENGUE CONTROL
Value              Zero                    52 sites               Dengue surveillance    n.a.
(quantitative or                                                  was moved into
Qualitative)                                                      notifiable disease
                                                                  surveillance
Date achieved      12/31/1998              12/31/2001             03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. % Achieved. The inclusion of dengue under the notifiable disease surveillance (in the form
achievement)       of febrile syndrome) has had positive results in its monitoring and control.
Indicator 13:      PERSONNEL TRAINED IN HOSPITAL INFECTIONS CONTROL


                                                     30

Value              Zero                  300 key personnel       n.a.                   1,032
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/1998            12/31/2001              03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved. The number of personnel trained in hospital infections control exceeded all
achievement)       initial expectations.
Indicator 14:      FIELD WORKERS TRAINED IN TB AND DENGUE CONTROL
Value              Zero                  1,500 field workers     n.a.                   Between the years
(quantitative or                                                                        2000 and 2005,
Qualitative)                                                                            5,008 health
                                                                                        workers were
                                                                                        trained.
Date achieved      12/31/1998            12/31/2000              03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved. Performance in training widely exceeded initial targets.
achievement)
Indicator 15:      HEALTH PROFESSIONALS TRAINED IN EPIDEMIOLOGY AND DIAGNOSTIC
                   TESTING FOR TB AND DENGUE
Value              Zero                  600 health              n.a.                   728 trained staff
(quantitative or                         professionals
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/1998            12/31/2001              03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved.
achievement)
                                         COMPONENT III
Indicator 16:      PERSONNEL TRAINED IN HEALTH PROMOTION UNIT
Value              Zero                  10 in health            n.a.                   Over 145 health
(quantitative or                         communication and                              staff were trained in
Qualitative)                             10 health journalists                          communications and
                                                                                        150 health
                                                                                        journalists in basic
                                                                                        surveillance
Date achieved      12/31/1998            12/31/2001              03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 17:      TOBACCO MEDIA CAMPAIGN
Value              n.a.                  Executed                n.a.                   12 communication
(quantitative or                                                                        campaigns in
Qualitative)                                                                            tobacco control
Date achieved      12/31/1998            12/31/2001              03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved. Efforts done in this component exceeded initial expectations.
achievement)
Indicator 18:      PILOT TOBACCO CONTROL STUDY ON PRIVATE CORPORATION
Value              n.a.                  Executed                n.a.                   Other successful
(quantitative or                                                                        efforts for securing
Qualitative)                                                                            private participation
                                                                                        in tobacco control
Date achieved      12/31/1998            12/31/2001              03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. %  Achieved.     Although the pilot control study was not implemented, the Project did
achievement)       successfully advance other strategies to enhance and secure private sector participation in


                                                   31

                   controlling tobacco consumption. Over 700 private corporations have participated in this
                   purpose.
Indicator 19:      ADVOCACY GROUP
Value              n.a.                  Constituted and     n.a.                   Not existent.
(quantitative or                         active
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/1998            12/31/2001          03/15/2006             09/19/2006
Comments (incl. % Not achieved. This advocacy group for the health promotion component was never
achievement)       conformed.




                                                 32

Annex 2: Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring      Board        ISR Ratings at    Amount        Reason for Restructuring &
  Date(s)        Approved       Restructuring   Disbursed at       Key Changes Made
               PDO Change                       Restructuring
                                DO         IP    in US$m

    Not
 applicable.




                                              33

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                 Components                 Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                                 (USD M)             (USD M)           Appraisal
STRENGTHENING THE PUBLIC HEALTH
                                                        42.20                 22.70           53.79
SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
STRENGTHENING DISEASE CONTROL                           16.40                 29.40          179.27
HEALTH PROMOTION                                         9.70                   5.20          53.61
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                   6.00                   3.90          65.00
STRENGTHENING OF THE MOH'S UFI-S                         0.00                   1.10
                         Total Baseline Cost            74.30                 62.30
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00
                         Total Project Costs            74.30
Front-end fee PPF                                        0.00                   0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                       0.50                   0.50         100.00
                   Total Financing Required             74.80                 62.80




(b) Financing


                                                       Appraisal
            Source of Funds               Type of                     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                        Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                                          M)        Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

 Borrower                                                      0.00               0.00
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                           52.50                0.00
DEVELOPMENT




                                                 34

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            35

Annex 4. Outputs by Component               12



Component I: Strengthening the Public Health Surveillance System.

(i) Review of norms and procedures for surveillance, and standardize case definitions, reporting procedures
and data collection. This activity was a condition for loan effectiveness. Accordingly, it was completed prior to
project implementation. This contributed to the technical soundness of project design and implementation.

(ii) Strengthen human resource capacity at all levels to carry out health surveillance activities. The Project
supported intensive training in disease surveillance at the national and provincial levels. Its two major outputs
were:
     · (a) Strengthening the MOH National Epidemiology Directorate. Early contracting of SINAVE specialists
          secured project articulation with existent capacities in epidemiologic surveillance in the MOH. Later on,
          the planned transfer of 14 high-level trained PCU staff to the MOH complemented this effort. The
          Project also successfully facilitated the transfer of trained trainers in epidemiology in 21 out of the 24
          provinces, and in 11 of the existing 12 regions.13
     · (b) Helping develop a Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP). The FETP, the first program of its
          kind in Argentina, was launched in 2001 with active support from the Project. Its objective was to
          conduct high-level training in field epidemiology. Situations brought by the crisis forced the Project to
          cut short its expected support of the Program. Nonetheless, the MOH sustained the FETP with its own
          resources. This proved to be the right decision, as the Program has proven itself at various levels. In
          terms of capacity building, the FETP has graduated 13 field epidemiology experts and is currently
          training 14 more. All but one of its graduates are involved in relevant public health positions throughout
          the country. In addition, hundreds of health staff were trained in basic epidemiology. This capacity
          building has lead to valuable health outcomes, as demonstrated by field visits to provinces. FETP
          students investigate an average of two to three disease outbreaks monthly and provide support in public
          health emergency situations.14 Sustainability of the FETP is strong, as various provincial authorities have
          expressed their interest in supporting it.15

(iii) Rehabilitate, expand and upgrade the existing laboratory network. This effort was a needed complement to
secure stronger disease surveillance capacity. Preparation of the laboratory network upgrading was properly
done. Thorough studies defined the precise technical specifications each facility required. External assistance
from VIGISUS Project experts was facilitated. Early coordination with the national agency responsible for the
laboratory network (the ANLIS) was not smooth and, with the crisis, procurement difficulties arose due to severe
fiscal constraints, currency devaluation and technical complexities of some of the bids. Nonetheless, and after a
project extension needed in order to complete the upgrading of the level III laboratory, the Project has contributed
successfully to improve the bio-security of the national laboratory network of Argentina by effectively upgrading
and/or equipping 82 level II labs. The level III facility has been successfully concluded.

(iv) Improve the quality of the existing health data telecommunications, including the development of an
internet-based network for data transfer and storage. This demanding effort sought to modernize and strengthen
the existing National Health Surveillance System as the backbone for disease surveillance and control. This bet

12Outputs for each component are organized following the structure of sub-components as defined in the PAD and corresponding Legal
Agreement.
13Staff transfer was not completed in the provinces of Rio Negro, Santa Fe and La Pampa, and in the region of Buenos Aires.
14Investigations were conducted to confront risk situations and/or outbreaks in conditions such as yellow fever, hepatitis, hanta virus,
measles, leishmaniasis, dengue, meningitis, respiratory diseases, cancer, and food intoxications. Support was provided in cases of flooding.
15Participating provinces have expressed their interest by securing the return of trained staff to their health institutions. Simultaneously,
the Province of Entre Rios has begun a FETP-like provincial program (2004), an initiative to be followed soon by the Province of Buenos
Aires.



                                                                    36

included the challenge not only of introducing more modern and robust system designs and instruments, but
changing the culture behind epidemiological data utilization throughout Argentina's federal health structure. The
development of the new surveillance system embraced the design of the information system, the development of
information technology (software and connectivity) and efforts to strengthen information management. The
System included online (via internet) software enabling horizontal participation and offline analysis instruments.
It covered four subsystems: (i) mandatory disease notification (known as C2), (ii) the laboratory network (known
as SIVILA), (iii) diseases subject to sentinel surveillance, and (iv) special programs, including immunizations and
TB. Following is a brief description of achievements in the first two of these subsystems; progress made in the
other two subsystems is further discussed below.
     · C2. The Project helped create and equip 615 public nodes for mandatory disease notification; 457 of
         these (74 percent) are connected. In addition, over 1,000 health personnel were trained in mandatory
         disease notification.
     · SIVILA. Before the VIGI-A Project, there were fragmented surveillance networks each one focusing on
         individual diseases. Now, there is a network of 414 surveillance nodes properly equipped and integrated,
         articulated with upgraded provincial and national laboratories, and focused on tracking prioritized
         diseases. Connectivity of these nodes remains as the most serious challenge, as only 27 percent of them
         are fully connected.

Sustainability of the National Health Surveillance System was a permanent concern of both the Borrower and the
Bank. A major step taken in this regard was the transfer of the System, initially incubated in the PCU, to the
MOH National Epidemiology Directorate after the mid-term review and after political stabilization had occurred.
This step proved crucial. Connectivity difficulties do remain as the principle bottleneck for further improvement
and consolidation of the surveillance system. Maintaining node connectivity has become a recurrent cost that not
all provinces seem willing to assume.

(v) Implement alternative surveillance methods (such as sentinel networks) and reduce the number of
conditions under surveillance. The VIGI-A Project expanded the number of sentinel sites in the country beyond
expected targets. In total, it helped install 203 sentinel units distributed throughout all provinces (see table
below).    Most units are in public hospitals.     These sentinel networks have helped improve the timing of
epidemiologic data reporting and of the ensuing responses.            Their importance goes beyond their current
utilization: for example, these sentinel sites were instrumental in dealing with the threat of a Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic in 2004. Likewise, they are now pivotal in the GOA's strategy to
confront the threat of an avian influenza outbreak.

                           Development of a Sentinel Network for Selected Conditions
                               CONDITION                  Expected          Achieved
                                                          Sentinel           Sentinel
                                                            Units             Units
                                 Hepatitis                                      23
                                 Influenza                                      18
                                 Pneumonia                    40                17
                                  Diarrea                                       19
                             Hemolytic Uremic                                   22
                                 Syndrome
                           Nosocomial Infections             n.a.               54
                             Injuries and Burns               15                50
                                  TOTAL                       45               203
                          Data source: PCU.

A solid effort stands behind these achievements. Based on experts' consensus, guidelines were prepared for each



                                                         37

condition to be monitored. Coordination with already existent sites under the supervision of the ANLIS was
secured through the early conformation of an Executive Technical Committee ANLIS-VIGI-A. This committee
worked for two years and was abolished once strong integration with the MOH had been reached. Laboratory,
clinical and epidemiological training in the selected conditions was also provided. Surveillance software was
developed, and hardware and connectivity were initially provided by the Project. Proper technical decisions were
made as needed: for example, dengue surveillance was changed to febrile syndrome in 2002 and later on moved
to notifiable disease surveillance; meningitis was also moved out, and diarrhea was separated from Hemolytic
Uremic Syndrome.

(vi) Evaluate the technical and economic aspects of the surveillance system; (vii) finance operational research
in epidemiological surveillance; and (viii) evaluate the effectiveness and relevance of training activities
supported by the Project. In order to advance in these objectives, the Project developed and implemented an
evaluation instrument of the training activities. Likewise, it carried out in-depth assessments of the surveillance
system in each province. Inputs from these evaluation helped better focus interventions and support by the
Project.

Epidemiological Bulletins. Lastly, the Project contributed to the issuance of regular epidemiologic bulletins to
support public health surveillance throughout the country. The defined target for the central level -13 bulletins
per year- has been achieved via monthly electronic bulletins. Over 50 percent of the provinces now also have
quarterly epidemiologic bulletins. To complement this effort, 24 "Situation Analysis Rooms" for monitoring
specific public health conditions at the local and provincial levels were created.

Component II: Strengthening Disease Control.

(i) Tuberculosis control in 10 provinces (selected due to the highest incidence and multi-resistance to therapy)
and the Metropolitan Area of the City of Buenos Aires. During project preparation, a training plan for TB
control and treatment, including norms and contents for implementing the DOTS, was prepared. Over 700 health
centers were reached with this training throughout implementation. To complement this effort, the laboratory
network was upgraded. As a result, positive smear cases increased to 78 percent. DOTS treatment also
improved, although not to the expected levels: it was at 60.5 percent prior to the midterm review (compared to a
target of 65 percent).

The national crisis had a dual effect on this sub-component. On one hand, it made progress more difficult, as
poverty levels across the country increased, basic health services deteriorated and access to medications became
more difficult. TB incidence initially decreased from 34.0 per 100,000 people in 1999 to 30.5 in 2002, but then
increased to 32.0 in 2003. On the other, as this situation was quickly recognized by the Borrower and the Bank,
decisions protecting key expenditures were taken. Treatment with DOTS increased in 2003 thanks to the
emergency response facilitated by the Project, going from a baseline of 37.4 percent (in 2000) to 64.1 percent in
2004, improving the odds of TB patients being cured although yet below the 80 percent initial coverage target.
As a result, the 2004 incidence rate decreased to 31.1 per 100,000 people, a level yet higher than that prior to the
crisis. Figures for 2005 showed again a decrease in the rate, now at 29.1 per 100,000, ratifying a positive trend.

Sustainability of TB control efforts must be considered. Prior to the Project, there had been serious difficulties in
securing proper financing for TB medications. The Project and the ensuing health emergency response helped
overcome this deficit temporarily. Given that a specialized public hospital is the leading implementing agency for
TB control (the CONI Hospital in the city of Santa Fe), there is a real risk that overall budgetary limitations and
constraints in it may hamper the Program.

(ii) Dengue control in high-risk populations through 52 sentinel sites. The Project helped prepare a national
guide and define a detailed action plan at the municipal level to confront dengue. Intense training activities in
diagnosis and treatment were financed. The laboratory system was upgraded to support proper detection and the


                                                         38

sentinel surveillance system was put in place. Based on technical grounds, dengue surveillance was changed to
febrile syndrome and then moved to notifiable disease surveillance. So far, there have been no new cases in the
country.

(iii) Hospital-acquired (nosocomial) infections. Initial targets envisioned the participation of 100 randomly
selected hospitals (80 public and 20 private) in the control of nosocomial infections. However, there was a major
delay in initiating this activity. In 2004, the implementation of a surveillance system for nosocomial infections
finally began using a software previously developed by the Jara Institute and piloted successfully in several public
hospitals. As of today, there are 74 participating sentinel units in nosocomial infections, 60 of them fully
functional and the remaining 14 yet not connected. A specific evaluation of this activity made by a CDC expert
during the time of this ICR ratifies progress made. For example, some of these participating hospitals did not
have infection control committees before joining this surveillance effort. Most are using the findings from the
surveillance system to focus prevention activities and report positive progress. Maintaining funding levels for
training and technical assistance, software upgrades and equipment renewal may be a major challenge for
sustaining this effort. The absence of recognition or incentives for personnel and institutions participating in this
program, completely voluntary so far, adds to this challenge.

(iv) Control of emergent and re-emergent diseases that could appear during the Project's cycle. The Project
was successful in providing technical and operational support to confront eventual emerging diseases and
epidemics. The FETP was instrumental in confronting numerous outbreak threats at the local and provincial
levels. The enhanced surveillance network (in particular, the sentinel sites) became the basis to support the
monitoring and control of unexpected new conditions, such as the SARS and the avian flu threats.

The National Health Emergency Plan.           Finally, Component II effectively supported the National Health
Emergency Plan lead by the MOH to confront the health effects of the ongoing national crisis.

Component III: Health Promotion.

(i) Strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOH Health Promotion Unit.                 As with the National
Epidemiology Directorate, the Project supported the MOH Health Promotion Unit with training, equipment and
facility upgrading. Early changes in the PCU did, however, affect the leadership in and development of this
component. The lack of a strong counterpart in the MOH in these early stages added to a slow start. Discussions
over the health promotion area evidenced the lack of agreement on a national health promotion plan.

(ii) Train MOH and health promotion personnel in media and communications, and train health journalists in
the areas of disease surveillance and control. The Project supported the training of journalists, MOH staff and
health sector managers in health promotion and health communication aspects. This activity started early on in
the Project's cycle and then had to be postponed until late 2003 due to the crisis. Nonetheless, more than 50
workshops and seminars with over 4,300 attendants were done; 164 journalists involved with the health sector
participated and 70 MOH staff were trained in health communications. Other communication initiatives were
also noticeable along the Project's life. The VIGI-A Project supported the publishing of regular public health
bulletins at the national and provincial levels (see Component I), the creation of a web page focused on tobacco-
control (within the official MOH's page, at www.msal.gov.ar) and the implementation of specific campaigns in
areas such as HIV-AIDS and tobacco. As a result of the latter, the number of health-related articles in the national
media significantly increased.

(iii) Support subprojects in disease prevention and health promotion to be implemented by local institutions
and community groups. This strategy sought to promote local participation in disease prevention and health
promotion. For its implementation, an eligibility and guiding manual was agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower, and a specific financing fund was created (Fondos Competitivos para Investigaciones Operativas).



                                                         39

There were two types of local subprojects: (i) local intervention projects and (ii) research projects.             For
intervention projects, four call for proposals were made (2002, 2003, and two in 2004). These calls covered areas
such as health and environment, alcohol abuse, tobacco consumption, injuries, and reproductive and sexual health.
Research projects were initially also opened to many health topics. After the mid-term review, the Project worked
with the MOH's research commission to focus on projects that were in line with both MOH and Project priorities,
and supported larger research grants. Included here were projects focused on tobacco control, cardiovascular
diseases, injury prevention, alcohol abuse, and reproductive and sexual health. This decision leads to better
results in terms of the quality and impact of these local initiatives. Subprojects came from local institutions of
different nature all over the country, including NGOs, universities and municipalities. Average financing sizes
were usually below US$5,000 per initiative. In total, 94 health promotion projects were concluded (representing
96 percent of all approved initiatives), benefiting an estimated population of approximately 315,000 people.

The MOH evaluates these efforts positively, given their contribution to enhance local (community) participation
in health promotion.     Achievements include strengthened local capacity, enhanced civil society and local
authorities networking, incorporation of national and provincial health priorities into local agendas, and
generation of inputs and ideas for public policy at the provincial and even national levels. For example, concern
for sodium contents in food, concrete ideas on how to secure smoke-free spaces, tobacco-control initiatives in
schools and the evaluation of the effectiveness of the "Quit and Win" anti-tobacco strategy (endorsed by the
WHO) are examples of valuable initiatives that emerged thanks to the local support provided by the VIGI-A
Project.   The Project also promoted the implementation of the "Healthy Municipalities and Communities
Strategy" lead by the MOH. This initiative initially brought together 12 municipalities. Now, the network has
expanded to more than 140 localities working together in health promotion.

A systematic and comprehensive evaluation of this initiative is missing and represents a major challenge. It was
not clear since the beginning if the objective of this activity was to strengthen local institutional capacity, support
successful (effective) local subprojects in health promotion, or both. Managerial difficulties were present and
included weak reporting processes, significant demand on the central level for technical assistance and
administrative follow-up, and difficulties inherent with the subprojects (for example, absence of economies of
scale and insufficient timeframes). Lastly, there is the sustainability question: will these funds be sustained? The
MOH through its research commission, provinces and local authorities seem interested in doing so, although no
gradual transition strategy was anticipated here.

(iv) Disseminate the project objectives and activities through regular newsletters, workshops, conferences and
technical meetings targeting different stakeholders. According to its design, dissemination of project activities
was to be a permanent effort throughout implementation. It started so early on, with various conferences
conducted in provinces to stimulate participation. However, the crisis and the turnover of staff later on hampered
this plan. The Project would have benefited from expanding its communication efforts to a wider range of
stakeholders, in particular to the academic and the private sectors.

(v) Support meetings with political and social leaders that could ensure the sustainability of the Project.
Before the crisis unfolded there were two highly successful health promotion meetings with a wide range of actors
(academics, NGOs, public officials, etc.). A National Plan for Health Promotion was approved. Unfortunately,
this plan was later on rejected by the MOH. Following, other successful meetings were held, now limited to the
tobacco control area. The idea of a National Commission for Health Promotion did not advance.

(vi) Implement a media campaign against tobacco addiction based on the results of a risk factors survey. The
original sequence of this activity ­a risk factors survey to be followed by a campaign against tobacco­ was
modified. The risk factors survey (Encuesta Nacional de Factores de Riesgo), envisioned to take place in 2002,
was delayed until 2005 due to budgetary and procurement constraints. Its results, made public in 2006, will serve
as inputs for guiding health promotion and disease prevention policies in the country.



                                                          40

Meanwhile, with explicit interest and active leadership from the MOH, activities focusing on tobacco control
significantly advanced, especially once the crisis was resolved. Efforts supported by the Project covered both (a)
tobacco consumption surveillance and (b) tobacco cessation.
    · (a) Tobacco consumption surveillance was a major project effort. A Youth Tobacco Survey, followed by
        a second tobacco survey in large cities (2004), served as baseline for other activities. Included here were:
        (i) unifying various instruments being used by different official institutions to track tobacco consumption,
        allowing for comparison and follow-up of results, (ii) support of locally-initiated subprojects, (iii) an
        analysis of the health costs resulting from this addiction, and (iv) studies on the morbidity and mortality
        associated with tobacco consumption.
    · (b) Tobacco consumption cessation was a second major focus of interest. With ample support from
        scientific and medical associations, national guidelines for tobacco cessation were prepared and
        disseminated. Efforts on school health, including training materials on healthy lifestyles for teachers,
        emphasized the importance of reducing smoking initiation. Health care professionals were trained on
        how to advice and treat tobacco addiction (this followed evidence that showed their lack of knowledge
        and training in this area). Communication efforts were done jointly with the Argentine Anti-Tobacco
        Union (Union Anti Tabaquica Argentina, UATA) and the national media. Medical schools were also
        involved. Specific instruments to support cessation were developed and/or supported, including a web
        page, a toll-free assistance number (using MOH infrastructure and logistics), the "Quit and Win" game, a
        network of smoke-free institutions and a "sports free-of-tobacco" initiative. The reactivation of the
        National Anti-Tobacco Commission, a regional study comparing the legislative framework on tobacco
        control in five neighboring countries, and technical assistance to local and provincial activities
        complemented this effort.      Finally, the country's adherence to the WHO tobacco control initiative
        ("convenio marco") and a comprehensive National Law for Tobacco Control signed by the President are
        major national steps in this area, both waiting for Congress approval.

(vii) Advance a plan to include private corporations in a partnership with the MOH to combat tobacco
addiction in the workplace. The Project successfully worked with the private sector to combat tobacco addiction
in the workplace. A certification campaign for smoke-free companies was launched, strengthened by the MOH
who gave example by becoming a smoke-free certified public facility.              Since then, roughly 600 private
organizations have asked for certification visits by the MOH.

How strong is the sustainability of these efforts? The answer to this question has at least two dimensions: (i)
continuity within the MOH, and (ii) ongoing participation by third parties, such as provinces, the private sector
and social security institutions. On the former, the MOH has already demonstrated publicly its leadership and
commitment in confronting tobacco addiction. A National Tobacco Program has been defined and approved.
Trained staff and instruments developed by the Project are being absorbed by the MOH. On the latter, attempts
have been made to include financing of cessation treatments through the social security system. In the meantime,
individual provinces and some insurers are advancing, for example adopting a registry of smoke-free companies
and conducting certification visits.




                                                         41

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

An ex-ante economic cost-benefit analysis was carried out during project appraisal that estimated that the Internal
Economic Rate of Return (IRR) for the disease control component of the VIGI-A Project was 63 percent. If we
assumed that the rest of the Project produces nothing of value beyond the benefits of the disease control
component (at a total cost of US$75 million), the internal rate of return would be 15 percent.

During the preparation of this ICR, an ex post evaluation was carried out in order to evaluate the economic
viability of the Project. The economic analysis focused on the benefits derived from the decrease in the incidence
of tuberculosis (TB) and hospital-acquired infections. The evaluation included a "human capital approach" to the
original methodology (essentially, costs of hospitalization).

In the case of tuberculosis, an important reduction in the incidence rate was achieved during the Project's
execution, from 32.3 cases per 100,000 habitants in the year 2000 to a preliminary figure of 29.1 in 2005,
preventing 5,665 new infections. The number of deaths by TB decreased from 829, at the start of the Project, to
706 in 2004 according to Vital Statistics Reports from the MOH (the 2005 preliminary estimate is 630). This
improvement in the TB morbidity and mortality rates implies important benefits in terms of savings in hospital
costs and in greater labor productivity.

                                   Health Impact, Costs and Estimated Benefits
                                                                                 Hospital-
                                                                    TB           Acquired           Total
                                                                                Infections
                                           Health Impact (number of cases)
              TB infections prevented (2001 - 2005)                   5,665
              TB deaths prevented (2001-2005)                            761                             761
              TB YLL saved (2001-2005)                               12,944                           12,944
              Hospital-acquired infections prevented
              (2004-2005)                                                             72,605          72,605

                                           Economic Benefits (US$, 2005)
              With appraisal methodology
              (hospitalization costs saved)                      8,368,965        57,366,977     65,735,943

              With human capital approach                      29,956,231                        29,956,231
              Total Benefits                                   38,325,196         57,366,977 95,692,174

                                               Project Costs (US$, 2005)

              Bank Financing                                                                     52,500,000
              Government Financing                                                               10,400,000
              Total Costs                                                                        62,900,000
              Notes: table constructed based on data from the National Program for Tuberculosis Control,
              Hospital-Acquired Infections Surveillance Program, National Survey for Base-line Hospital
              Infections, Outgoings of Official Establishments according to selected variables ­year 2000­
              Ministry of Health and Vital Statistics 2004 ­ Ministry of Health.

The number of hospital-acquired infections was also reduced as a consequence of project implementation.
According to Argentina's National Survey of Base-line Hospital Infections (ENPIHA 2004 and 2005), the number
of hospital infections, adjusted by the number of inpatient days, in the 74 hospitals that participated in the


                                                             42

Surveillance Program for Hospital Infections (VIHDA) supported by the VIGI-A Project decreased from 21
percent to 14.5 percent. This outcome generated important benefits in terms of the reduction of hospital costs.
The estimated costs, benefits and data reference are shown in the table.

In summary, considering only these two project activities alone (TB incidence reduction and control of hospital-
acquired infections), the benefits of the Project far exceed its total costs.




                                                          43

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members


          Names                     Title                 Unit          Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Anabela Abreu            Sector Manager           SASHD                Task Manager
Marcelo Becerra           Education Spec.         AFTH3                Operations Officer
                         Financial Management
Antonio Leonardo Blasco                           LCSFM
                         Specialis
Ariel Fiszbein           Adviser                  DECVP                Country Sector Leader
Marian A. Kaminskis      Temporary                SASHD                Program Assistant
Natalia Moncada          Team Assistant           LCSHH
Mariana Margarita Montiel Sr Counsel              LEGLA                Legal Counsel
Supervision/ICR
Gaston Mariano Blanco    Operations Officer       LCSHS-DPT
Isabella Anna Danel      Sr Public Health Spec.   SASHD                Task Manager
Maria Lucy Giraldo        Sr Procurement Spec.    LCSPT
Jesko S. Hentschel       Country Sector Leader    LCSHD
Fernando Lavadenz        Sr Health Spec.          LCSHH
Fernando Montenegro
                         Consultant               LCSHH
Torres
Luis Orlando Perez       Sr Public Health Spec.   LCSHH                ICR Task Manager
Juan Pablo Uribe         Sr Health Spec.          LCSHH                Consultant
Martha P. Vargas         Temporary                LCSHD




                                                44

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.    Date ISR Archived           DO              IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   12/17/1999                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                0.00
2   06/14/2000                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                0.00
3   11/01/2000                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                0.00
4   06/04/2001                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                3.93
5   12/04/2001                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                5.68
6   06/13/2002                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                                6.71
7   12/17/2002                Satisfactory  Satisfactory                               21.27
8   06/09/2003                Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                             24.60
9   12/30/2003                Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory                             33.62
10 05/24/2004                 Satisfactory  Satisfactory                               33.62
11 07/19/2004                 Satisfactory  Satisfactory                               33.62
12 12/16/2004                 Satisfactory  Satisfactory                               42.09
13 04/28/2005                 Satisfactory  Satisfactory                               43.23
14 04/04/2006                 Satisfactory  Satisfactory                               51.35




                                               45

(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

                Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending
                        FY98                                                             46.12
                        FY99                                                           132.60
                        FY00                                      20                     47.63
                        FY01                                                              0.00
                        FY02                                                              0.00
                        FY03                                                              0.00
                        FY04                                                              0.00
                        FY05                                                              0.00
                        FY06                                                              0.00
                        FY07                                                              0.00
                                         Total:                   20                   226.35
Supervision/ICR
                        FY98                                                              0.00
                        FY99                                                              0.72
                        FY00                                       1                      2.78
                        FY01                                       7                     58.78
                        FY02                                      10                     66.03
                        FY03                                      16                     74.55
                        FY04                                      22                     90.88
                        FY05                                      16                     81.24
                        FY06                                      19                     61.65
                        FY07                                       1                      2.68
                                         Total:                   92                   439.31




                                             46

Annex 7. Detailed ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


           Bank                      Ratings               Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at Entry: Satisfactory            Government:
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory                                Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                               Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:




                                                 47

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not applicable.




                                               48

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

 Not applicable.




                                               49

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(Translated from the official version in Spanish sent by the Borrower. Document Annexes can be found in Project
file)

A. Project Data

Date of the Report: September 19, 2006
Name: Final Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Surveillance and Disease Control Project (/­UNDP ARG
98/003)
Country/Department: Argentina
Sector/Subsector: Ministry of Health of the Nation

B. Principal Performance Ratings

Outcome: Highly satisfactory
Sustainability: Satisfactory
Institutional Development Impact: Highly satisfactory
Bank Performance: Satisfactory
Borrower Performance: Satisfactory

C. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

In general it is considered that the design of the Program was adequate since it responded to the need to develop a
National Health Surveillance System, Strengthen the National Programs for Disease Control, develop a Health
Promotion strategy and promote community participation.

At the time of its conception, there were gaps or shortcomings and some incipient developments in the areas of
responsibility of the VIGI-A Program, both at the national and the jurisdictional and local levels.

At the beginning of the Program certain important aspects were not considered, however, they were incorporated
during implementation of the Program such as those concerning AIDS, Safe Blood, Vaccine-preventable
Diseases, and Production of Laboratory Reagents.

The Project was carried out during a great economic and social crisis that required the reassignment of funds to
deal with a sanitary emergency. An amendment to the loan agreement made it possible to reassign 48% of the
initial funds to the emergency. At the same time, the financial capacity of the Project was increased for local
operations because of the currency devaluation. Despite this the pre-established goals were not adapted, especially
those sanitary aspects related with the crisis as is the case of the indicators linked to TB.

It is considered that the execution of project activities through an ad hoc Executing Unit, involves the risk of
generating parallel structures with high financial capacity and the need for developing, a posteriori, active
strategies of institutional integration that could be avoided with a design that includes the participation of the
same from the start. Furthermore, consideration should have been given to the professional quality of the
consultants for their contracting independently from their sectoral, public, or private background.




                                                           50

D. Achievements of Objective and Development Outputs

Components 1 and 2

Construction of National Networks

One of the greatest achievements has been the strengthening of the capability of the State to create an articulated
Health Surveillance National System. The latter was strengthened through the installation of computer equipment,
with loadable software developed by its consultants. The system was adjusted based on the needs and proposals of
the jurisdictions, as in the case of the nodes corresponding to mandatory reportable diseases, and has broad
territorial coverage throughout the country.

Furthermore, Sentinel Units (SU) were installed for Surveillance of Communicable Diseases and of Injuries due
to External Causes, significantly exceeding the initially established goals.
A Program for the Surveillance and Control of Hospital-acquired Infections was also developed with 70 Sentinel
Units in public and private institutions in 21 jurisdictions. In all cases, these actions were accompanied with a
strong training component.

A Laboratories Surveillance System was developed that is in the pilot stage. The computer equipment have been
transferred, the software developed, and the personnel of the jurisdictions has been trained. Laboratory equipment
was also distributed, for example, 82 GBS type II, to strengthen the installed capacity of the provinces.

To strengthen the capacity of the ANLIS (National Administration of Laboratories and Health Institutions), the
first level-III LBS in Argentina was established. The latter will be at the service of all the institutes that comprise
it, strengthening the reference role of the same for the laboratory networks spread throughout the entire national
territory. This investment demanded an important portion of program resources and provided an answer to a
recognized need to update the existing infrastructure. Its functionality and management modality are designed to
serve the requirements of all the ANLIS institutes and laboratories, thus increasing the capacities of the system as
a whole.

Goods of a diverse nature were acquired and transferred to the provinces and to the National Ministry of Health:
computer equipment (CPU, printers, monitors, software licenses, webcams, digital cameras, notebooks). Office
equipment (furniture, work stations, chairs, projectors, libraries, heaters, air conditioning units). Equipment for
the National Blood Plan (freezers, refrigerators), as well as equipment for the first Public Bank of Umbilical Cord
Cells created in the National Pediatrics Hospital Dr. Juan P. Garrahan.

The analysis of the Matrix of Indicators for the monitoring of the program (Annex I), describes the achievements
accomplished with regard to the parameters of success established at entry and, especially, those reviewed in the
mid-term. Fourteen (70%) of the 20 indicators established for these components met or surpassed the targets. An
explanation should be given for those components in which the targets were not met: one partially achieved its
target but shows a trend toward growth of the activity (jurisdictional bulletins); another indicator was discarded to
modify the strategy to address the subject (dengue SU). In two cases there is sufficient background to justify their
situation (reduction in the incidence of meningococcal disease and the high cost of carrying out training with the
help of external consultants). The other two negative indicators refer to achievements in terms of TB control
where the external variables affecting the potential for compliance were, to a great extent, outside the control of
the Program.

Another achievement of the VIGI-A was the broad participation of provincial health teams and hospital general
hospitals in the selection of the location of the nodes and SUs, responding to criteria previously agreed upon
among which greater weight was given to socio-demographic factors and those related to managerial capacity. On



                                                         51

this point, the willingness of some provinces to expand the territorial coverage of the SUs and the nodes under
them should also be emphasized.

The program promoted the establishment of interdisciplinary surveillance and prevention teams and an
intersectoral approach in the health systems, especially at the level of the bureaus and/or provincial departments.


Strengthening of the National Level

At the conclusion of the VIGI-A Program the epidemiological surveillance and disease control functions are
strengthened. The Bureau of Epidemiology currently performs its normative and steering role of the National
Health Surveillance System. Its activities show an improved and renewed performance in its components related
to epidemiological surveillance, health situation monitoring and analysis and intervention in epidemic outbreaks,
facilitated by the activities financed and carried out by the VIGI-A program in recent years.
New surveillance strategies were implemented for certain selected events, such as the sentinel units for Influenza,
Hospital-acquired Infections, Diarrheal Diseases, Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome, Viral Hepatitis and Pneumonia.

Furthermore, advances were made on the surveillance of non-communicable diseases, especially the Injuries
Surveillance System (SIVILE, in Spanish), the Registries of population-based Tumors, and advances in the
Diabetes Surveillance System.

The human resources training process related to health surveillance has strengthened the whole system. There is
better coverage of the surveillance system and an increase in the capture, representativeness and availability of
information. The transfer of periodic information has been regulated. An increase can be observed in the hierarchy
and revaluation of the epidemiological discipline.

From the standpoint of the assignment of budgetary resources, the strengthening of the surveillance and control
functions is evident. From the analysis of comparative accrued expense of Program 20 between 2001 and 2005
and taking into account the 2006 budget, an increase of 600% in current pesos is observed, while if compared
against the evolution of the US dollar (since many of the inputs are valued in that currency), the budget has almost
doubled (75%).

With regard to the ANLIS, the SU strategy was strengthened, together with the strengthening of the laboratories
networks linked to the different lines. Equipment repairs and acquisitions were carried out in some laboratories
for which ANLIS is responsible.

The VIGI-A Program provided resources that facilitated a substantive increase of the training activities carried out
by ANLIS personnel.
In the provinces a change was made in the organizational model with greater articulation between the area of
epidemiology and the laboratories, as well as an increase in the installed capacity of the network.

Strengthening of the Provincial Surveillance and Disease Control Structures

In the selection process for the location of the nodes, the objective of guaranteeing a broad territorial and
population coverage prevailed.
Three basic criteria were used for the installation of the Sentinel Units: interest on the part of the health
establishments and the professionals, concentration of health care services production, and prior experience in the
subject of interest.




                                                           52

The training of trainers in all the provinces allowed large scale replication of the same. In the provinces the
training received is highly valued --in quantity, variety and quality-- as well as the response obtained regarding
specific demands.

Computer equipment arrived in the provinces in time and form and was distributed in accordance with the
selection made by the authorities. On the other hand, several jurisdictions have experienced problems with
connectivity issues, in general due to the patterns of the existing supply and the difficulties derived from the
contracting process. In some cases, the provinces or some of their agencies have taken over the same. The
equipment is being used for the established purposes.

In the opinion of users, the software is user friendly and has been incorporated without difficulties.

The majority of the jurisdictions adopted the SNVS as the only system and a few in parallel with the previous
system. In general the decentralization process of the load and a reduction of reporting delays were consolidated.

At the hospital level, the relationship between deep-rooted epidemiological surveillance practices and the
relatively successful installation of the SNVS and the Sentinel Units stands out. In the totality of the general
hospitals where they were installed, the commitment of the health team personnel has been pointed out as a
central factor in making its sustainability possible. On the contrary, where the activities have been delegated to
non-sensitized actors, to people with little training, or have been imposed as workloads, complementary activities,
or "punishment", the quality of the system has declined.

For health establishments, being integrated in the VIGI-A provided an opportunity to achieve visibility and
prominence. There is agreement that the program offered interesting incentives for this: physical resources,
training of human resources, integration into communication and exchange opportunities among general hospitals
and among provinces, direct connection with the program's national authorities, the possibility of visualizing and
putting into perspective their own data and of preparing presentations, reports, primers, and grand rounds in which
to analyze them.

Another important point highlighted from the perspective of the general hospitals is the high value of teamwork,
understood as collective "learning" inherent in the practices installed by the VIGI-A.

Incidence in the previous provincial systems:

The External Evaluation Report (Annex II) indicates that there is a widespread perception that the SNVS has
achieved concrete and very valuable objectives and that now is just a matter of continuing in the road initiated by
the VIGI-A Program. Some of the points that should be emphasized are the substantive improvements in the
workload and in reducing reporting delays, improvements in the quality and possibility of analysis, awareness of
the actors involved in the process, and integration into a national public policy process that strengthens the links
between the Nation and the Provinces.

One of the most significant uses of the SNVS has been in the detection and monitoring of outbreaks. The
usefulness of the system to generate early alarms is evaluated as adequate and, thus, in helping to organize more
effective intervention strategies.

One other achievement of the VIGI-A has been the generation of communication and exchange opportunities
between the provinces and the national level, among the provinces themselves, and within these. In particular, the
program not only made possible the sustained exchange and training in the different jurisdictions but expanded
the repertory of communication means socializing the use of unknown or little used up to that time computer tools
by provincial management teams (for example, teleconferences, chats, or E-mail).



                                                           53

The program promoted a cultural change in surveillance problems helping to bring forth the subject on the public
agenda and in the government agenda.


Component 3
Institution building of Health Promotion:

The development objective proposed the implementation of a health promotion program focusing on education,
social mobilization, and incidence activities in the public agenda. Taking into account the seven specific
objectives through which that general objective should be met, the activities carried out by the component have
resulted in the achievement of all of them, with greater reach in the area of tobacco control:

Objective i. Strengthening of the Health Promotion Bureau was achieved through the refurbishment of the
infrastructure (9th floor offices) and equipment, as well as training in the use of computer tools and specific health
promotion subjects.

Objective ii. Training courses in mass communication were also conducted for the staff of the different
departments of the National Ministry of Health and of the provinces. Journalists in some jurisdictions were also
trained on subjects related to surveillance and control of risk factors for non-communicable diseases and in
tobacco control.

Objective iii. This specific objective was achieved through 7 calls for proposals for subprojects (3 call for bids for
operational research funds, 1 for intervention in Healthy Municipalities, 1 for the development of educational
strategies for health promotion, 1 for the implementation of smoke-free institutions, and 1 for health promotion
academic and professional projects. This financing aimed at strengthening governmental agencies, academic
institutions, and community organizations in the development of priority subjects with the potential of creating
synergies aimed at national policy-making, and the sustainability of health promotion activities at the local levels.

The Argentinean Network of Healthy Communities and Municipalities coordinated by the Department of Health
Relations and Health Research, aims at introducing into the local levels the importance of health promotion and
the bases for intersectoral work promoting the involvement of civil society. Through Component 3 and in
accordance with the third line of action proposed in its formulation, resources were allocated to technically and
financially support numerous activities supported by that network: national meetings, workshops, and technical
and financial support to intervention projects.

Objective iv. With regard to dissemination of Component activities, to facilitate access to the scientific
community and general population, it was decided to use the Internet as the communication channel. Various
programs of the Ministry of Health have been strengthened with the results of the projects supported, which today
are available in the Ministry's Web site, with special emphasis on the creation of the page of the National
Program for Tobacco Control. A collection of health promotion books is in the editing stage. Furthermore,
numerous workshops, conferences, and health promotion technical meetings, especially in the area of tobacco
control, were held, allowing the involvement of academic and community entities in the activities of the Program.

Objective v. The fifth objective proposed was partially met, giving rise to Commissions that then disappeared,
with the exception of the National Commission on Smoking Control and the National Commission for the
Participation of Civil Society Organizations in Health Promotion, which were supported by the Project and
continue to be active.

Objective vi. This objective as well as the next one was widely exceeded with the development of the National
Program for Tobacco Control (PNCT, in Spanish). This program is considered a priority by the Ministry of Health
and within the framework of the Federal Health Plan and was developed with activities of the VIGI-A, expanding


                                                         54

through its comprehensive approach what was proposed in the initial Project documents (PAD). With this
intervention the Ministry of Health has a program with a broad approach, with developed strategies, articulation
with NGOs and the Provinces, operational services, and a very specialized team of consultants addressing 4 core
elements: reduction of access to tobacco, promotion of tobacco-free lifestyles, reduction of exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke, and smoking cessation.

The Project designed a mass communication strategy that was implemented through several annual campaigns
aimed at installing the subject on the agenda, preventing smoking initiation, promoting smoke-free environments
and quitting the addiction to tobacco. As a result of these campaigns, a strong installation of the subject in public
opinion was achieved, demonstrated through opinion polls and the number of published newspaper articles on
tobacco, as well as behavior modification of the population with respect to general awareness, as shown by the
trend in the fall of cigarette sales in the last 2 years16and the reduction of the prevalence of tobacco consumption
among the adult population between 1999 and 2005.17

These results reflect the actions of the VIGI-A, strengthened by the sustained growth of provincial and municipal
legislation in force: in 1998 58% of the provinces had ordinances and other tobacco regulations increasing to
91.6% of the same in 2006.

A key activity for health surveillance and promotion in Argentina has been the design and implementation of the
1st National Survey of Risk Factors (ENFR, in Spanish). The Project generated a validated follow-up instrument
of the principal risk factors and a monitoring strategy linked to the national statistical system (INDEC) was
developed. The application of the validated instrument was formalized through an agreement with the INDEC and
the participation of the Provincial Bureaus of Statistics. The survey encompassed approximately 50,000
households and the databases, the general report carried out by INDEC, and a brief report prepared by the VIGI-A
are available in the Web site of the Ministry of Health. Publication of the complete report and the dissemination
of the results are currently underway.

The ENFR proposes a qualitative inflection point in addressing future surveillance and health promotion actions
both because it makes it possible to establish an accurate diagnosis and ensuing lines of work, and because it
establishes a baseline with which the expected future updates can be contrasted.

Objective vii. The development of the strategy for smoke-free environments included carrying out awareness
campaigns in the media, preparation of educational materials, development of training courses and the creation of
the National Registry of Smoke-free Companies and Institutions. Through the same, an important incentive was
generated for intervention in the private sector, resulting in more than 700 registered private enterprises
committed to this initiative.

The component has met the proposed targets in the Matrix of Indicators, as shown in Annex I of these document.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Unit.

The economic crisis intensified at the end of 2001 and in 2002 generated at least two consequences that affected
the program. On the one hand, the reduction of fiscal resources and, on the other, the impact on the
socioeconomic and thus the sanitary status of the population. This situation led to the need to allocate part of
Program resources to focus on the sanitary emergency through the purchase of inputs18 which affected not only


168% of per capita sales in 2004-2005.
17Prevalence in 1999 according to data from SEDRONAR and prevalence in 2005 according to ENFR.
18The devaluation at the beginning of 2002 especially affected the purchase of imported inputs.



                                                                   55

the availability of financial resources (48% of the loan was earmarked to these ends) but also of human resources.
This situation was reflected in the assignment of Program funds and in its execution (Annex III).

This situation led to an accelerated execution of the funds in the last two years of the program, showing an
appropriate reaction and effective management that made it possible to reach 100% of execution of the available
resources. However, the concentration of activities in a reduced period of time forced the reprogramming of
activities whose results may have been impaired by the acceleration of their implementation.

The peculiarities that characterized the economic situation experienced by the country during the course of 2002
generated difficulties in the progress of the works of all the Projects in the World Bank portfolio, due to delays
registered in the recognition by the national authorities of price determination mechanisms to allow balancing the
economic-financing equations of the work contracts, which were affected because the stipulations of the
convertibility law that forbid any price indexing or readjustment remained in effect. Such delays postponed until
2003 the acceptance on the part of the World Bank of greater costs in the works financed by the Bank, which
postponed the call for new bids for works. This explains why at the end of 2005 only 25% of the Civil Works
category had been executed although at the end of the first quarter 2006 it reached 61% ensuring full
disbursement of the loan before termination of the program.

The partial extensions granted by the financing institution for execution of the program hindered the programming
process with more adequate terms to ensure the achievement of products and results.

With regard to connectivity, the greatest difficulty resided in the use of a procurement mechanism that had not
been used before at the time of greater growth of the SNVS. This delayed for a long time the availability of
connectivity, generating an asynchronism with the implementation of the software and the delivery of the
hardware.

Factors usually subject to Government control

During the period of the emergency as in the entire National Government, there were long delays in contracting
the personnel that could carry on the activities of the regular program.
The incorporation of program personnel into the staff of the Ministry was fully made in the case of the Bureau of
Epidemiology and was completed with delay in the case of Health Promotion with the creation of the National
Program for Tobacco Control.

Sustainability

Component 1 and 2

Physical integration and of personnel of the Vigi-A Program to the National Bureau of Sanitary Programs was
concluded thus, currently, all the strategic activities are concentrated as a result of an active integration and
cooperation policy.
The consolidation process of the generated systems and the installation of a continuous improvement system and
maintenance of the same is guaranteed with the transfer, in the last stage, of the Program's computer technology
to the Ministry.

The majority of the provinces do not seem to have problems with regard to the possibility of financing or
cofinancing the connectivity service with their own resources. Furthermore, several of them have plans to digitize
all the areas in their orbits and in some cases especially the health area. In others, there are health care centers or
laboratories that have Internet connection services of their own, but that is used to load the SNVS, although total
territorial coverage is still not guaranteed.



                                                          56

The ANLIS is a strategic resource for the sustainability of the surveillance and control system since its institutes
act as national referents of programs and laboratories. This institution has not received additional resources in its
budget earmarked to the implementation of the new laboratory and the purchase of additional inputs. At present it
is negotiating with the National Budget Office to introduce the required budgetary modifications beginning next
year when the new facility will become operational.

In order to complete the investment the Ministry of Health of the Nation has assigned US$250 thousand from the
national treasury and a future project in on the table for the production of laboratory reagents needed to supply the
entire network.

The implementation of the program in the provinces led to the need to reorganize the activities of the respective
specific areas. However, this did not translate into changes in the organization chart granting the area greater
institutional strength in all the jurisdictions.

The incorporation of the trainers into the structures of each jurisdiction was completed not without difficulties in
some provinces.

The majority of the epidemiology areas in the provinces do not have specific budgetary assignments and there are
very few cases where the executed budget is known.
This shows significant weakness regarding the possibility of outlining concrete actions on these issues. The
resources managed by the areas often come from outside the provinces and in many cases they only have the
assignments of the Federal Government for programs for specific pathologies.
These problems have been taken into account in the design of the new Essential Public Health Functions Project
(Annex IV) whose execution will begin in 2007.

Component 3

With respect to the sustainability over time of health promotion activities, it should be highlighted that its
institutionalization is distributed among multiple areas of action:

The national authorities have indicated their deep commitment to the continuity of the prioritized line of work --
tobacco control-- which will be maintained as a National Program under the Department of Health Programs.
This Program was recently created through Ministerial Resolution, expanding the scope of the preexisting
Program in accordance with the lines of action developed by the VIGI-A, and contracting of the human resources
for Component 3 is in full process in the Ministry. It is expected that local support for the actions continues in the
provinces although the allocated resources are limited. The presentation before the National Congress of draft
legislation on tobacco control is an important milestone with respect to the deepening and sustainability over time
of the actions addressed by the program, as its approval will provide the required legal framework. Provincial
initiatives on legislative matters show the same trend, especially in three provinces that established broad scope
legislation: Córdoba, Santa Fe, and Tucumán.

The Healthy Municipalities network is based on the multiplicity of partnerships, thus it will require alternatives to
replace the resources of the VIGI-A. In this case the national authorities are especially interested in its
sustainability.

With regard to the ENFR, its relations with INDEC were consolidated through VIGI-A activities. INDEC carried
out the implementation of the survey making possible its articulation with the National Statistical System and the
sustainability of surveillance through an agreement between the two institutions.




                                                          57

Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank:

The successive extensions for short periods generated many restrictions in the management capacity of the
Execution Unit. The permanent horizon of the close end of the Project limited the possibility of a strategic
approach to the development of activities, considering the complexity of the actor map interacting with the
Project.

The World Bank supported the Project initiative of contracting the INDEC for the implementation of the ENFR,
so as to ensure its integration into the National Statistical System and the sustainability of the tool to ensure
compliance with the surveillance functions.
Nevertheless, it was the subject of extensive negotiations with the Bank that, initially, objected to the contracting
of public agencies.

The lack of authorization to contract human resources for surveillance of hospital-acquired infections delayed the
advance of this activity. This takes on significant importance because the development of the Hospital-acquired
Infection Program was began after the VIGI-A Program was halfway through its initiation.

The objection of the World Bank to continue the contracting of the Managers during the last extension of the
Project represented an unnecessary risk to the integrity of the Execution Unit, which had no correspondence with
the level of activities that the Project had to carry out during that period.

The restriction imposed by the financing institution to select as trainers professionals from outside the public
health system caused conflicts at the time of their integration as regular staff of the ministries.
A satisfactory rating is given to the support provided by the Bank in making available external consultants of
recognized international experience for the technical assistance on specific lines of work such as Non-
communicable Diseases, Injuries, Hospital-acquired Infections, Laboratories, Tobacco.

Borrower:
The multiple changes in the management of the Project generated difficulties in the normal progress of the
activities.

In the second semester of 2003, when Project execution was halfway through the term expected for its
implementation, a new management team took over the Execution Unit and was responsible for achieving the
objectives of the Project until the end.

Lessons Learned

The Project showed that the achievements of the activities and their sustainability was strengthened when it was
able to work in coordination with other national agencies (INDEC, other Secretariats or Ministries).
The usefulness of the funding mechanisms to finance the Subprojects was apparent and although their social or
sanitary impact was reduced, they serve as producers of local capabilities that strengthen the development of
national and provincial policies. An adjustment of the administrative procedures and the strengthening of local
management capacities is needed, in order to successfully complete these sub-projects. The strategy used through
the operational research projects and the support provided to the municipalities made it possible to expand the
public capacity and mobilize civil society resources.




                                                           58

Nation-Provinces Relation:

a. From the Nation:

One of the principal lessons in the relation with the provinces is the need to structure a national surveillance and
health promotion system with sufficient resources and active presence beyond the weaknesses of the institutional
capacity of the provinces.
The importance of generating active and committed participation opportunities from provincial management
teams to successfully carry out program activities should be emphasized. There is a need to intensify the efforts of
the Nation with those provinces with less institutional capacity.

b. From the provinces:

There is a permanent tension between two positions: one, with a substratum and common arguments to all the
interventions of the National Government in any of its areas, is centered on the preservation of autonomy of
provincial surveillance with regard to the SNVS and the other is centered on the demand of a growing and
sustained intervention on the part of the Nation.

The first argument holds that "standardization" has not taken into account the provincial and regional needs and
demands for epidemiological surveillance, disease prevention, and health promotion, pressuring the provincial
structures to produce the desired transformations that are necessary to install a national coverage system. The
second argument uses a demand for greater intervention on the part of the Nation --in terms of budget, regulation
and training of human resources-- that guarantees the sustainability of the actions undertaken and grants
hierarchy of State policy to the objectives of the VIGI-A.

Regardless of the tension "demand for autonomy-demand for greater intervention" and of the other demands
presented, in all the provincial cases analyzed it is possible to observe a highly positive rating of the objectives
and achievements of the VIGI-A. Indeed, based on the External Evaluation Report, one of the inputs that enjoys
absolute consensus in the universe of the provinces analyzed alludes to the homogenization of the surveillance
language, produced, among other actions, by the training in basic epidemiology. In other words, the
implementation and organization of a uniform surveillance system for the Nation.

With respect to COFESA there is widespread agreement regarding its importance as a venue to meet and work to
reach consensus between the Nation and the provinces. It is often pointed out that this should be the area to
discuss future lines of work to consolidate what has been done thus far by the VIGI-A, since it is an area with
continuity, in which the need to give a federal character to the health policies is emphasized. In this regard, the
need to classify and consolidate it as such is pointed out.

A definition of regional spaces to strengthen health surveillance, taking into account the epidemiological realities
beyond political limitations, is also favored. In this regard it should be pointed out that the VIGI-A supported
knowledge transfer and communication among the actors of the different provinces and within these.

The established administrative bureaucratic mechanisms for management and accountability of expenditures
incurred by the provinces and the NGOs need to be simplified given the management capacity of these
institutions.
From the provinces there is the need for more detailed planning and aimed at regional and provincial needs, that
takes into account the demands and the levels already reached by the different actors of the health system.

The lack of human resources in the provinces and the high turnover of the same hinder the transfer of knowledge
and capacities and their ownership by the local systems.



                                                         59

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

  Not applicable.




                                               60

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents
(In the Portal, each document can be linked to a file in IRIS or attach a new document)

   1. Project Appraisal Document for a Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project (September 24,
   1999; Report No: 19154)
   2. Legal Documents for a Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project including: (i) Loan
   Agreement (November 3, 2000; loan number 4516-AR); (ii) first amendment to loan agreement (August 28,
   2000); (iii) second amendment to loan agreement (July 1, 2002); (iv) third amendment to loan agreement and
   supplemental letter (July 15, 2004); and (v) extension of closing date (May 23, 2005)
   3. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports
   4. Project Progress Reports
   5. Consultant study reports financed under the Project.
   6. ICR & Annexes prepared by the Borrower ( September 19, 2006)
   7. Other relevant Project documents, such as: Evaluación Externa del programa VIGI-A en su trabajo en las
   áreas de Vigilancia Epidemiológica, Control de Enfermedades y Promoción de la Salud.
   8. Related documents published with the support of the Project, including: (i) Guía Nacional de Tratamiento
   de la Adicción al Tabaco (2005); (ii) Políticas Públicas de Control del Tabaco en la Argentina, Avances y
   Logros 2003-2005; (iii) Guía Nacional de Instituciones de Salud Libres de Humo de Tabaco (2005); (iv)
   Metodología para la Certificación de Empresas e Instituciones Libres de Humo de Tabaco (2005); (v)
   Manual de Ambientes Laborales Libres de Humo de Tabaco (2005); and (vi) Boletín Epidemiológico
   Nacional (2003).




                                                         61

Annex 13. 1 List of people interviewed for the ICR:

The preparation of this ICR included a one-week field mission in Buenos Aires, Argentina (February 19-26,
2006). A visit to the Province of Buenos Aires and to one of its regions (region VI, Lomas de Zamora) was also
conducted during this mission. This facilitated direct interviews with different stakeholders and people closely
related to the Project during its various preparation and implementation phases. Included in these interviews
were:

MOH authorities (central level):
        Gines Gonzalez Garcia - Minister of Health
        Leonardo Di Pietro, Chief of Cabinet & Advisor to the Minister of Health
        Carlos Alberto Vizzotti - Subsecretary of Health Research and Relations
        Andres Leibovitch - Subsecretary of Health
        Mariella Rosses - Director of Health Promotion and Disease Prevention
        Hugo Fernandez - National Director of Epidemiology
        Oscar Filomena - Director of the UFI-S
        Gustavo A. Rios - Director of the ANLIS
        Guillermo Lossa - Director of the Jara -Institute for Epidemiology
        Elsa Zerbini - Director of the CONI- Institute for Tuberculosis
        Luis Carlino, Staff, National Epidemiology Directorate

The Project (VIGI-A) staff:
        Daniel G. Fontana - General Coordinator
        Omar Zein - Health Surveillance and Disease Control Manager (Components I and II)
        Mario Virgolini - Health Promotion Mansger (Component III)
        Mirta A. Molinari - Consultant in Tobacco Control
        Other project staff in all components

Province of Buenos Aires:
        Carlos Luis Sanguinetti - Subsecretary of Health Services (Provincial MOH)
        Health authorities and staff of the Sanitary Region VI

Other main actors:
        Gerado Hita, National Director for Projects with International Financing Agencies (Ministry of Finance)
        Zulma E. Ortiz - Former Project Staff and PCU Director
        Diego L. Perazzo, President of the Argentinean Anti-Tobacco Union, and staff

People interviewed in Washington DC or abroad included:
        Anabela Abreu - WB Health Sector Manager and former Task Manager
        Isabella Danel - WB Senior Health Specialist and current Task Manager
        MarceloBortman - WB Public Health Specialist and former PCU Director




                                                        62

Annex 13.2. Summary of ICR for Emergency Component

1. Introduction

This annex provides a summary description of the Emergency Component. The information presented in this
annex includes the overall evaluation ratings of the Emergency Program (not only those components that are were
partially funded with financial resources from the VIGI-A Project).

2. Overall Rating

Overall, the performance rating of the project outcome of the entire Emergency project is satisfactory; the Bank
performance rating is satisfactory, and the borrower performance rating is also satisfactory. The sustainability is
rated as satisfactory, and the institutional development impact is rated as medium.

3. Development Objectives and Design

3.1. Original Objective
The main objective of this program was to provide the material support needed to avoid the most deleterious
impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable population with actions in health, education, nutrition, temporary
work, income support and community activities.

In relation to the Health sector component of the Emergency Program (Health Emergency Program--HEP), the
general objective was to help the government to protect the most vulnerable population and to maintain essential
public health programs. These programs support the functioning of the public hospital network, provide essential
drugs for the most vulnerable, and protect priority public health measures, including immunizations, disease
control and ensuring services related to women's reproductive health care and prenatal controls, such as anemia
prevention, child delivery, newborn reception, post-partum and child health care, through the provision of
pharmaceutical products, medical supplies and iron-fortified milk.

Bank support for these activities was channeled through existing operations, including: the Maternal and Child
Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN) (Loan 4164-AR) and the Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control
Project (VIGIA) (Loan 4516). In addition cost savings of Provincial Roads Project (4093-AR), Flood Protection
Project (4117-AR), Provincial Agriculture Development Project (4150AR), Buenos Aires Urban Transport
Project (4163-AR). Savings from Higher Education Reform Loan (Loan 3921-AR) supported activities under
VIGIA only.

The new health components of the Higher Education Reform project were added through the fifth amendment of
16 October 2002.

3.2. Extensions of the closing date
The overall Emergency Program has been extended until 2005. However the extension of this program does not
affect the resources coming from the Higher Education Reform Project since 100 percent of the resources (US$
17.6 million) have already been disbursed.




                                                        63

3.3. Original Components

3.3.1. General Information

The original two components were described in a President's Memorandum entitled "Argentina--Proposed
Amendment to Restructure the Portfolio to Support the Finance of the Emergency Program" and dated 23
September 2002 (R2002-0189). Since this program consisted of the restructuring of already existing projects there
were no SAR or PAD.

The funds for the Emergency Program in the health sector (Emergencia ­ Salud) were implemented through two
main channels consisting of two previously existing lending projects in the health sector: the Maternal and Child
Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN) (Loan 4164-AR) and the Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control
Project (VIGIA) (Loan 4516). LUSIDA was a third project that was being implemented in the health sector
supporting activities in the HIV / AIDS program in Argentina at the time of the design of the emergency program.
However, given the fact that the project would be completed by the time of the implementation of the emergency
project, this project was not chosen to be one of the components.

The special emergency circumstances under which the program was developed and implemented required a
complex design to be implemented within a difficult institutional framework which included various actors: the
relevant sectorial and extra-sectorial projects at the Bank and at the Inter American Development Bank (IADB),
the two projects PROMIN and VIGIA, the International Finance Unit of the Ministry of Health, "Unidad de
Financiamiento Internacional- Salud" (UFI-S) which was responsible for the financial management of the funds
on behalf of PROMIN and VIGIA, and finally the departments that traditionally carried out the purchases and
acquisitions of the goods within the Ministry of Health.

Table No. 1 details the savings allocation according to each of the programs.

                                                          Table No.1
                      Bank Loans with Savings Reallocated to the Social Emergency Program
                                                       (In US$ millions)

                                                            Undisbursed   Amount reallocated   Amount reallocated
                                     Loan No. Loan Amount   July 31 2002   to VIGIAactivities to PROMIN activities
              Higher Education        3921       139             28               17.6                 -
              Provincial Roads        4093       300            200                9                  9
              Flood Protection        4117       200            130               30                  5
              Provincial Agriculture  4150       125            105               15                  5
              BA Urban Transport      4163       200            126               35                  15
              TOTAL                              994            617             106.6                 34



3.3.2. Health Emergency Program subcomponents

The Health Emergency Program had two subcomponents: a) The Strengthening of Disease Control
Subcomponent implemented through the VIGIA; and b) The Emergency Drugs and Supplies Subcomponent
implemented through the PROMIN.

a) The Strengthening of Disease Control Subcomponent implemented through the VIGIA

The specific objective of the VIGIA component designed to acquire anti-retro viral therapy was to sustain the
reduced mortality rates that have been attained and provide resources for the public program designed to contain
vertical transmission of HIV among pregnant women in Argentina.




                                                             64

Since 9 January 2002 when a new law was passed, public hospitals, social security institutions and private health
insurances must offer pregnant women the option of having an HIV test, and if the result is positive to provide
appropriate therapy to avoid vertical transmission to their children. The emergency component supported this
public program to avoid vertical transmission of HIV to newborns.

The subcomponent under the VIGIA project: a) carried out a program of actions for disease monitoring, control
and prevention of tuberculosis, dengue, and other vector disease control, and hospital infections, through the
acquisition and distribution of medical drugs and supplies, and pesticides; and b) carried out a set of actions for
disease monitoring, control and prevention of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, through, inter
alia, the provision of anti-retro viral therapy and critical diagnostic supplies for blood banks and other diagnostic
centers.

The procurement arrangements designed to implement the acquisitions program were:

    Vaccines and drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis (US $13.5 million), through direct contracting with the
    Pan American Health Organization (PAHO);
    HIV / AIDS drugs (anti-retroviral therapy and antibiotics against opportunistic infections) and supplies for
    blood banks (inputs for diagnostic of HIV, hepatitis B and C and syphilis) (US $10.4 million), through limited
    international bidding (LIB);
    Supplies for vector control programs, laboratory equipment and vehicles (US $10.64 million), through
    international competitive bidding (ICB);
    Medical supplies including prescription drugs (US $1.76 million), through national competitive bidding
    (NCB);
    Medical supplies including drugs, vaccines and others (US $0.1 million), through shopping.

b) The Emergency Drugs and Supplies Subcomponent implemented through the PROMIN

The specific objective of this subcomponent was to improve the services related to women's reproductive health
care and prenatal controls, including anemia prevention, child delivery, newborn reception, post-partum and child
health care, through the acquisition of and distribution of medical drugs and supplies, and pesticides.

The activities implemented under the PROMIN (a total amount of US $34 million) project included:

    Prenatal controls and anemia prevention. This activity refers to the provision of medical controls during
    pregnancy and early detection and treatment of anemia among pregnant women.
    Child delivery and newborn reception. This activity refers to the medical assistance for delivery of children
    and care of newborns.
    Post-partum care. This activity refers to the early medical care of women who just have delivered their babies.
    Purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical supplies. This activity refers to the purchase of
    pharmaceutical products and medical supplies needed for prenatal controls and anemia, for child delivery,
    newborn reception and post-partum care.
    Purchase of iron-fortified milk for mother and infants. This activity refers to the purchase of milk enriched
    with iron an important nutritional supplement for both pregnant women and infants.

The economic, social and political instability that ensued Argentina's default of its debt and the devaluation of the
currency caused a serious deterioration of the capacity of the government to sustain essential public health
programs. The crisis had a broad impact across all sectors of public and private institutions. Public health services
were overburdened due to an increasing demand caused by the growth of unemployment. The rapidly increasing
number of individuals without any health insurance coverage in the years previous to the crisis was compounded
by the shock of the crisis in the labor markets and on household incomes.



                                                          65

Bank support through the health component was planned to provide for about 27 million vaccinations, such as for
hepatitis and polio, as well as give about 3.5 million people anti-TB vaccines (about 15,000 new cases of TB were
identified in 2002, up from 13,000 in 1997, with another 18,000 expected for 2003), and help another 17,200
patients with AIDS being treated through the public sector. Strengthening support through the PROMIN program
was planned to enhance health and nutrition benefits for the initial target population of 70,000 poor pregnant
women, 55,000 children less than one year old and 250,000 children ages 2 to 5 years old. In education, the
relevant component would benefit about 4.2 million students from targeted high risks schools, or about half of the
total student population at primary and secondary levels. In addition, the nutrition/ community action component
would reach about 350,000 poor indigents and provide them with a daily meal during the next two years.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1. Objective
The main objective of this program was to provide the material support needed to avoid the most deleterious
impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable population with actions in health, education, nutrition, temporary
work, income support and community activities. The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory

                                                             Graph No. 1


                       Argentina 1998 - 2003 Evolution of Infant Mortality Rates Source: PAHO and MoH of Argentina


                  19.5


                              19.1
                   19



                  18.5



                   18


                                               17.6
                  17.5


               R   17
                IM
                                                                                                    16.8
                                                                  16.6
                  16.5                                                                                               16.5
                                                                                    16.3

                   16



                  15.5



                   15



                  14.5
                          1998              1999              2000               2001            2002             2003

                                                                        Years


When Argentina was facing the peak of the economic crisis, infant mortality increased from 16.2 in 2001 to 16.8
in 2002 (mainly neonatal mortality). This phenomenon not only meant a break in a steady trend of infant mortality
decline but a reversal of it, an unprecedented case even when compared with poorer countries in the region. The
Emergency ­ Health Program implemented through PROMIN and VIGIA has contributed to maintain a safety net
for the most vulnerable population. Preliminary analysis of recent data suggests Argentina has started to go back
to trends of decreasing infant mortality rates existing before the crisis (see Graph No.1).

4.2. Outputs
The program has fulfilled its objectives and reached the goals originally set: almost 8 million doses of anti-
tuberculosis vaccine (BCG) have been distributed and administered, that is 4.5 million more than originally


                                                                   66

planned. Combined anti-retroviral drug treatments were distributed and timely received by 19,500 individuals,
which represents 2,500 more than the original goal of 17,000. The fortified milk component has benefited a
combined total of 1.3 million children less than one year old and pregnant women, which represents more than
280 percent of the proposed coverage goals.

It is important to point out that this success is due in large part to the diminishing price of the relevant drugs and
other goods acquired through this program, a situation that is related to a diversity of factors observed in various
bidding process, such as the purchases of vaccines through PAHO, the acquisition of generic drugs instead of
brand names, and/or the participation of more providers in the bidding process. The application of Bank
procurement rules for the acquisition of goods and services for the PROMIN project introduced new standards for
acquisition and purchasing practices in the health sector. New competitive biddings opened up the market and
allowed prices to reach new equilibrium conditions reflecting more competitive practices. Taking advantage of
these positive market effects and new exchange rates allowed the program to be more effective in reaching its
original and emergency objectives.

                                                                              Table No.2
                             Disbursements of Emergency Program Health Component 1999-2004

                                                       ORIGINAL                 Executed   Executed   Executed   Executed     2002                     2004
                            ITEM                       BUDGET    ACTUAL BUDGET   1998       1999       2000       2001                      2,003
                                                                                (SOE 12)   (SOE 25)   (SOE 36)   (SOE 49)   (SOE 65) (*)             Projected



         1. SUBPROJECTS                                69,900       60,600       7,783     13,627     11,196      5,221       4,448       2,322      6,361

          A   Equipment                                11,400       9,500        812        1,911      1,320      749         712           357      2,191

          B   Civil works                              45,500       30,400       3,825      7,232      6,056      2,079       1,119         278      2,540

          C   Training, Dissem. & Instit. Strength.    13,000       20,700       3,146      4,484      3,820      2,393       2,617       1,687      1,630

         2. HEALTH STATISTICS                          4,800        2,100          0          2          1         14         188           354        739

          A   Goods                                    3,200        1,200          0          2          1          0           0           152        605

          B   Consultants                              1,600         900           0          0          0         14         188           202        134

         3. COORDINATION AND SUPERVISION                5,300       8,500          1        2,209      1,934      829         1,584         956        563

          A   Consulting                               4,800        8,100          1        2,157      1,913      827         1,461         796        533

          B   Goods                                     500          400           0         52         21          2         123           160        30

         4. NOT ASSIGNED (*)                           20,000         0            0          0          0          0           0             0         0

         5. STUDIES (NATIONAL)                            0         3,600          0          0          0          0         260           90         957

            REGULAR PROMIN Subtotal                   100,000      74,800       7,784     15,838     13,131      6,064       6,480        3,722      8,620

                                                                                 10%        21%        18%        8%          9%            5%        12%



          HEALTH EMERGENCY Subtotal                       0        25,200          0          0          0          0        4,056       16,740        76

                                                                                 0%         0%         0%         0%          16%         66%          1%



                     TOTAL PROMIN II                  100,000      100,000      7,784     15,838     13,131      6,064       10,536       20,462     8,697


                                                                                 8%         16%        13%        6%          11%         20%          9%


Additionally, by taking advantage of the new conditions created by the new Sexual and Reproductive Health
(SRH) law passed in 2002 the project supported Sexual and Reproductive Health activities deemed very important
by the Ministry of Health. Argentina did not have a comprehensive National Program for Sexual and reproductive
health care and by 2003 the law had not yet been implemented. Within this context the project help strengthen the
existing team in order to create a comprehensive program. As a consequence of these actions, the Program is
currently being implemented in all the provinces (whereas it originally only existed at a smaller scale in four
provinces).

The EPH program has already reached a level of disbursement of 90 percent of the financial resources that were
originally destined for this program. Furthermore, an estimated level of 98 percent will be reached by the end of
June 2005 (see Graph and Table No. 1).



                                                                                      67

5. Major factors affecting implementation and outcome

Prices of important medicines and supplies kept artificially high by closed markets and other public purchasing
practices

Along with other structural limitation of purchasing practices in the public sector the relatively high prices of
many health care goods such as pharmaceuticals and others placed important economic constraints on decision
makers on the capacity to acquire such products. The purchase of important pharmaceuticals like pediatric
medicines, anti- retrovirals, condoms and other inputs for the public health services were limited by prevailing
practices that placed important barriers on the entrance of new providers of these health care products.


6. Sustainability

The government of Argentina has been planning and implementing a gradual phasing out of the Emergency
program by:

    Progressively incorporating the most critical inputs for important basic public health that were supported by
    the Emergencia ­ Salud Program in the national budget since the fiscal year 2004 (i.e. vaccines have already
    been acquired regularly through the national budget during this fiscal year as before the crisis).

    Encouraging and supporting the provinces to incorporate back into the provincial budgets other important
    inputs necessary to sustain public health programs such as pesticides for vector control. Some provinces have
    already started this process.

    Planning and designing a transitional project that supports the complete phase out of the Emergencia - Salud
    Program within a longer term strategy of improvement and reform of public policies that address important
    basic public health goods. Currently the authorities are also exploring the possibility that such project could
    be carried out in partnership with the Bank.

7. Bank and borrower performance

7.1. Bank Lending
The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The program objectives were closely aligned with the crisis response of
the Bank and also with the new objectives defined by Bank for the Social Emergency Program. The development
of the emergency program for the health sector has made an efficient use of existing financial resources, on going
projects and local institutional capacity in order to provide a rapid response to the state of social emergency in
which Argentina was subsumed. The design of the program, although complex, has proven to be highly effective
in order to achieve the proposed development objectives. Also, the Bank's response was well coordinated with
other agencies such as the Inter American Development Bank (IADB) and other local and international
institutions. This broad coalition of efforts was focused on tackling the most urgent needs of the government with
the goal of protecting the poorest groups of the population and its human capital.

7.2. Supervision
The supervision of the project was of high technical quality, using efficiently the combination of available human
resources. The Bank carried out a total of six supervision missions to VIGIA and PROMIN during the
implementation of the emergency program. In each of these missions a special time was devoted to analyze the
progress of the emergency program as related to the health sector. Additionally, three missions were carried out
especially devoted to supervise the Emergency Program.



                                                         68

8. Lessons learned

Effective response to crisis needs to be built on national and international coordination. The major socio-
economic crisis that Argentina faced posed a serious challenge for the government and for the Bank to provide
support to protect the most detrimental effects of the crisis among poor and indigent households. The concerted
actions of international organizations and government focusing on selected objectives aimed to protect key human
capital resources proved to be of the utmost importance in provide effective assistance.

Crisis response can be more effective and rapid if built upon existing institutions and on-going portfolio projects.
Working within the framework of existing organizations and programs such as PROMIN, VIGIA and UFI-S
permitted the consolidation and improvement of an already existing institutional capacity within the Ministry of
Health. The selection of key personnel that was able to work closely and understood the mechanics not only of
projects and procedures within the health sector but also within other governmental institutions such as the
Ministry of Economics and other important public sector stakeholders was of great importance to achieve the
objectives of the program. A crisis can also serve as an opportunity for introducing important policy changes with
longer lasting consequences such as is the case of the introduction of the new reproductive health programs. The
evaluation of potential cost saving strategies may allow to introduce new practices that can reduce drastically cost
of important public health programs such as was the case of the savings obtained after the decision to purchase of
generic drugs for the anti-retroviral therapies.

Trust among major actors responding to crisis is crucial. Despite all the tensions and constraints that such major
crisis imposed on the government and the Bank, it is important to create an environment of mutual trust and
understanding from the beginning in order to facilitate the implementation of the program, the early detection of
obstacles and the proposition of feasible solutions that can be mutually agreed upon.

9. Partner comments on the performance of the Bank

9.1. Preparation
The extremely efficient and rapid response by the Bank's officers was a key contribution in support of the
governments' efforts to avoid the worst effects of the crisis in the health sector. Several identification and
preparation missions led to a project design that took advantage of the UFI-S in order to develop fast-track
negotiation processes and to carry out the implementation of the entire project.

9.2. Implementation
The flexibility shown by the Bank in order to make it possible some exceptions given the exceptional
circumstances that the country was facing (i.e. purchasing of vaccines through PAHO).

The government commends the creativeness in the design of the mechanisms (special accounts type "B") that
allowed the concurrent disbursement of funds of the same loan for the regular activities of the project (from which
the funds had been reallocated) and for the emergency related activities. The same advantages of the disbursement
mechanisms were found in the design of separate financial reports for the funds of the original project and the part
destined for the Emergencia related activities and their corresponding auditing processes.

A negative factor in launching the project were the delays in taking the necessary legal steps for the amendment to
be finally accepted and effective. Another negative aspect at the beginning of the implementation process was the
delay in the responses to the no objection requests and needed reports (i.e. environmental analysis) due to the
innovative nature of the project and the burden of the work load that representatives of the Bank faced vis--vis
the complexity of the operation and the highly complex circumstances within which the project was being
developed.




                                                         69

[MAP]




 70

