Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19154
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$52.5 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR
A PUBLIC HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
September 24, 1999
Human and Social Development Group
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCiQ EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Sepitember 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (A1R)
ARS 100 <JSSI00
FISCA -' EAR
January I tbhoug'h Derember 31
ABBREVLA ION.S AND ACRONYMS
ANLIS                          National Refrrence Laboratory (Administraci6n Nacional de
Laboratorios  .    s -de Salud)
CAS                            Couintry Assistanee Sirategy
CDC                            Carters for Dlt sse tontrol
DALYs                          Disability.-Adiurst'd   ' AYears
ERR                            Economic Rate of Return
FONCODES                       (Peru) Sociat. D iveloprent and Compensation Fund Project
GDP                            Gross Domestic Pnonut
GNP                            Gross Natiorli Piodtu'vt
HIV/AIDS                       Human Imrnmn-Defilrciency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndromre
HP                             Health Prornotion
IBRD                           international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                            Imolementation Completion Report
IDB                            Inter-American Development Bank
LAC                            Latin America and the Caribbean
LACI                           Loan Administration Change initiative
LCSHD                          Latin America and thke Caribbean Social and Human Development
LIL                            Learning anid I innovation Loan
LUSIDA                         (Argentina) AIDS and STD Control Project
M&E                            Monitoring and Evalaation
MIS                            Managemtent Information System
MoH                            Ministry of Health (Provincial)
MSAS                           Ministry of Health. and Social Action (National)
NCD                            Non-Communicable Diseases
NGO                            Non-Govermnenrtal Organization
NI                             Nosocomial Infections
NPV                            Net Present ValuAe
OECD                           Organizatiorn for Lconomiic Cooperation and Development
OM                             Oper-ational Manual
PAHO                           Pan-Americani Health Organization
PCMAM                          (Brazil) Amnazoli Basin Malaria Control Project
PCDEN                          (Brazil) Endemic Disease Control Project
PCU                            Project Coordination Unit
PHSS                           Public Health Sav-tellance System
PIP                            Project Implementation Plan
PMRs                           Project Manaagement Reports
PRESSAL                        (Argerltina) Provi cial Health Sector Reform Project
PROMIN                        (Argentina) Mateinal and Child Health & Nutrition Project
SA                             Special Accrnt
STD                            Sexually Trans.unitted Disease
TA                             Technical Assistance
UNDP                           United Nations Developmert Program
VIGI-A                        (Argentina) Pmobnlo Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project
VIGISUS                        (Brazil) Disease Surveillance and Control Project
WHO                            World Health Organization
Vice President         David de Ferranti
Country Directo:f      ¼vi-ma Alexander
Sector Director        XaLver Coll
Taski Teamr Leader     A-nabela Abreu



Argentina
Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGI-A)
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective .............................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................2
2. Key performance indicators..................                        ...............  2
B  Strategic Context .............................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                      .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices        .4
C  Project Description Summary .......................                                           6
1. Project components                                  .6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project            .8
3. Benefits and target population                           .8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                    .8
D Project Rationale .11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .     12
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design .13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .14
E Summary Project Analysis .15
1. Economic .15
2. Financial ......................1.................................................................... 18
3. Technical ................................ 19
4. Institutional .20
5. Social .21
6. Environmental assessment .21
7. Participatory approach .21
F Sustainability and Risks .21
1. Sustainability .21
2. Critical Risks .22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .23



G Main Loan Conditions .........................                                      23
1. Effectiveness Conditions .........................                         23
2. Other .........................                                            23
H Readiness for Implementation .........................                              24
I Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                             24
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Economic Analysis
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.     Country at a Glance
Annex 11      Public Health Surveillance in Argentina
Annex 12      Assessment of Laboratory Infrastructure
Annex 13      Data Telecommunications Plan
Annex 14      Training Program Summary
Map (IBRD No. 29348)



Argentina
Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGI-A)
Project Appraisal Document
Region of Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Date: September 24, 1999                             Team Leader: Anabela Abreu
Country Director: Myrna Alexander                    Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: AR-PE 55482                              Sector: HNP
Lending Instrument: Standard Investment Loan (SIL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [1  No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan       [ ] Credit     [] Grant       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):   US$52.5
Proposed terms:    [ ] To be defined    [ ] Multicurrency       [X] Single currency
] Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed           [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            5
Years to maturity:              15
Commitment fee:                 0.75%
Service charge:               -%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:     1.0%
Government                                                21.25              1.25             22.5
IBRD                                                      48.75              3.75             52.5
Total:                                                    70.0               5.0              75.0
Borrower: Argentine Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Health and Social Action
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual       4.6         22.0         17.7         8.2
Cumulative       4.6         26.6         44.3       52.2
Project implementation period: 1999-2003
Expected effectiveness date: January 31, 1999         Expected closing date: April 30, 2004
Implementing agency: Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS)
Contact person: Dr. Horacio Lopez
Address: Avenida de Mayo 953, 3er piso, Bueno.s Aires, Argentina 10804
Tel: 54-1-14-345-3612/3641    Fax: same as phone             E-mail: vigiapsatlink.com.ar



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to strengthen national, provincial, municipal and local institutions
responsible for public health policy and practice. The ultimate goal is to reduce the disease burden,
especially among the poor who suffer from a high incidence of preventable disease. It will focus on three
areas: public health surveillance', disease prevention and control, and health promotion. First, by
strengthening disease surveillance, the project will improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health and
Social Action (MSAS) to make informed decisions about prevention and control priorities and to monitor
the impact of interventions. Second, the project will strengthen provincial capacity to carry out disease
monitoring, control and prevention for several diseases that pose a serious public health threat including
tuberculosis, dengue and hospital infections. Third, the project will help to develop a health promotion
program focusing on education, social mobilization, and advocacy.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators toward program objectives will be measured through a monitoring and
evaluation system. Performance of the project will be deternined by selected monitoring indicators such
as: (i) tuberculosis incidence decreased 15%; (ii) hospital-acquired infections in target hospitals
associated with catheter, urinary tract, and ventilator reduced by 20%, 10% and 10% respectively; (iii)
90% of all cases of invasive meningococcal disease detected have been investigated and appropriate
control measures instituted; (iv) at least 200 influenza viruses per year obtained from throat swabs taken
from patients at influenza sentinel sites; (v) regular issuance of public health bulletins; (vi) at least 6
candidates trained on outbreak investigation (advanced level); (vii) at least 120 candidates trained on data
for decision making; and (viii) at least 30 candidates trained on laboratory safety. The complete set of
monitoring indicators for the project is presented in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16505-AR - Date of latest CASprogress discussion: November 10, 1998
(CAS Progress Report No. R-98-266; IFC/R-98-233)
The project is consistent with the CAS objectives to strengthen the institutional basis for investing in
human capital to improve social welfare and the productivity of the work force. First, the public health
services in Argentina will be strengthened through improved disease surveillance, providing the necessary
epidemiological foundation for rational allocation and mobilization of resources, priority-setting, and
policy development. Second, the health services will be strengthened through support for improved
management, laboratory services, improved control of hospital infections, and training of physicians and
nurses in prevention and treatment of selected diseases. Third, by strengthening public health and health
promotion, the project will help to reduce morbidity and mortality and associated costs. Because the
project targets diseases that disproportionately affect the poor, it will also contribute to poverty alleviation
and enhance social development objectives.
Surveillance is the ongoing systematic collection, collation, analysis, and interpretation of health data, closely integrated with
the timely dissemination of these data, to those who need to know in order that action may be taken. The tasks of public health
surveillance include detecting new health problems, detecting epidemics, documenting the spread of disease, providing
quantitative estimates of the magnitude of morbidity and mortality, identif,uing potential factors involved in the disease
occurrence, facilitating epidemiological and laboratory research, and assessing control and prevention activities. Summarizing,
surveillance is a key tool for epidemic response, control activities, health policy and resource allocation.



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. Total health care spending in Argentina has long been one of the highest in Latin America,
about eight percent of GDP. The overall health indicators of Argentina are good when compared with
those of other countries in the region, and have improved markedly over the past ten years. In 1995, life
expectancy stood at 73 years, 12 more than 1960, and in 1997 the crude death rate stood at 7.6 per 1,000.
In 1997, infant mortality stood at 18.8 per 1000 births, and the maternal mortality ratio at 3.8 per 10,000
births, down by 26 and 27 percent from 1990, respectively. These favorable trends suggest that the
present maternal and child health strategy and programs should be pursued further. The relatively good
national health indicators hide significant variations between the provinces and the different income
groups. The poor have much worse health status than the rich, and have a different pattern of death,
disease and disability. Thus, despite the recent advances, Argentina's performance, in terms of health
indicators and public satisfaction with quality of health care, still can be improved.
The roots of this discrepancy lie in the fact that Argentina is a federal state, with significant differences
among the provinces in terms of efficiency in health care finance and delivery. To address this problem,
the Government of Argentina (GoA) began to implement, in the early 90's, a series of sweeping and
promising reforms, which address some of the key issues in the sector. Specifically, the major health
sector issues have been:
* Health Status. The decrease of the infant and maternal mortality rates allowed Argentina to meet the
targets agreed between UNICEF and its member countries in 1991. The country needs to further
strengthen its prevention and control programs with respect to some preventable diseases including
tuberculosis, dengue and hospital infections. At the same time, Argentina has emerging health
problems which include cardiovascular disease, cancers, and injuries which need to be addressed in a
more systematic fashion.
*  Surveillance Capacity. Significant effort has been made in recent years to strengthen the national
surveillance system, which tripled the number of communicable disease notifications. In spite of
such effort, the system is still under development and needs significant investments in training of its
personnel, physical infrastructure and organization. The system needs better coordination at the
national level, as well as improvements in standardization, links between epidemiological and
laboratory data, and the data telecommunication system.
*  Health Promotion. Health promotion, as a strategic component of the health system and as a tool for
policy development, has just been introduced in Argentina. Historically, health promotion has not
been adequately prioritized and the present challenge is to provide effective leadership, policies, and
strategies. This is the case in the area of communicable diseases as well as diseases which are the
result of life-style choices, such as smoking, poor diet, and alcohol abuse. Other problems, such as
the high incidence of traffic accidents which places a significant cost on the health care system and
the need to prevent misuse and overuse of drugs, are also not yet part of society's awareness.
*  Institutional Development. Provincial ministries of health (MoHs) are generally weaker compared to
other areas of the Government. Efficiency, regulatory capacity and quality control have started to
improve. A National quality control program is in place, with the participation of 214 entities, such
as universities, scientific bodies, professional committees and federations. In the early 1990's almost
all hospitals were decentralized to the provinces, leaving 5-10 percent of the national health care
spending is in the hands of the National Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS). The
decentralization process has reduced previous inter-province inequities in health care financing,
providing more resources to provinces which needed the most. The present challenge is to strengthen
the capacity of the National Ministry to fulfill its present role as regulator of the health insurance
system, standards and quality assurance of health care delivery, motivator for compensatory
programs, and leader in disease control and investigation.



Page 4
* Eficiency. The health system in Argentina needs to improve the management capacity of Ministries
of Health, insurance carriers, and public hospitals. Hospital infrastructure needs to be rationalized and
rehabilitated, and cost containment mechanisms need to be further developed, especially at the
provincial level. The regulation of the private sector, which provides a large part of health care, needs
to be updated and enforced.
*   Equity. More than 30 percent of the population relies entirely on the public health sector.
Strengthening the public health services would therefore help to improve the equity of the health
system as well as provide these people with improved access and choice of service.
The Government's strategy to address these issues, which has been under implementation since the early
1990s with Bank and IDB support, includes initiatives to:
> strengthen maternal and child health programs, especially targeted to poor women and children, under
on-going Bank-financed Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Projects I and II;
> improve organization, management, and internal efficiency of selected provincial hospitals under the
on-going Bank-financed Provincial Health Sector Development Project and IDB-financed operations;
> improve and promote the development of primary health care, including the development of family
medicine training and professional track (i.e. through an I.D.B. financed project);
>  restructure, improve equity and open competition in the mandatory union-managed health insurance
providers and improve the services provided to elderly, retired members under the recently completed
Bank-financed Health Insurance Reform Adjustment Loan;
> improve regulation of both the union-run health insurers and the private health sector under the
Health Insurance Reform operation and its accompanying Health Insurance Technical Assistance
Project;
> improve the delivery of public health services, introduction of new provider payment systems
incentives, and improvement of cost-recovery in public hospitals in selected provinces under the on-
going Bank-financed Provincial Reform Adjustment Loans, which are to be extended to other
provinces under proposed additional provincial reform operations;
> introduce health insurance for the poor, under the proposed Health Insurance for the Poor Project
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL);
> control selected infectious diseases, notably HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases, under the
on-going Bank-financed AIDS and STD Control Project, prevent the misuse of drugs under a recently
approved LIL, and control other diseases under the proposed Public Health Surveillance and Disease
Control Project; and
> strengthen public health policy and programs, especially the National Public Health Surveillance
System which is to be supported under the proposed project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project addresses the need to strengthen public health policy and programs. This complements other
efforts to address the quality, equity and efficiency of the delivery and financing of health services which
are the focus of other initiatives under a number of Bank-financed on-going and planned operations. The
focus on public health surveillance and disease control, under this project, constitutes a strong
complement to these other initiatives as well as activities already initiated in the area of prevention and
control of HIV/AIDS.
Public health policy and institutions are not presently fully prepared to meet the challenges of existing and
emerging diseases. The project strategy is to reinforce the basic tools of good public health practice and
focuses on three key issues: Public Health Surveillance, Disease Prevention and Control, and Health
Promotion.
Public Health Surveillance. Surveillance is a critical component of public health policy and practice. It
provides an empirical, scientific foundation for informed decision-making about disease prevention and
control priorities, and it provides a means of monitoring the impact of health interventions and changes in



Page 5
health trends, while ensuring that resources are allocated effectively. This project seeks to strengthen
public health surveillance capacity in Argentina which has some weaknesses in several areas. There is a
need to standardize data collection, investigation, recording and reporting.  Currently, different
jurisdictions follow different procedures and there is little integration between different programs
collecting similar or related data.  The existing data collection system  suffers from  delays and
inaccuracies. For example, in many local districts, data are hand tabulated and transmitted to the province
by mail, fax, or vehicle. Due to the multiple levels and modes of data transmission there are significant
lag times in the reporting system, and accessing or correcting data is difficult. The present challenge is to
improve analytic capability of the epidemiological system and the production of periodic bulletins, as
well as to develop a high level of investigative capacity at both national and provincial levels.
Disease Control and Prevention. The project will address the control of several diseases including
tuberculosis (TB), dengue and nosocomial (hospital-acquired) infections (NI) which pose a serious threat
to public health, as well as other emerging or re-emerging diseases such as hanta virus, WHV/AIDS, and
hemorrhagic dengue, which might appear over the life of the project.
*  In 1997, there were 13,000 new cases of tuberculosis in Argentina. Recently, new factors such as the
AIDS epidemic, increased migration of people from high prevalence areas to peri-urban areas and
multi-drug resistance, contributed to the rise in TB. The challenge is to bring the National
Tuberculosis Control Program up to a level adequate for coping with the seriousness of this situation.
Non-compliance with treatment is around 20 percent, but in some areas of the country it is as high as
40 percent. Although the "direct observed treatment" (DOTS) strategy for TB has proven effective
worldwide, it is not fully implemented in all areas of Argentina. This strategy could significantly
reduce incidence and drug resistance, as well as hospitalizations (often due to non-compliance) and
drug costs.
- The recent emergence of the dengue virus in northern Argentina raises considerable concern about its
potential to spread to other areas of the country infested with the dengue vector (Aedes aegypti),
including Buenos Aires. Since almost all of Argentina's population is susceptible to dengue
infection, there is a serious potential threat of the occurrence of explosive epidemics. The public
health system needs to strengthen its dengue control activities, improve the dengue surveillance
network, and train its health professionals to recognize and respond appropriately to an emerging
dengue epidemic.
* Nosocomial (hospital acquired) infections are a universal public health concern. Between 5 and 10
percent of all hospital patients acquire hospital infections which increase length of stay and associated
costs. Argentina has created standards for dealing with hospital acquired infections, but needs to
establish a countrywide NI control system, and baseline data.
Health Promotion. Health promotion is a broad strategy to improve health expectancy through education,
social mobilization and policy advocacy. This approach to improving health, widely used in OECD
countries to improve health through information and behavioral change, has just been introduced in
Argentina. Its development and implementation will be supported under the project. There is a broad
agenda for health promotion, covering diet and nutrition, abuse of alcohol, smoking and other life-style
related factors. Among these, smoking is among the most serious: between 33% and 37% of people
above 10 years old smoke, and annual consumption per capita in 1995 was 59 packs, of those, 42% are
men and 28% are women.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
2. Strengthening the Public Health  Institution                    42.4        56.5%        26.1         27%
Surveillance System                    Building, Physical
Investment
2. Strengthening Disease Control   Institution                      16.4       21.8%        14.1         27%
Building, Physical
Investment
3. Health Promotion                    Institution                  9.7        12.8%         9.6         18%
Building, Physical
Investment
4. Project Administration              Project                       6.0         7.9%        2.2          4%
Management
Total        74.5        99%          52.0         99%
Front-end fee          0.5         1%           0.5          1%
Total Financing Required          75.0       100%          52.5       100%
Component I: Strengthening the Public Health Surveillance System. This component, to be implemented
nationally and in stages, seeks to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MSAS to make informed
decisions about prevention and control priorities, to better monitor the impact of interventions and
changes in health trends, and allocate resources more effectively. Specifically, it will:
(i)     review  the norms and procedures for surveillance and attempt to standardize case definitions,
reporting procedures and data collection in accordance with the new system design;
(ii)    strengthen human resource capacity at all levels to carry out health surveillance activities in areas
of training including the surveillance of selected communicable diseases, chronic diseases,
behavioral risk factors and injuries (see Annex 14);
(iii)    rehabilitate, expand and upgrade the existing national laboratory network (one laboratory level
III, 36 laboratories level II, and 25 level I) through the provision of technical assistance, the
acquisition of equipment and construction of civil works (See Annex 124;
(iv)    improve quality of the existing health data telecommunications through provision of appropriate
hardware, software, communications equipment and the development of an internet-based
network for data transfer and storage among the federal, provincial and local levels of the public
health system, as well as training and technical assistance to the specialized staff in the laboratory
network and health facilities participating in the surveillance system (see Annexes 2 and 13) and
the establishment of linkages with other relevant health data;
2 Biosafety level I = basic level of containment, appropriate for handling microorganisms that represent little or no risk to humans, animals or the
environment; Biosafety level 2= routine work on human pathogens not thought to be transmitted by the aerosol route. Basic physical precautions
include limited access to the laboratory, biohazard signs posted outside the lab, biosafety manual defining any needed waste decontamination or
medical surveillance policies, and a biological safety cabinet for use whenever agents that may splash or cause aerosols are handled.
Biosafety level 3 = specialized laboratories which allow workers to safely handle more dangerous pathogens. They require all the conditions for
Biosafety level 2, as well as controlled access to the laboratory. Special equipment and procedures to decontaminate all waste, wearing of special
clothing, among others. All work with infectious material is done under a biological safety cabinet, and all waste is disinfected prior to leaving
the lab, usually by an autoclave.



Page 7
(v)    implementation of alternative surveillance methods for specific diseases including a system of
surveillance and control of non-communicable diseases through the provision of technical
assistance and training for MSAS staff in, inter alia, the design of data collection instruments,
questionnaires, scales, sampling methods, record-keeping, and data analysis and collection, and
collection of base-line data on risk factors and behavior (see Annex 2, Tables A and B);
(vi)   evaluation that assesses the capacity of the surveillance system tor monitor each health event,
taking into consideration sensitivity`, specificity4, efficiency, representativeness, timeliness and
flexibility of the system, as well as opportunities for cost-recovery as appropriate and feasible (to
be completed and submitted to the Bank by January 31, 2003);
(vii)  finance an operational research grant program for eligible biomedical research bodies to carry out
research in epidemiological surveillance and disease control; and
(viii)  evaluate effectiveness and relevance of training activities supported by the project.
Component II: Strengthening Disease Control. This component will strengthen the institutional capacity
of participating provinces and the City of Buenos Aires to carry out disease monitoring, control and
prevention. Specifically, it will support:
(i)    tuberculosis control in 10 provinces in the poorest northeast and northwest of the country,
Metropolitan Buenos Aires, and the areas of highest incidence and multi-resistance to therapy;
(ii)    dengue control in high risk populations located in the poor provinces such as, Jujuy, Catamarca,
Tucuman, Salta, among others, through 52 sentinel sites (selected on the basis of risk mapping,
prevalence, vectors density, and population) which will monitor febrile illness including lab
testing of suspected cases, (see Annex 2, Table D) and vector monitoring in areas of high risk
with high levels of vector infestation;
(iii)   nosocomial (hospital acquired) infection control in 100 randomly selected hospitals (80 public
and 20 private) throughout the country, which meet specific selection criteria (see Annex 2, Table
E). This will include support for: a) elaboration of the norms and procedures for NI control; b)
existing infrastructure rehabilitation; c) collection of baseline data on hospital infections; d)
training of professional teams for prevention and control of selected diseases; e) computers and
software for surveillance; f) supervision and technical assistance; and h) vehicles ; and
(iv)    control of emergent and re-emergent diseases which may occur during the life of the project,
through grants to eligible agencies. Criteria are defined in the Operational Manual.
Component III Health Promotion (HP) . This component will strengthen MSAS capacity to carry out a
health promotion strategy through education, social mobilization and policy advocacy. Specifically, it
will support:
(i)    strengthening the institutional capacity of the health promotion unit of the MSAS, through
training, equipment and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure;
(ii)   training of MSAS and HP personnel in media and communications, and training of health
journalists in the areas of disease surveillance and control;
(iii)   eligible subprojects for local institutions and community groups to set up or strengthen disease
prevention and health promotion within their communities (eligibility criteria and application
procedures are described in the Operational Manual);
(iv)    dissemination of project objectives and activities through regular newsletters directed at the
public health community and through workshops, conferences and technical meetings for
stakeholders such as politicians, government officials, the medical and private insurance
community and others;
(v)    over the life of the project, meetings at least on a quarterly basis with a committee of political and
social leaders, including health journalists, to define a strategy and action plan to help ensure
sustainability of the project;
3 Sensitivity is the proportion of persons with a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance system.
4 Specificity is the proportion of persons without a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance system.



Page 8
(vi)   a media campaign against tobacco addiction to be designed and implemented on the basis of a
risk factors survey; and
(vii)  implementation of a plan to include private corporations in a partnership with the MSAS to
combat tobacco addiction in the employees of such corporations.
Component IV: Project Administration. The project will help finance the administrative and operating
costs of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) over a four year period. This includes: (i) salaries for PCU
technical and managerial staff, excluding the remuneration of the core technical team within MSAS; (ii)
domestic and international travel and per diem for PCU staff, (iii) training of PCU staff; and (iv)
equipment, materials and office supplies.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will help the GoA enhance the provision of currently under-funded public goods, in
particular, disease surveillance, communicable and non-communicable disease control, and health
promotion. It focuses on strengthening relevant institutional capacity at all levels and on improving
quality and cost-efficiency in the health sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
Local, provincial and federal health agencies are the direct beneficiaries of the project, but the whole
population of Argentina will benefit from a strengthened system of public health surveillance and disease
control.
With the expected increase in institutional capacity, it is anticipated that the project will result in reduced
disease burden, particularly for TB, dengue and hospital infections. The benefits will thus be reduced loss
of disability. Most of these benefits will accrue to the poor since they are the population most affected by
communicable diseases. When one looks at the burden of disease in terms of life lost due to premature
death, evidence shows that the poor die earlier and they are disproportionately stricken by largely
preventable communicable diseases. In fact, there is negative association between per capita household
income and the years of life lost per 100,000 population due to syphilis (-0.361), diarrhea (-0.455),
tetanus (-0.455), and tuberculosis (-0.361).
Furthermore, non-compliance with tuberculosis treatment and consequently multi-resistance to TB drugs
is higher in the poor population due to less access to care and information, and educational background.
Risk factors associated with dengue transmission are strongly related to poor household conditions such
as lack of sanitary infrastructure, unplanned urbanization and family socioeconomic level. Higher
incidence rates occur more in areas with higher poverty rates as defined by the NBI (Unsatisfied Basic
Needs) such as the provinces of Jujuy, Formosa, Chaco, Salta, Corrientes, and Tucuman, among others.
The general population will also benefit from the health promotion activities initiated under the project on
the abuse of tobacco. It is estimated that smoking is associated in 20 percent of the most common causes
of death in Argentina. Consumption per capita in 1995 was 59 packs annually. Data on tobacco addition
and impact on health is weak. So, a tobacco campaign will be designed after the results of the risk factor
survey, which will defined more precisely the intended target population for this part of the project. It is
expected that the target population will be the 25 to 40 year old group and in the middle to middle-low
socio-economic segment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a. Executing agencies: Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS)
b. Project management: Project Coordination Unit (PCU)



Page 9
The MSAS will be responsible for overall project implementation and administration, and will execute all
project activities except the ones executed as individual subprojects (operational research, health
promotion, dengue control, and control of other emergent diseases). Universities and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) accredited by the MSAS would be executing agencies for these subprojects.
At negotiations it was agreed that a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established and staffed by
a new resolution of the MSAS, as a condition of effectiveness. The MSAS will appoint and maintain
during the execution of the project, core technical personnel in adequate numbers and with functions,
responsibilities, qualifications and experience as may be required for the proper implementation of the
project. It was also agreed that key staff for the PCU would include a project coordinator, a general
manager, a technical manager for each component and an administrative supervisor, who would be
appointed and in place by loan effectiveness. The project coordinator would be responsible for the
interaction with the MSAS, and it was agreed that the PCU would meet on a monthly basis, or more often
if necessary, with the project-related areas of the MSAS, the Epidemiology Unit, and the national
reference laboratory (ANLIS). Terms of Reference for each managerial position were agreed at
negotiations. The PCU would be assisted by (i) a full time high level technician who will coordinate and
supervise project implementation in the provinces with more project activities, and (ii) amultiskilled team
that will monitor project implementation. The full time technician should be a public health specialist or
epidemiologist and will be paid by the MoHs.
The PCU will: (i) promote the project in provinces and municipalities; (ii) ensure coordination between
the project, MSAS, and ANLIS; (iii) maintain project records and prepare regular implementation reports;
(iv) prepare terms of reference (ToRs) for consultants who will assist in implementing the project
components and supervise their work; (v) coordinate the processing (identification, preparation, appraisal,
approval and supervision) of subprojects presented by the beneficiaries, ensuring compliance with the
Operational Manual; (vi) ensure that executing agencies comply with Bank procurement guidelines; (vii)
undertake the financial management of the project; (viii) operate a management information system
(MIS) to track project processing; (ix) ensure the auditing of project accounts and other audits required by
the Bank; (x) coordinate Bank supervision missions, and carry out the mid-term review of the project; (xi)
organize the evaluation of the project's impact using monitoring indicators, analysis and other appropriate
methodology; (xii) accredit, hire, and manage universities, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
to carry out subprojects; and (xiii) select and manage independent consulting firms to carry out an ex-post
impact evaluation of a sample of subprojects. The MSAS will execute all project activities except the
ones targeted by the subprojects (operational research, health promotion, dengue control and control of
other emergent diseases).
An external advisory board for the project (comprised of public health academicians and practitioners,
provincial public health specialists, government officials, representatives from Agriculture, Finance,
Tourism and other social sectors, and representatives of professional organizations) will advise on
technical aspects of the project and will promote intersectoral cooperation. At negotiations it was agreed
that the external advisory board will be established within six months after loan effectiveness.
The Operational Manual. The PCU prepared an Operational Manual (OM) which was brought to
negotiations, providing detailed criteria and terms of reference for project implementation arrangements,
including requirements and procedures for subproject proposals concerning, inter alia, proper health
protocols, infrastructure and staffing, training plans, financing of recurrent costs, sustainability, and
measures to ensure that the environment will not be negatively affected. During negotiations, the final
draft was agreed, and the final version will be submitted to the Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness.
Financial Arrangements: A Financial Management Specialist has reviewed the financial management
system for this project. The review, which included visits to the central unit in the MSAS, which is
administering other Bank-financed projects, concluded that it has an adequate accounting system,
financial reporting systems and segregation of duties to ensure the provision of accurate and timely



Page 10
information regarding project resources and expenditures. However, at present this system is not
sufficient to be able to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status
of the projects "Project Management Reports"(PMR) as newly required by the Bank under the LACI
system for PMR-Based disbursements. An action plan was prepared and it was agreed with the central
unit's Finance and Administration Manager that the system will be implemented six months after loan
effectiveness (for further detail see the document in the project files).
To facilitate the disbursement of funds, the GoA will establish a Special Account (SA) in the Banco de la
Naci6n Argentina, to be operated by the PCU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. When
the project is considered LACI compliant and ready for PMR disbursements, the special account will be
replenished based on the PMRs submitted by the PCU, after certification by an auditor. The initial
disbursement will be based on the first six-month expenditure forecast for the first year of the proJect.
Until the project's financial management arrangements allow for PMR disbursements, to facilitate
disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Bank would, upon request, make an authorized allocation
of US$3.7 million to the SA for all expenditures. Replenishment of the SA would follow Bank
procedures. The PCU would submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis, or when about 33
percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first. The replenishment applications
would be supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation of the SA against the Bank's
records. The minimum amount for application for direct payment and for special commitment would be
20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA.
The project would be audited annually, including a review of procurement by an independent auditing
agency acceptable to the Bank. An independent agency or specialized consultants' services would be
procured by December 31, 1999 and the procurement and financial audit would be carried out by June 30
of each year.
Procurement. Procurement activities will be carried out by an already-existing central unit in the MSAS
headed by a Senior Procurement Officer and four full-time Procurement Officers (three of whom have
attended the Bank's Procurement seminar), and administrative support staff. In addition, one full time
procurement proficient staff member of the MSAS will work in the PCU to coordinate technical
assistance components. An assessment of this unit's capacity to implement project procurement was
carried out by a procurement specialist. There are no major issues raised in the referred assessment. The
overall risk assessment was rated "average" (for further detail see the document in the project files).
Monitoring: The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring and evaluation. It would use
performance indicators, detailed in Annex 1. At negotiations, it was agreed that progress reports,
including monitoring indicators, would be sent by the PCU to the Bank every six months (by March 1 and
September 1 each year). Technical supervision of subprojects will be carried out by the MSAS, supported
by the PCU staff and consultants, when necessary. Monitoring indicators were agreed at negotiations, and
a Supplemental Letter detailing them will be signed at the time of signing.
Institutional framework and flow of funds: The PCU would enter into three types of framework
agreements. Provincial Participation Agreements (Convenios de Participacidn y Adhesi6n al Proyecto)
are entered into between the Borrower (represented by the MSAS) and the participating provinces
(represented by Provincial Governors) selected by the MSAS to participate in the project in accordance
with criteria and procedures described in the OM.
Municipal Participation Agreements (Convenios Municipales de Participacion y Adhesion al Proyecto)
are entered into between the Borrower (represented by the MSAS), participating provinces, and
participating municipalities selected by the MSAS to participate in the project in accordance with criteria
and procedures described in the OM.
Implementation Agreements (Convenios de Ejecuci6n/Cartas Complementarias) are entered into between



Page II
the PCU and a beneficiary (hospital, health center, NGO, among others) for the execution of a subproject
selected and approved in accordance with criteria and procedures detailed in the OM.
Loan funds will not be transferred to the participating provinces. All procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services financed under the loan will be centralized and carried out by the central unit, as
noted above. Participating provinces will receive goods, works and services financed under the loan as
non-reimbursable contributions and are not providing any counterpart contribution from their respective
budgets.
Subprojects: Loan proceeds will be allocated for the implementation of subprojects including consultants'
services, training, and goods for subprojects under the following-components: (i) Health Promotion; (ii)
Operational Research; and (iii) Disease Control Activities. Health promotion activities would be
administered by the Coordinator of Component III, and his/her team. Operational Research activities
would be managed by the Coordinator of Component I and his/her team, and the actions related to disease
control would be handled by the Coordinator of Component II.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Flexible Project Design versus Rigid Structure. One alternative design for the project would have been to
support a federal, fully-detailed and standardized national surveillance system. However this was rejected
as too rigid an approach, given the specific needs and capacities of different provinces. In addition, local
needs are often unrecognized at the central level, so a top-down approach would weaken local ownership
since provinces and municipalities would not have the opportunity to articulate their needs as they
perceive them. On the other hand, a national surveillance system does require an overall conceptual
framework and standardization of data collection, laboratory procedures, case-definitions, and basic
norms to be followed by all participants in the system. Therefore, the project is partly pre-determined (all
of Component I, and parts of Components II and III) and partly to be designed as part of project
implementation on the basis of subprojects to be presented by provinces and municipalities (other parts of
Components II and III). Components II and III involving vector control, health education and prevention
measures, are better suited to a targeted approach since disease patterns and institutional capacity vary
across the different regions affected. A targeted approach is more cost effective and efficient in this
situation of heterogeneous capabilities. Thus, the selected alternative balances the need for national
consistency with the opportunity to respond to local needs and targeting of interventions.
Comprehensive versus Focused.  A strategic choice was made to limit the number of diseases to be
tracked. The 50 health conditions originally targeted for surveillance was not a realistic objective. Based
on the economic analysis, 29 of these 50 conditions were selected for notification and four for sentinel
surveillance. These include the diseases under international regulation and the diseases for which control
is most cost-effective. The surveillance system will also rely on alternative surveillance methods such as
sentinel sites. These sites will be implemented gradually (see Annex 2, Tables A & B).
Phasing by region or disease versus phasing by activity.  A number of alternatives were assessed in
terms of how the project could be implemented given the complexity and scope of the system (even after
reducing the number of diseases) and differing capacities and needs at the provincial and local levels.
Two options considered were to phase project activities either by geographic area or by disease. The first
idea, dividing the project by geographic area, was rejected by the provinces since none were willing to
wait. The second idea, implementing the project for a few diseases at a time, was also rejected on
technical and practical grounds since phasing by disease would require a costly duplication of training
efforts, standardization procedures, and many other activities related to the implementation of the
surveillance system. Instead, a third option was selected. It was decided to go forward with the full
number of 29 diseases in all the provinces but to introduce gradually certain project activities, (such as the
chronic disease surveillance system, the sentinel networks for dengue control and injuries, the
telecommunications system, and the training program).



Page 12
Communicable versus Non-Communicable, or Both. A choice was also made with respect to how to treat
non-communicable diseases, recognizing that in Argentina these diseases are of increasing importance.
One option would be for the project to address only communicable diseases, but with an aging and
increasingly urban population, Argentina is rapidly coming to the point where chronic diseases and
diseases related to lifestyle will cause the most mortality and morbidity. Understanding current disease
patterns and related behaviors in Argentina and the long term monitoring of changes in these patterns and
behaviors over time is critical to effective planning and execution of appropriate public health
interventions. Without adequate training, Argentina appears to be poorly equipped to mount any
concerted public health response to these emerging chronic disease problems. Therefore, an incremental,
strategic approach to chronic disease surveillance and associated risk factors is needed. The prolect will
begin by setting priorities in chronic disease control, determining staffing needs and implemeinting an
appropriate training program. The chronic disease and risk factors surveillance system will then be
implemented in the third year of the project.
Private versus Public Intervention. Health surveillance and communicable disease control are public
goods and are a core area of responsibility of the MSAS and/or its provincial counterparts (MoHs).
Nevertheless, there may be ways in which private health insurers could become partners in the system and
contribute through cost-recovery. Clearly, health insurance providers have a vested interest in seeing that
disease incidence is reduced through surveillance, control and public health programs, and may be willing
to pay for these services, through contributions or levies on insurance premiums. Health insurance
providers could be contracted to provide certain services. Although options for private participation were
considered, they were rejected for the time being as premature given the early stage of implementation of
reform of the union-run health insurance providers and regulation of private health insurance, as well as
the need to demonstrate results before imposing cost-recovery. Nevertheless, private hospitals and other
private health agencies would be eligible to participate in and benefit from several project activities and
public-private partnerships are to be created under the Health Promotion component.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Bank Financed   ___ _  _  _ _ _   _ _ _         ~Implementation    DZevelopment
Progress (lP)    Objective (DO)
Health Insurance        .  Health Insurance Reform (PROS), Ln.        HS               S
4002/3-AR
.  Health Insurance TA, Ln. 4004-AR           S               S
Health Care Delivery    .  Provincial Health Sector Development        S               S
(PRESSAL), Ln. 3931 -AR
Public Health           .  Maternal and Child Health and              HS              HS
Nutrition I (PROMIN), Ln. 3643-AR
.  Maternal and Child Health and              S               S
Nutrition II (PROMIN2), Ln. 4164-AR
.  AIDS and STD Control (LUSIDA), Ln.         S               S
4168-AR
a  Integrated Drug Prevention (not yet
effective)                         .



Page 13
Other development
agencies
IDB                     .  Modernization and Reform of Primary
Health Care
UNDP                    .  Support to Health Insurance Reform
and to provincial Health Sector Dev.
PAHO                    .  Health Systems Development
GTZ                     .  AIDS prevention in 4 municipalities of
the Buenos Aires metropolitan area
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has not yet gained any specific lessons from similar Bank-financed experiences, since this is
only the second project of its kind in the Bank, the first being the Brazil VIGISUS Project (Ln. 4394-BR).
However, some lessons from related projects may be applied to this project:
t  Brazil: Amazon Basin Malaria Control  (PCM4M) and Northeast Endemic Disease Control
(PCDEN) Projects. The ICRs for these projects suggest that disease control projects should: (i)
consider defining broader objectives, e.g. combining support for malaria control with control of other
communicable diseases; (ii) include demand-driven components to finance state and municipal
communicable disease control subprojects; and (iii) provide technical assistance to strengthen the
capacity of weaker states and municipalities. PCMAM and PCDEN also taught us that training and
other forms of institutional strengthening should be implemented at least at the same pace as
investments in civil works and equipment. This has been taken into account in the project design.
>  Peru. The Social Development and Compensation Fund Project (FONCODES). Some relevant
lessons from this project include: (i) independent ex-post evaluation of samples of completed
subprojects were valuable in assessing performance and impact; (ii) educating beneficiaries
concerning their role in the project and the use of services offered by the project should be
emphasized; (iii) training in the operation and maintenance of completed projects should be
systematized; and (iv) selecting appropriate performance indicators at the outset of the project, with
an adequate monitoring and evaluation system is important.
>  Argentina: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition I and II (PROMIN). These projects have been
successful in reaching poor communities and involving them despite varying levels of institutional
capacity. In the two projects, provinces manage subprojects at the municipal level through provincial
implementation units while an overall project coordinating unit (PCU) at the central level coordinates
project implementation. While the proposed project does not have decentralized execution such as
PROMIN, the central PCU will be assisted by a high level technician, who will coordinate project
implementation at the provincial level. The PROMIN experience demonstrates that not every
municipality can be expected to have the capacity to prepare subprojects effectively. The proposed
project will therefore provide technical assistance to weaker municipalities through the PCU, when
necessary.
Lessons from international experience have also been tapped for this project:
> Institutions in other sectors, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of
Finance and others should be actively involved in strengthening the surveillance system. Extensive



Page 14
project promotion was carried out during preparation and a project steering committee, with
representatives from these and other ministries, has been suggested by the Bank as a way of ensuring
continuing inter-ministerial cooperation.
> International experience has shown that early involvement of senior officials from the MSAS ensures
national ownership of the national surveillance system. In the preparation of the proposed project, the
National Epidemiology Unit, the provincial epidemiologists and health officials and the National
Commission of Epidemiology were all involved in the assessment of the current surveillance system.
It has been agreed that formal assessments will be carried out on a regular basis involving the MoHs
and international partners.
>  A review of international experience in surveillance shows that surveillance systems are often overly
ambitious, unrealistic and beyond local capacity. Often, too many diseases are included and
institutions are subsequently overloaded with responsibilities that cannot be fulfilled. For the
proposed project, an economic analysis was carried out to help establish surveillance priorities and
appropriate methods, which found that the current system covers an impractical 50 conditions. Of
these, 29 were selected for surveillance based on their epidemiological significance and relative cost-
effectiveness of intervention. Four of the 29 were selected for surveillance by alternative methods,
such as sentinel surveillance. The remainder will use traditional surveillance methods (notifiable
conditions).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
>  The MSAS has taken the lead in project identification and preparation. The MSAS defined
surveillance as a priority issue to be addressed by Mercosur countries and agreed in the last Mercosur
Health Ministers' meeting (November, 1998) to participate in a regional surveillance network. The
project will support some of these regional activities.
>  In November 1998, the MSAS participated in a Surveillance Workshop in Iguacu, Brazil (organized
by LCSHD in conjunction with Brazilian counterparts) and presented this project (VIGI-A).
> The MSAS has formally requested Government support to hire additional personnel at the central
level to carry out new surveillance activities. Provincial Health Ministries and representatives of the
provinces on the National Surveillance Committee have been actively involved in the development of
the project proposal. No major decision concerning the design of the surveillance system has been
made without their participation and consent.
>  A Letter of Sector Policy was prepared and agreed upon at negotiations. The final signed version will
be submitted to the Bank prior to Board presentation.
>  Finally, the MSASNIGI-A team has started some project activities, specifically, revision of norms
and procedures of the Public Health Surveillance System. The review of those norms and procedures
should be completed prior to loan effectiveness and discussed with the Bank during project launch.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
While the Bank has little prior experience with free-standing projects to strengthen national surveillance
systems, it does have considerable experience, in many countries, financing a variety of communicable
disease projects. Most of these have included support for strengthening specific surveillance activities
(examples in LAC include projects in endemic disease control and AIDS/STD control in Venezuela,
Argentina, and Brazil). The Bank supports other projects, such as the Health Sector Reform Project in
Egypt and the VIGISUS Project in Brazil, which include health surveillance activities.



Page 15
Complementing this is the Bank's ability to tap international experience. The Bank has an ongoing
partnership with the U.S. Centers for the Disease Control (CDC) and WHO/PAHO, which have often
provided technical support in the preparation and appraisal of Bank-financed health projects and
contributed to this proposed project.
We can also establish within Argentina the complementarity needed between reforms in areas of health
service delivery and financing, being supported by other Bank-financed projects, with a focus on public
health policy and practice.
The Bank has been effective in Argentina in developing capacity for monitoring and evaluation, targeting
the poor, and involving local community groups. This has proven to be particularly useful in other social
sector programs, notably the Participatory Social Investment Fund (FOPAR), the system for the
evaluation of social programs (SIEMPRO), the temporary public works employment program
(TRABAJAR), the AIDS and STD Control Project, and the recently approved Drug Prevention LIL.
Finally, the Bank can use its knowledge base and established contacts with the provinces, built up over
the years under operations such as Provincial Development I and II Projects and the Provincial Reforrn
Adjustment operations, to facilitate implementation and coordination at the provincial level.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
There is a clear albeit slightly different economic justification and role for the state in each of the three
components of the project. The first component, health surveillance, exhibits public good characteristics.
It may, however, be possible over time to engage private health insurers in a more active participation in
surveillance activities (especially for communicable diseases): the data they collect to monitor their risk
pool may be usefully fed into the public health surveillance system. The second component, disease
control, is justified because: (i) many of the instruments that are used are almost pure public goods (e.g.,
vector control); and (ii) social benefits are higher than private benefits because of the existence of positive
externalities: treatment of infectious cases confers benefits in addition to the benefit gained by the treated
patient. Both of these components can be economically justified on the grounds of the savings generated
by the avoidance of disease burdens as demonstrated below. The third component, health promotion,
addresses the issue of under-provision of information - information is under-provided to the extent that
there are no associated marketable products. It too can be economically justified as effective promotion
activities which can be shown to avoid health risks in the future. In addition to improving efficiency, the
project will improve equity, insofar as infectious diseases disproportionately affect the poor.
To establish priorities and to address the issue of cost-utility of the proposed interventions on which the
economic justification of the surveillance system and control activities (combined 79 percent of project
costs) is based, a quantitative analysis was carried out to help determine the optimal scope of surveillance
and disease control. The establishment of priorities and final recommendations as to inclusion of each
disease in the surveillance system were based on several criteria: (i) disease impact on the national
population in DALY's; (ii) approximate cost-utility of control interventions; (iii) outbreak potential (or
emergent disease); (iv) plan or potential for eradication; (v) vaccine-preventability; (vi) being an indicator
or risk factor for an important disease; and (vii) the probability that improved surveillance information
would lead to better control (i.e. reduced impact) of the disease. This analysis was undertaken early on
and had a considerable impact on the design of the surveillance system, both as to scope and method.
From the original list of 50 notifiable health conditions targeted for surveillance, (too many for an
efficient surveillance system) 29 were selected for notification and four were chosen to be surveyed by
alternative surveillance methods such as sentinel sites.
Disease Control Component. An attempt has been made to quantify the benefits of the disease control
component as this is expected to have a direct impact on disease incidence. This component accounts for
22 percent of total project costs. The results of this analysis, however, are only illustrative as there are



Page 16
serious deficiencies in relevant data in Argentina on costs and disease incidents, particularly for emerging
diseases such as dengue.
During appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out for three diseases: (i) tuberculosis; (ii) dengue;
and (iii) nosocomial (hospital acquired) infections.
Tubercolosis. In 1997 there were 13,000 new cases of Tuberculosis. Without the project the
incidence of TB is expected to grow by 2 percent per year until 2010. If the project is successful
in achieving its goal of reducing the incidence of the disease by 15 percent, and assuming that (i)
5 percent of new cases are hospitalized, (ii) each hospitalization lasts on average 35 days at a
daily cost of US$15, (iii) the daily income lost for disability is US$7, and (iv) that a TB episode
lasts for 548 days, the undiscounted 10 year benefit of the project is US$12.2 million.5
Dengue. Assuming (i) a conservative per capita cost of US$80 of a serious dengue outbreak6
including reduction of the number of tourists in the country; (ii) a probability of such outbreak
occurring of 0.5 percent annually, and (iii) the impact of the project lasting until 2010, the
expected value of the cost of dengue is US$13.9 million in the first year, and US$256 million
(undiscounted) over the period from 2001 to 2010. As the objective of the project is to reduce the
probability of an epidemic, the benefit of the project is assumed to be the savings in the potential
costs of the epidemic arising from a reduction in the probability of the outbreak. If the project is
to reduce the probability of a dengue epidemic by half then the undiscounted 10-year benefit of
this component would be about US$128 million.
Hospital Infections. The project is expected to reduce infections acquired during hospitalization
by an average of 13 percent for the three most prevalent infections in 100 hospitals by the end of
the project. The projected incremental inpatient costs associated with acquired infections in the
first year for all hospitals in Argentina is US$1.3 million. This accumulates to US$28.4 million
by 2010. With the project intervention, the cost savings is expected to be US$0.042 million in the
first year, accumulating to US$1.9 million (undiscounted) by 2010 (see Annex 4, table 3, 4, &
5)7
Overall
Intervention                                    Undiscounted 10 Year Benefit from 2001 to 2010
Dengue Management                                              $127.8 million
Tuberculosis                                                   $12.2 million
Hospital Acquired Infections                                    $1.9 million
Total                                                          $141.9 million
The economic analysis of the disease control component-under assumptions that should be considered
very rough and approximate-shows that this component alone yields very substantial benefits, enough to
justify the whole project. Assuming that costs are incurred at the inception of the project, while benefits
sThe benefits are the savings associated with reducing the number of tuberculosis cases. The costs include only hospitalization
costs and lost wages due to morbidity.
6 In the absence of data for Argentina, data from Puerto Rico and Cuba were used to develop a range of potential costs of a
dengue epidemic in Argentina.
7The benefit of the project in this case is assumed to be limited only to the reduction in hospitalizations costs (ignoring wages,
morbidity, mortality, etc).



Page 17
only start at the third year of implementation, the intemnal rate of return for the disease control component
is estimated to be 63 percent. Even under the extreme hypothesis that the other project components yield
no benefits, the internal rate of return for the whole project-with a cost of US$75 million-would be 15
percent.
Disease Surveillance. In addition to an expected reduction in morbidity and mortality, which are not
quantifiable at this point, the strengthening of the surveillance system would have some non-additive
benefits. It would impact the epidemiological pattern of infectious diseases because it would increase the
sensitivity of disease detection, quicken the detection and shorten response lags, leading to a lower
number of serious cases requiring hospitalization.  In the short run, a more effective system  of
surveillance is expected to result in an increase in reported cases and a rise in disease incidence.
However, this effect should be mitigated over time, as the impact of better reporting is outweighed by
improved detection, more rapid treatment and lower costs.
Health Promotion/Tobacco Control. No attempt has been made to quantify the impact of strengthened
health promotion activities, particularly with regard to curbing tobacco use. Nevertheless, the experience
of other countries indicates that this is a worthwhile proposition. At present, tobacco addiction is very
serious in Argentina: about 35 percent of people age 10 and older smoke. The addiction is higher among
men than women: 42 percent of men 10 and older are smokers while this rate is considerable lower at 28
percent among women in the same age group. The estimated per capita consumption is 59 packs per year
in 1995, and it is estimated that smoking is associated with 20 percent of the most common mortality
causes in Argentina. Though mortality data are not available for Argentina, in Latin America smoking is
responsible for an estimated 150,000 deaths per year. The project would support a risk factors survey to
improve the understanding of the current pattern of tobacco consumption, and would support a media
campaign against tobacco addiction. A reduction in smoking would reduce illness and the associated
losses in productivity, decrease the costs of health insurance and would have several positive externalities
for the society as a whole, including reduction in passive smoking and a cleaner environment.
Other Project Benefits. The estimate of the internal rate of return in the previous section is by nature
conservative, and can be considered a lower estimate for the true project economic rate of return, since
many pecuniary and non-pecuniary benefits are not included. Among other benefits associated with the
project are:
- The reduction of morbidity would increase productivity by reducing absenteeism by illness of the
employer or need to care for sick family members.
* A more efficient information system would produce savings by reducing duplication and
simplifying procedures. Timely data would also improve priority setting, and the planning and
allocation of resources.
* An increase in the incidence of epidemic diseases would have a negative impact on tourism sector
and related business activities. Though the reduction of epidemic disease will not have a
symmetric positive impact in terns of magnitude, minimizing the losses for the economy can be
viewed as a benefit in itself.
* In addition to the positive externalities for the family, for which having a member sick imposes a
burden, the whole society is better off from disease reduction, since people enjoy living in a
healthier society.
* The benefits of an efficient surveillance system go beyond the Argentina borders. Earlier
detection and control of disease and rapid information exchange would also benefit neighboring
countries, reducing imported diseases and limiting the spread of outbreaks.



Page 1 8
Poverty and Targeting Aspects. The poor would benefit disproportionately from better disease control
and early epidemic response, since the incidence of communicable diseases among the poor is
disproportionately higher than among the better-off groups. The poor tend not to use the health care
system. When they do, treatment compliance is often weak, which leads to dramatic lhealth outcomes such
as multi-drug resistance. The project, by establishing a system thaL uses individual surveillance mnethods
and direct observation treatment, would increase the likelihood of cure among the poor. Tobacco control
activities would also benefit disproportionately the poor, if Argentina is like other countries., where
smoking rates are higher among the worse-off groups. The loss of wages caused by disease is also very
likely to be higher among the poor, who often have jobs in the informal sector, where there is no
insurance for days of work lost.
Full Evaluation to be Completed During Implementation. The economic analysis summarized above is
characterized by assumptions and estimates that indicate the type of data required to fully understand the
economic characteristics of the activities to be financed under this project. The analysis is incomplete in
that benefits of the training activities, and the data management telecommunications, are not valuedi at all.
During project implementation, a full economic evaluation of the system would be undertaken to better
understand the costs and benefits of the project, both for further work in this area and to make choices
during implementation. A more complete understanding of the costs and benefits of disease surveillance,
control and health promotion will moreover contribute to assuring that these programs are adequately
reflected in public expenditure choices which have to be made to sustain the program.
This evaluation will include (i) an assessment of the capacity of the system to monitor each healtlh event
and (ii) a cost-benefit analysis. The cost-benefit analysis would focus on the estimate of the pecuniary
benefits, namely (i) productivity gains arising from lower morbidity, (ii) econornic savings from lower
mortality, (iii) savings on hospital costs, (iv) savings on direct costs associated with the disease (lost
wages, transportation, medical fees, and drugs), and measuring the beneflts associated with training and
better information systems.
2. Financial: The project's fiscal impact has been analyzed from two different perspectives. The first is
the question of whether or not Argentina has been investing sufficiently in preventative rather than
curative health programs. Given the fact that total expenditures on health in Argentina are relatively high
(some seven to ten percent of GDP), and in light of its present level of income, one would have expected
that public health programs would be at adequate levels. However, that is apparently not the case. An
assessment of the surveillance system (Annex 11) and country comparison analysis5 lead us to con:clude
that Argentina has been investing too little in this area. This can be seern by looking the table below.
Indicator                      Argentina                       Portugal
PNB/Capita                                US$8,030                       US 9,740
Population                               34.7 million                    9.9 million
Size of Central Epidemiological               10                             80
Unit (Human Resources)
Regional Surveillance Network                No                             Yes
Laboratory Network connected by              No                             Y{es
Internet
Telecommunications Network for               No                             Yes
Surveillance
8 There are some constraints on country comparison, such as different epidemiological pattem. However, if we take into
consideration that Portugal is much smaller in size and population, we believe that potential differences in disease patterns will
not impact the conclusions.



Page I9
The second way of looking at the project's financial impact is to assess its impact on the present budget of
the Ministry of Health and Social Action. The recurrent costs implications (see Annex 4) are estimated to
be about $400,000 in year 2000, peaking during the first year of post-project operation at $3.3 million.
This represents 0.6 percent of the federal health budget (which will be on the order of $574 million per
annum, in 2005); and only 0.1 percent of consolidated provincial public health spending (which is on the
order of $4.4 billion per annum). A further assessment of the risks of ensuring adequate recurrent
financing by the GoA for the project's operation is made in the section on sustainability and in Annex 4.
Despite this very small fiscal impact, the difficulties facing Argentina in terms of achieving a fiscal
balance make any change in historical spending patterns a challenge for public authorities and one that
needs to be assessed in the context of competing demands for public services. Clearly, a solid case for
correcting the lack of investment in the past can and should be made, especially if the project is able to
demonstrate quantifiable benefits for the health system as a whole as part of the full evaluation to be
carried out during project implementation. Moreover, the Government is committed to providing this
level of funding and it is expected that provincial govemments will be responsible for, and are committed
to the recurrent costs of project, including meeting identified needs for personnel.
3. Technical:
The project's technical dimensions are based on system assessment, laboratory infrastructure assessment,
standard medical and health protocols, and experience from other countries. These assessments were
made with the support of experts from the US Center for Disease Control and WHO/PAHO.
The protocols used for prevention and control of the health conditions to be addressed under Component
II were agreed during appraisal. The tuberculosis protocol is consistent with recommendations made by
an evaluation performed by PAHO/WHO in late 1997 and subsequent PAHO technical missions in 1998.
Dengue control activities also meet PAHO guidelines for the region, and hospital infection activities are
also in line with international experience and national guidelines. Participating public and private
hospitals are expected to follow these same guidelines.
Specific activities for control of dengue and other emergent diseases, as well as health education and
promotion will be executed through subprojects to be presented by provinces and municipalities, and
eventually other organizations. To ensure that these sub-projects fit into the overall objectives of the
project, are properly targeted and are technically viable, they will be prepared and evaluated on the basis
of eligibility and evaluation criteria specified in the Operational Manual which adequately addresses the
relevant technical considerations.
An extensive training program has been defined to meet the needs of the future system (see Annex 14). A
revision, with collaboration from international experts, of the norms and procedures of the system will be
carried out according to the design and objectives of the new system. The system will be periodically
assessed and adjustments will be made to meet changing needs. It was agreed at negotiations that the
review would be completed and the results furnished to the Bank as an additional condition for
effectiveness.
In terms of information technology, it was determined that the Internet/World Wide Web would provide
the best communication backbone for the project's communication systems since changes in software can
be made centrally and distributed automatically to field users. The communications system will: promote
standardization of data and data collection forms (which does not happen now); standardize the user
interface with the Internet browser; simplify training of field staff; allow centralization of most hardware
and software support and maintenance; require only a computer, Internet connection and browser for the
user; and improve data quality by reducing the likelihood of duplicate entry of both patient level and
summary case count data (see Annex 13).



Page 20
4. Institutional:
a. Executing Agencies: Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS), provincial health ministries, public
and private hospitals and other agencies.
Surveillance capacity, including physical infrastructure and personnel is highly variable across the
country. Skills and personnel needs assessments were undertaken by the project team, provincial health
officials, and Bank missions. The human resource capacity at the central and provincial levels is
currently assessed as below the level needed to effectively implement the project. While the MSAS and
some provincial MoHs are satisfactorily managing Bank projects, such as the AIDS and STD Control
Project, the Maternal Child Health and Nutrition I and II Projects and the Provincial Health Project, others
are in need of strengthening which may be addressed by the proposed project.
At the central level, the staff and equipment of the national epidemiology unit are limited. Its needs have
been identified and it has been agreed that the project will finance, on a declining basis, the salaries of the
new personnel. The number, skills, tasks and responsibilities for these new staff have been agreed (see
Annex 2).
A careful assessment of the training needs was carried out with the participation of the provinces. To
strengthen the skills of the existing provincial staff and also to supervise project activities, the project will
fund 45 trainers/supervisors, one per jurisdiction. These key personnel will be trained in the first year of
the project. By the last year of the project, thirty of these personnel will be funded directly by the
provinces, and the other fifteen will be supported by the project in areas with scarcer resources and high
incidence and prevalence of diseases. Each participating province will be responsible for, and is
committed to, meeting the identified needs for personnel in its jurisdiction.
The NGOs and other agencies to be selected to execute sub-projects will be assessed, anong other
characteristics, on their institutional capacities. Technical assistance will be provided under the project to
help: (i) improve preparation of subprojects; and (ii) train the beneficiaries in subproject preparation,
appraisal, supervision and procurement.
More generally, the surveillance system will be implemented in a gradual fashion to take into account the
highly variable and in some cases weak capacities. The development of chronic disease and risk factor
surveillance will also be implemented gradually giving priority to training and the process of setting
priorities in chronic diseases (see Annex 12).
b. Project Management: The PCU would be created by a new resolution of MSAS as a condition of loan
effectiveness. The key staff to be hired for the PCU would include a project coordinator, a general
manager, a technical manager for each component and an administrative supervisor, with terms of
reference and experience acceptable to the Bank. The unit in charge of procurement implementation is an
existing decentralized part of the MSAS set up especially to unify administration of externally financed
projects. This agency is familiar with Bank procedures and already manages procurement for three
projects. Recent improvements have been made to this unit as a result of a procurement audit of the on-
going Provincial Health Sector Development Project.



Page 21
5. Social:
The project was designed with active participation and consultation with the main stakeholders, notably
the central and provincial health ministries as well as other professional organizations and private health
parties. Provincial health officials were fully engaged in project preparation and participated in the
decision-making process. During implementation, the project will sponsor a number of promotion
activities for the participation of multiple stakeholders, such as the private sector, insurance companies,
Obras Sociales, NGOs, and the community. Edition of regular newsletters directed to the public health
community, raising awareness of key health messages, and workshops and conferences   with
presentations from peers in foreign countries about benefits of surveillance and successful corporate
tobacco control programs, are examples of those activities. The external advisory group is another project
feature which is designed to encourage involvement of stakeholders, in areas such as agriculture, tourism,
and finance. At negotiations, it was agreed that this advisory group would be established six months after
the effectiveness date.
It is also important that the specific public health promotion activities be designed with a clear
understanding of the social issues and context in which they will be undertaken. Thus, the project will
sponsor a study of the social and other risk factors related to public health issues such as addiction to
tobacco and will cany out the ensuing promotion activities with those factors taken into account.
6. Environmental assessment           Environmental Category   [ ] A     [ I B  [X] C
The project would have a positive environmental impact by specifically addressing the issue of safe
handling of insecticides and laboratory and medical materials and waste, including the development of an
effective biosafety program. Beneficiaries would have to present adequate environmental and safety plans
addressing such issues as: handling the products listed above, storage facilities for hazardous materials,
transportation and disposal, and training of personnel on environmental and safety issues. Training in the
proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste would be provided through the project.
7. Participatory approach:
Preparation       Implementation    Operation
Central and Provincial Governments      IS, CON, COL        IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL
(Health officials of both levels of government werefully engaged in the decision-makingprocess andproject preparation)
  Academic Institutions                    IS, CON            CON, COL           COL
*  Professional Associations                IS, CON            COL                COL
  Private Sector (hospitals)               CON                COL                COL
.  Community                                IS                 COL                COL
*  Other Donors/PAHO/UNDP                   COL                                   COL
(PAHO and UNDP helped the local team prepare the project, and will be involved in training)
* CDC                                       COL                COL                COL
(CDC assisted the Bank missions in the project preparation, and will be involved in training)
IS: Information Sharing    CON: Consultation  COL: Collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As explained earlier, Argentina needs to make an expanded investment in public health programs, like the
one being supported under the proposed project. Better surveillance will correct for underreporting of
diseases and may therefore increase health care costs in the short to medium term. In the long run, the
recurrent costs are expected to stabilize and/or decrease if only because epidemics are contained earlier.
While the economic and social benefits of such an increase in investment are clear, the decision to shift
public resources - especially during times of economic recession - are not easy for policy makers given
the competing demands for reduced resources. An on-going public expenditure review being conducted



Page 22
by the Government, with Bank-financed technical assistance, should help to lay the ground for this and
other public programs.
The burden of recurrent spending generated by the proposed project on total public health spending is in
relative terms modest and under normal circumstances should be feasible within expected resource
envelopes available to the health sector. The recurrent expenditures are expected to rise from about
$400,000 in the first year of the project to about $3.3 million upon project completion. Nevertheless, the
prevailing financial crisis introduces an important element of uncertainty into growth projections for
Argentina, and consequently into those of public finance.
Present estimates of the prospects for the health budget indicate that funds will be available to meet the
incremental, non-Bank financed, recurrent costs generated by the project. However, sheer availability is
no guarantee that these funds will effectively be made available for the activities generated by the project.
The issue of additional recurrent costs and their adequate financing by the GoA therefore needs to be
closely monitored, especially towards the end of and after the project implementation period. In the case
of more acute financial difficulties in the future, the project will review the implementation plan, and
make appropriate adjustments to focus on priority activities.
With a view to ensuring the long-run sustainability of the system and its enhancement over time, the
project will also support promotion of the financial involvement of the private sector and if successful
these initiatives could help to reduce the incremental financial burden on the public sector.
To reinforce sustainability, stakeholders were involved in project preparation and were part of the system
assessment and decision-making process. An external advisory board for the project (comprised of
public health academicians and practitioners, provincial public health specialists, government officials,
representatives from Agriculture, Finance, Tourism and other social sectors, and representatives of
professional organizations) will advise on all three project components and may be helpful in advocacy.
Support for technical assistance in operations and maintenance will be included under the project to help
provinces and municipalities ensure sustainability of subprojects. The management and monitoring
capacity of provinces and municipalities will be strengthened. Surveillance capacity will be strengthened
at all three levels of the system, through extensive training, upgrading of facilities, provision of equipment
and establishing a data management communication system. New personnel will also be contracted.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Lack of Government Commitment               Low            Involvement in project preparation
and implementation
Insufficient MSAS/PCU capacity              Medium         Technical Assistance/hiring new
personnel; training
Incapacity of MSAS to retain the key personnel High        Larger salaries will be paid to key
at central level                                           personnel, and the data
telecommunications system services
will be contracted out
Insufficient availability to meet the incremental High     The project will finance a study to
recurrent costs                                            explore options to ensure
sustainable financing of surveillance
activities, including the re-
allocation of funds within the
MSAS



Page 23
From Outputs to Objective
Number and variety of actors involved     Low/Medium   Assigning clear project management
responsibilities to be coordinated by
the PCU, flexible project design and
clear definitions of the major
participants' role in the project
Approval of poor-quality subprojects on the    Low/Medium   Using transparent eligibility and
basis of political patronage                             evaluation criteria for the selection
of subprojects; independent
monitoring; and financial audit
Insufficient provincial or municipal capacity    Medium  Technical Assistance/Intensive
______ ______ ___ _   _Training/45  supervisors
Overall Risk Rating                         Medium
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The tobacco-related activities to be developed under the public health component are likely to raise some
controversy. Tobacco industry opposition may in fact be a reliable barometer of project effectiveness and
controversy with respect to tobacco should not necessarily be avoided, but rather considered part of the
costs of undertaking tobacco control.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    Approval of the project's Operational Manual by the Bank and adoption of the Manual by MSAS;
(ii)    Establishment of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), and key staff, namely a project
coordinator, a general manager, a technical manager for each of the three components managers,
and an administrative supervisor, with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank are appointed and in place.
(iii)   The core technical personnel of the MSAS required for project implementation selected (three
epidemiologists, two communicable diseases specialists, and a statistician), including at least 20
trainers/supervisors at provincial level (physicians, public health specialists or epidemiologists)
have been selected.
(iv)   Review of the norms and procedures for surveillance completed, and results furnished to the
Bank.
(v)    All necessary actions taken by the Borrower to permit the procurement of goods, works and
services required and financed by the Project to be carried out in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines and procedures.
Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
(i)    Mid-term review in May 31, 2002. The PCU will, no later than March 30, 2002, prepare and
submit a summary report to the Bank as an input to the mid-term review;
(ii)   PCU will submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports no later than March 1 and September 1
each year starting March 2000;
(iii)   The Borrower will contract an independent auditor with terms of reference and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank to carry out annual procurement and financial audits of the project;
(iv)   The LACI system has to be in place no later than six months after the effectiveness date;
(v)    The PCU will, no later than December 31, 2002, prepare the terms of reference for the carrying
out of the system evaluation, and the PCU will carry out the evaluation of the system by January



Page 24
31, 2003; and
(vi)   Procurement of an agency or specialized consultants' services for carrying out the annual
independent procurement and financial audit of the project by December 31, 1999, and carrying
out the audits by June 30 of each year,
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x] 1. The Project Implementation Plan has been prepared for the entire project time life (project files);
[x] 2. A task catalog, including, identification of the task, location, objectives, dates, responsible staff for
implementation, budget and procurement methodology was also elaborated for the time life of the project
(project files);
[x] 3. The terms of reference to develop the monitoring and evaluation system of the project under LACI
system are approved (project files).
I. Compliance with Bank Policies. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team      e: abela Abreu
Sector ir ctor: Xavier Coll
Coun        e    Myrna Alexander



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (VIGI-A)
Hierarchy of Objectives         Verifiable Indicators      Means of Verification          Important
Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                     Sector/country Reports:  (from Goal to Bank
Improve the health of the                                    MSAS Statistics          Mission): Sustainable,
population by reducing                                                                efficient and adequate
mortality and morbidity                                                               health surveillance and
disease prevention and
control system
Project Development                                          Project Reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective
Strengthen national, provincial   *  Notifiable disease data  *  SINAVE data          *  Surveillance
and local institutions           appropriately utilized:     *  Project Supervision    *  Personnel trained
responsible for public health  90% of cases of invasive                               *  Surveillance norms
policy, planning and action    meningococcal disease                                     and procedures
(meningitis or                                            revised and adopted
meningococcemia) detected                             *  Data
have been investigated and                                Telecommunications
appropriate control measures                              system implemented
(chemoprophylaxis) instituted
* Bulletin development and
production (36 bulletins)
* TB incidence decreased 15%
* Hospital-acquired infections
in target hospitals associated
with catheter, urinary tract and
ventilator reduced by 20%,
10%, and 10%, respectively
Output from each component:                                  Project Reports          (from Outputs to
Objective)
**A stronger Public Health    *  Surveillance system detects   *  SINAVE Data         *  Surveillance
Surveillance System              at least .75 cases of invasive   *  Project Supervision    *  Personnel trained
meningococcal disease                               *  Surveillance norms
(meningitis or                                          and procedures
meningococcemia) per                                   revised and adopted
100,000 pop., and this level                        *  Data
should be met or exceeded in                            Telecommunications
-75% of the provinces                                   system implemented
- 75% culture confirned                             *  Ministry of Health
- 90% of isolates sero-                                 will be able to hire
grouped                                                 and maintain key
*  3 cases of bacterial                                    personnel at central
meningitis reported for every                          level
case of meningococcal                               *  Availability of
disease recognized                                     funds to meet the
- 50% culture confirmed                                incremental recurrent
*  An etiologic agent identified                           costs
in at least 3% of stool
cultures obtained from all
persons identified with
diarrheal diseases at sentinel
sites
* At least 200 influenza
viruses per year obtained
from throat swabs taken



Hierarchy of Objectives          Verifiablej Idicators*       Mens of Verifiato             Important
l: __________________         :    A ssumptions
from patients at influenza
sentinel sites
Key personnel trained as follows:
*  Outbreak investigation     j    Procurement
(advanced level): 6            records, and
(medium level): 72             supervision missions
*  Data Decision Making: 120
*  Laboratory Biosafety: 30
*  Laboratory Reporting: 28
*  Management: 60
*  Bulletin Development and
Production: 36
*  Data definitions and         .  SINAVE data
Coding standards defined
and adopted
*   Sentinel network fully      *   Project supervision
implemented (50 sites for  .  Procurement
communicable diseases, and     records
20 for injuries)
*  Laboratory network          *  Project supervision
Upgraded (one national lab
upgraded to BSL-3, 36
upgraded to BSL-2, and 25
upgraded to BSL- I, and
equipped)
*   80% of the provinces are    *  Project supervision
developing 4 surveillance
bulletins/year and central
13/year, available
electronically via the
Internet
**Improved Disease Control in   *  Direct observed treatmnent  .  Project statistics    *  Availability of TB
Selected Areas                     Coverage for TB: 80%       *  Project supervision        drugs
(+20%)
*  Bacteriologic
Confirmation of TB
pulmonary cases increased
up to 85% (+15%)
*  Sentinel network for
Dengue control fully
implemented (52 sites)
*  300 key personnel trained
in hospital infections,
prevention and control
*  2000 field workers trained
in TB and dengue control
*   800 health professionals
trained in epidemiology and
diagnostic testing for TB
and dengue



Hierarchy of Objectives  r    Verifiable Indicators         Means of Verification          Important
,__________   ____  __ _  _____Assumptions
Health Promotion Unit have key
personnel trained as follows:
**lmproved Health Promotion    a  Health Communication: 10   *  PCU reports            *  Government
l  Procurement              support for the
records                      evolving role of
Health journalists trained in   .  PCU reports            health promotion
basic surveillance and     *  Project mission
control: 10                                         *  Government and
Tobacco media campaigr     .  PCU reports               Civil Society support
executed                   .  Project supervision       for the involvement
of the private sector
I    Pilot tobacco control study
on 1private corporation
executed
Advocacy group             .  Minutes of the
Constituted and active        meetings
Project Components/Sub-       Inputs (budget for each         Project Reports          (from Components to
components                    component)                                               Outputs)
**Strengthening the Public    US$ 42.4                       - Project costs           *  Timely availability of
Health Surveillance System                                   - Financial Monitoring        counterpart funds
- Disbursement reports
**Strengthening Disease       US$ 16.4                       - Audits                  *  MSAS/PCU Capacity
Control                                                      - Management and
**Health Promotion           I US$ 9.7                        financial reports
**Project Administration      US56.0                          -Contracts



Annex 2: Project Description
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (VIGI-A)
Component I: Strengthening the Public Health Surveillance System. (US$ 42.4 million) This component,
to be implemented nationally and in stages, seeks to strengthen MSAS institutional capacity to make
informed decisions about prevention and control priorities and to monitor the impact of interventions.
Specifically, it will:
(i)    review the norms and procedures for surveillance and attempt to standardize case definitions,
reporting procedures and data collection in accordance with the new system design;
(ii)    strengthen human resource capacity, at all levels, to carry out all health surveillance activity areas
of training including the surveillance of communicable diseases, chronic diseases, behavioral risk
factors and injuries (see Annex 14);
(iii)   rehabilitate, expand and upgrade the existing laboratory network (1 laboratory level III, 36
laboratories level II and 25 level I) through the provision of technical assistance, the acquisition
of equipment and construction of civil works (see Annex 12);
(iv)   improve the quality of the existing health data telecommunications through provision of
appropriate hardware, software, training and technical assistance to the specialized staff in the
laboratory network and health facilities participating in the surveillance system (see Annex 13).
An internet based network will be developed for data transfer and storage for the intermediate,
provincial and central levels. This network will link to laboratories, control programs, vital
statistics, and maternal and child health in addition to epidemiology and surveillance groups. It
will be password protected and have appropriate security;
(v)    improve the rationale of the current system by implementing alternative surveillance methods and
reducing the number of conditions under surveillance (see Table A) through the provision of
technical assistance and training for MSAS staff in, inter alia, the design of data collection
instruments, questionnaires, scales, sampling methods, record-keeping, and data analysis and
collection, and collection of baseline data on risk factors and behavior. The options were based
on quantitative analysis (see Annex 4), other countries' experiences and bibliography. The
sentinel network will be implemented gradually (Table B) for four communicable conditions and
injuries. This will allow surveillance to be phased in, for initial sites to assist in training groups
from subsequent sites, and for the efficient implementation of necessary corrections to data
collection and disease monitoring. Other health conditions can be added to the system according
to epidemiological patterns of disease in Argentina;
(vi)   evaluation of the technical and economic aspects of the surveillance system  ( to assess the
capacity of the system to monitor each health event, taking into consideration sensitivity,
specificity'", efficiency, representativeness, timeliness and flexibility of the system); at
negotiations, it was agreed that this would take place by January 31, 2003;
(vii)  finance operational research in epidemiolog-cal surveillance such as assessment of the
representativeness and completeness of disease reporting; timeliness; adherence to established
case definitions; patterns of diseases not on the current monitoring system list to determine
whether they should be added; review and tabulation of reported outbreaks, and other topics, and
also disease control. Selection criteria are specified in the Operational Manual; and
(viii)  evaluate effectiveness and relevance of training activities supported by the project.
9 Sensitivity is the proportion of persons with a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance system
10 Specificity is the proportion of persons without a disease/health event that are detected by the surveillance system



Annex 2                                Page 2 of 5
Component II: Strengthening Disease Control. (US$ 16.4 million) This component will strengthen the
institutional capacity of participating provinces and the City of Buenos Aires to carry out disease
monitoring, control and prevention. Specifically, it will support:
(i)    tuberculosis control in 10 provinces and Metropolitan Buenos Aires, the areas of highest
incidence and multi-resistance to therapy (Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, Cordoba, Mendonza, Ciudad
de Buenos Aires, Salta, Jujuy, Rio Negro, and Santa Cruz);
(ii)    dengue control in high risk populations, through 52 sentinel sites (see Table D) (selected on the
basis of risk mapping, prevalence, vectors density, and population) which will monitor for febrile
illness including lab testing of suspected cases, and vector monitoring in areas of high risk with
high levels of vector infestation ( Salta, Catamarca, Jujuy, Tucumin, Corrientes, Misiones, Santa
Fe, Capital Federal, Cordoba, Chaco, Formosa, Entre Rios, Buenos Aires, Santiago del Estero, La
Rioja)
(iii)   nosocomial (hospital acquired) infection control in 100 randomly selected hospitals (80 public
and 20 private) which meet specific selection criteria (see Table E). This will include support for:
a) elaboration of the norms and procedures for NI control; b) rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure; c) collection of baseline data on hospital infections; d) training of professional
teams for prevention and control of selected diseases; e) computers and software for surveillance;
f) supervision and technical assistance; and h) vehicles ; and
(iv)   control of emergent and re-emergent diseases which may occur during the life of the project,
through subprojects financed by grants.
Component III: Health Promotion (HP). (US$ 9.7 million) This component will strengthen MSAS
capacity to carry out a health promotion strategy through education, social mobilization and policy
advocacy. Specifically, it will support:
(i)    strengthening the institutional capacity of the health promotion unit of the MSAS, through
training, equipment and rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure;
(ii)   training of MSAS and HP personnel in media and communications, and training of health
journalists in the areas of disease surveillance and control;
(iii)   subprojects to be implemented by local institutions and community groups to set up or strengthen
disease prevention and health promotion within their communities (eligibility criteria and
application procedures are described in the Operational Manual);
(iv)   dissemination of project objectives and activities through regular newsletters directed at the
public health community and through workshops, conferences and technical meetings for
stakeholders such as politicians, government officials, the medical and private insurance
community, and others;
(v)    over the life of the project, meetings of a committee of political and social leaders, including
health journalists, to define a strategy and action plan to help ensure sustainability of the project;
(vi)   a media campaign against tobacco addiction to be designed on the basis of a risk factors survey;
and
(vii)   a plan to include private corporations in a partnership with the Ministry of Health to combat
tobacco addiction in the employees of such corporations. This plan will include; a) identification
of studies detailing economic cost of tobacco addiction from a corporate perspective; b) a tobacco
control conference, with participation of key executives of major Argentine corporations; c) using
evidence of the studies, identification of an Argentine corporation willing to serve as a
study/intervention site; d) analysis of the economic cost of tobacco addiction within the
corporation; e) development of a tobacco control program for the corporation; and (f) replication
for other corporations.
Component IV: Project Administration. (US$6.0 million) The project will help finance the administrative
and operating costs of the Project Coordinating Unit over a 4-year period. This includes: (i) PCU



Annex 2                                  Page 3 of 5
technical and managerial staff, with the exception of the core technical team within MSAS, (ii) domestic
and international travel and per diem for PCU staff; (iii) training of PCU staff; and (iv) equipment,
materials and office supplies.
Diseases and Surveillance Methods
Table A
rImmuno-Preventible                -Zoosi 0
-  Polio and Flaccid Paralysis    -  Intensive         -  Rabies (human)              -  individual
-  Diphtheria                     -  Individual        -  Rabies (animal)             -  # of cases
-  Measles                        -  Intensive         -  Psittacosis                 -  Individual
-  Tetanus (adult and neo-natal)  -  Intensive         -  Anthrax                     -  Individual
-  Mumps                          -  # of cases        -  Hydatidosis                 -  # of cases
-  Rubella                        -  # of cases        -  Hemorragic Fever            -  Individual
-  Whooping Cough                 -  # of cases            (Argentina)
-  Hantavirus                 -  Individual
-  Leptospirosis              -  Individual
Gastroenterical                                           Vectors
-  Cholera                        -  Intensive         -  Malaria                     -  Individual
-  Typhoid Fever                  -  Individual        -  Dengue                      -  # of cases
-  Botulism                       -  Individual        -  Chagas (congenital and      -  # of cases
-  Enteric Toxins (outbreaks, red    -  Outbreak           adult)                     -  Individual
tide, trichinosis)                investigation    -  Leishmaniosis
-  Diarrhea                       -   Sentinel Sites
Respiratory C                                          Non-Communicable               ___i____
-  Influenza                      -  Sentinel Sites    -  Accidents (auto and         -  Sentinel Sites.
-  Lower Respiratory Infections   -  Sentinel Sites        household)
-  Tuberculosis                   -  Individual        -  Injuries (self-inflicted)   -  Sentinel Sites
-  Injuries (violence-related)    -  Sentinel Sites
-  Leprosy                        -  Individual        HIV/AIDS                       -  By prograrn"
-  Hepatitis A, B, C , and others  -   Individual
Meningitis, bacterial and     - Individual
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ m eningococcical  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
*"ter:ational Agreiments      _ R
-  Syphilis (adult and congenital)    -  # of cases        Yellow Fever               -  Individual
-  Gonorrhea                      -  # of cases        -  Typhus                      -  Individual
-  Chlamydia                      -   Sentinel Sites   -  Plague                      -  Individual
Implementation of Sentinel Sites by Condition
Table B
~Condition    Year 2   Year 3~ Year4   T6(tal                            Provinces
Diarrhea        5        10        5        20    Santiago del Estero (2), Salta (2), Jujuy, Chaco, Formosa, Santa
Fe, Buenos Aires Region V, VI and Vlla, Mendoza, Rio Negro,
Neuquen, Corrientes, Tucuman, Misiones, Entre Rios, C6rdoba,
La Pampa
Influenza       6         6                 12    C6rdoba, Buenos Aires III, VI, Vila and VIII, Capital (2), Santa
Fe (2), Mendoza, Neuquen, Santa Cruz
Lower           6         5                 I 11   C6rdoba, Buenos Aires VI and VIII, Capital, Santa Fe, Mendoza,
Respiratory                                        Misiones, Chaco, Tucuman, Rio Negro, Santiago (serology will
Infections                                        be done in 3 of these sites)
Chlamydia       4         3         -        7     Capital, C6rdoba, Misiones, Mendoza, Santa Fe, Salta, Corrientes
Accidents       5         10        5       20    Buenos Aires Region IV, V, VI and VIla, C6rdoba, Santa Fe (2),
(auto and                                          Capital (2), La Pampa, Mendoza, Chubut, Formosa, Corrientes,
household)                                         Santa Cruz, Neuqudn, Rio Negro, Chaco, Catamarca, Salta
1  Surveillance will be carried out by the LUSIDA Project (the National AIDS and STD Control Project)



Annex 2                                      Page 4 of 5
New Personnel to be Paid by the Project 12
(Later integrated as MSAS staff)
Table C
Description                          Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4
Surveillance System
Central Level
*   Epidemiologists                                      4             4             3              3
*   Infectious Disease Specialists                       2             2             1
*   Statisticians                                        I             I             1
*   Trainers                                             2             2             2              I
*  Editor/Illustrator                                    I             -             -              -
*   Administrative Support                               2             1             1
*  Administrator of Telecommunication Network            -             1             I 
*   I Entomologist
+   I Biologist                                                        Contracted by task
*   I Sanitation Engineer
*   I Biochemist                                                     Support from ANLIS
(on an as-needed basis)
Provincial Level
*   Trainers/Supervisors                                45                          45              15
(30 others to be
paid by provinces)
Sentinel Sites for Dengue Control
Table D
Year                                     Sites Established
Year 1                    .   8 sites in NOA
.   8 sites in NEA
*   6 sites in Central Argentina
.   8 sites in Metropolitan Buenos Aires
Year 2                    .   7 sites in NOA
.   7 sites in NEA
.   4 sites in Central Argentina
.   4 sites in Metropolitan Buenos Aires
NOA=Northwest Argentina (Jujuy, Salta, TucumAn, Santiago del Estero, Catamarca, La Rioja
NEA=Northeast Argentina (Formosa, Chaco, Santa Fe, Entre Rios, Corrientes, Misiones)
12 Tasks and responsibilities of this personnel were reviewed and accepted by the Bank.



Annex 2                                  PageS of5
Site Selection Criteria - Dengue
Table D(a)
> Health Centers with more than 100 ambulatory patients daily
> Health Centers in areas with vector infestation rate above 5%
((# of water infected supplies/Total # of Households Inspected) xlOO}
> Laboratory available to identify Dengue cases
Hospital Selection Criteria
Table E
> Hospital must have an Infection Control Committee
> More than 50 beds, and an occupancy rate greater than 70%
> Hospital must have an intensive care unit



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (VIGI-A)
1.Strengthenlingmthe Public Health Surveillance System         35.9             2.3              38.2
2. Strengthening Disease Control                                 14.2             1.0              15.2
3. Health Promotion                                               8.2             0.4               8.6
4. Project Administration                                         5.1             0.3               5.4
Total Baseline Cost                                              63.4             4.0             67.4
Physical Contingencies                                         5.9             0.4               6.3
Price Contingencies                                            0.7             0.1               0.8
Total Project Costs                      70.0             4.5              74.5
Interest during construction   N/A              N/A               N/A
Front-end fee                       0.5               0.5
Total Financing Required                 70.0             5.0              75.0
Amounts may not add-up exactly due to rounding
Contingencies estimated on the following basis: (i) physical 10%; (ii) price 2.9%
Goods                                                             8.725            1.0              9.725
Works                                                             4.55             0.9              5.45
Consulting Services and Training                                 35.0              2.3            37.3
Grants                                                           l l.S             0.0             11.5
Administration Costs                                              5.7              0.3              6.0
Recurrent Costs                                                   4.5              0.0              4.5
Total Project Costs                      70.0               4.475          74.475
Interest during construction  N/A             N/A              N/A
Front-end fee                        0.525           75.0
Total Financing Required                 70.0               5.0            75.0



Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (VIGI-A)
A two-part economic analysis was carried out for the Argentina Disease Surveillance and Control Project:
an impact/cost-utility and a sustainability analysis. This annex summarizes the main assumptions and the
recommendations. The detailed analyses can be found in the Project file.
Impact and Cost-Utility Analysis
Main Analytical Steps and Assumptions:
1.     Using estimates from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study, and building on mortality data
from 1996, estimates are made of the current impact of several diseases (stated in YLL's or Years of Life
Lost, and DALY's or Disability-Adjusted Life Years). The impact analysis includes infectious diseases
as well as non-communicable diseases and injuries. The results should be considered very approximate;
their importance lies in the fact that they can give a general sense of the scale of different diseases and
their impact relative to each other. They do not intend to demonstrate the absolute burden of diseases. To
avoid this confusion, the word impact, and not burden, has been used throughout the analysis, even
though the unit used is Disability-Adjusted Life Years.
2.     The quantification of impact is complemented by cost-utility data (in dollars per DALY averted)
gathered from different sources, to arrive at an approximate ranking of diseases both by impact, and by
priority of investment. Not all diseases are evaluated due to lack of data. The major source of data used
is Jamison et al. (1993) which collects and compiles a significant amount of cost-utility data from
different studies.
3.     The establishment of priorities and the final recommendation as to the inclusion of each disease
in the surveillance and the disease control components are based on a few criteria. The quantitative
criteria are: (i) disease impact, and (ii) cost-utility, and the non-quantitative are: (i) outbreak potential (or
emergent disease), (ii) plans or potential for eradication, (iii) vaccine-preventability, (iv) being an
indicator or risk factor for an important disease, and (v) the probability that improved surveillance
information would lead to better control (i.e. reduced impact) of the disease. Outbreak potential is much
more difficult to quantify than the current impact of a disease. For many diseases, mathematical models
have been created for the projection of future patterns, most notably for HIV/AIDS. However, this is not
a practical path for the design of surveillance and control programs because (i) the construction of each
model is laborious and time-consuming, and (ii) it is not easy to verify the accuracy of these models.
One option is to simply examine the diseases on a case-by-case basis and using the observed behavior of
each disease in the past (within or outside the national territory), or suspected biological characteristics in
the case of newly recognized diseases, determine the necessity of surveillance.  Often, a simple
quantitative indicator can serve as an adjunct to this decision process. The indicator chosen for this study
is the ratio of maximum to minimum incidence for the period for which incidence data is available. This
gives a very approximate bearing of the outbreak potential of some diseases with the following
limitations: (i) diseases which have had a zero incidence during one or more years cannot be included, (ii)
diseases which have been well-controlled will not show their true potential for spread, (iii) diseases which
threaten to enter the country but have not yet done so will not be included, and (iv) diseases with very
small numbers could show very large ratios with even a small increase in absolute number of cases.



Annex 4                                       Page 2 of IO
Main Recommendations:
Based on the quantitative criteria (impact and cost-utility), and some complementary non-quantitative criteria (for
example diseases with plans for eradication), a recommendation is made for the inclusion or not of diseases in each of the
epidemiological surveillance and disease control components of the Project.
1.     For the surveillance component, of the original list of some 50 notifiable diseases, 31 are recommended for
general surveillance, and 6 indicated for sentinel site surveillance. Two important points to be considered in these
discussions are the potential for spread of these diseases, and more importantly, the probable effect of surveillance on
checking the spread of the disease. Depending on the peculiar characteristics of the disease in question, and specific
socioeconomic and political characteristics of the regions where it occurs, surveillance may have anywhere from great to
little or no effect on its control. In the latter case, its inclusion in thenotifiable disease list might be inefficient and burden
the surveillance system without tangible gain. The recommendations for the epidemiological surveillance system are
summarized in table I below.
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
THE SURVEILLANCE COMPONENT
SUmVEXUJANCE M         lT'O,
ttenive            Ind-d.al            Number e6 'a   .     ent,
Polio and Flaccid  Diphtheria          Mumps               Diarrhea            Enteric Toxins
Paralysis                                                                      (outbreaks, red tide,
trichinosis) - outbreak
investigation
Measles            Typhoid Fever       Rubella             Influenza           HIV/AIDS - program
Tetanus (adult and    Botulism         Whooping Cough      Lower Respiratory
neo-natal)                                                 Infections
Cholera            Tuberculosis        Syphilis (adult and    Chlamydia
congenital)
Leprosy             Gonorrhea          Accidents (auto and
household)
Hepatitis A, B, C, and Rabies (animal)  Injuries (self-inflicted)
others
Rabies (human)     Hydatidosis         Injuries (violence-
related)
Psittacosis        Dengue
Anthrax             Chagas (congenital
and adult)
Hemorragic Fever
(Argentina)
Hantavirus
Leptospirosis
Meningitis (bacterial
& viral)
Malaria
Leishmaniosis
Yellow Fever
Typhus
Plague
2.     For the disease control component, 17 diseases are recommended, complemented by another 8 vaccine-
preventable illnesses. Although Argentine hemorrhagic fever is included, it is advisable that the specific situation, present
necessity of and prospects for effective control be discussed in the Ministry of Health before a definitive decision is made.
Although immunizable diseases are not necessarily a responsibility of the VIGIA Project, they are included here to be
complete. Eight such diseases are included, with tuberculosis a potential ninth candidate which is already mentioned in



Annex 4                                                Page 3 of 10
the first list. Mumps and rubella do not cause a large impact in the population, however with the use of the MMR
vaccine, their control can be achieved at low incremental cost, thus their inclusion in this list.
TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
THE DISEASE CONTROL COMPONENT
NON. 'ACCINE EI!TABLz.ISE  ,IIvACC                            VNASl
Tuberculosis                                   Pertussis
Syphilis                                       Poliomyelitis
Chlamydia                                      Diphtheria
Gonorrhea                                      Measles
HIV                                            Tetanus
Diarrheal diseases                             Mumps
Bacterial meningitis and meningococcemia       Rubella
Hepatitis B and hepatitis C                    Neonatal Tetanus
Malaria
Chagas disease
Leishmaniasis
Leprosy
Dengue
Lower respiratory infections
Cholera
Typhoid Fever
Argentine Hemorrhagic Fever



Annex 4                                          Page 4 of 10
Disease Control Component - Cost-Benefit Analysis
Dengue (Information Adapted from Shepard and Halstead in Jamison et al. 1993)
Direct costs associated with the disease include vector control, vaccinations, diagnosis, and outpatient treatment of mild
cases (which are 10 to 50 times more common that reported severe cases), and intensive care of the severely ill, including
intravenous fluids, blood or plasma transfusion, and polypharmacy, with average hospital stays of 5 to 1O days for severe
cases. Adults lose work to attend to children's illness, and there is a large risk of mortality particularly forhemorrhagic
dengue fever. In addition, there is a substantial likelihood of losses associated with reduction of tourism and related
business activities.
In 1987, more than 600,000 cases of dengue hemorrhagic fever were reported in Southeast Asia, with 24,000 deaths (a
death rate of 4 percent). Venezuela experienced 1,000 cases in a 1989-90 outbreak, including 50 deaths (a death rate of 5
percent). A 1981 outbreak in Cuba caused 116,000 hospitalizations, more than 1 percent of the population, during a 3-
month period. Puerto Rico experienced a major outbreak in 1977 and has had recurring outbreaks in the 1990s.
There are two estimates of the cost of the 1977 epidemic in Puerto Rico ( with a population of 3 million people). The first
includes the direct costs for medical care and vector control measures and indirect costs for lost production due to illness
and absenteeism by patients and by parents caring for sick children. Total estimated costs on this basis range between
$6.0 million and $16 million. Another estimate that includes losses due to lost tourism raises the cost to $100 to $150
million. Costs of the 1981 outbreak in Cuba (with a population of 10 million) have been estimated at $103 million. In
current dollars, the amount would be about triple, in both cases.
Argentina experienced an epidemic of dengue fever in 1998, with an estimated 800 cases. Deaths due to the epidemic are
not known; knowledge of what actually happened is scarce because of poor surveillance. This small epidemic was
primarily self-limiting.
Given that we do not have good information on which to base a detailed economic analysis for Argentina, we will use the
Puerto Rican and Cuban cases to develop a rough idea of the range of potential costs of a dengue epidemic in Argentina.
These are relevant because the goal of the MHAS is to prevent a serious outbreak, with the belief today after the 1998
outbreak that there is a reasonable probability of an outbreak occurring in densely populated Buenos Aires Province,
which would be disastrous. In Buenos Aires metropolitan area, there are 12 million at high risk, where it has been
observed household infections rates above 30%. The risk of hemorrhagic dengue is higher with the recent introduction in
the country of the serotype 2, and the occurrence of epidemics in the neighboring countries.
In the Puerto Rican case, the cost per capita if we assume the lower bound cost of $100 million (from the estimate
including tourism losses, as the experience in Argentina in 1998 was a significant loss of bookings in hotels), was about
$33 per capita in 1977, or about $100 per capita in 1999. In the Cuban case, the cost per capita was about $10, or about
$30 per capita in 1999. Argentina is probably much more similar to Puerto Rican case in terms of income and impact, so
let us assume a cost of $80 per capita in current monetary units of a serious dengue outbreak in Argentina.
If we further assume that probability of a serious outbreak of dengue fever is 0.5 percent (one-half of one percent)
annually, and the benefits of the project last until 2010, the expected value of the cost of dengue would be about $13.9
million in the first year (.005 times $80 times 34.7 million people) and $256 million over the period from 2001 to 2010
(undiscounted). If the project is able to reduce the probability of a serious dengue outbreak by half (to 0.25 percent), we
would expect approximately half of these costs to be saved. The table below indicates the sensitivity of theundiscounted
benefit to the assumed probability of an outbreak.



Annex 4                                              Page 5 of 10
Table I
Probability of an Outbreak     Undiscounted 10 Year Benefit of Project: Reduction by Half of the
Probability of an Outbreak of Dengue Fever
0.005                                                 $128 million
0.004                                                 $102 million
0.003                                                 $77 million
0.002                                                 $51 million
0.001                                                 $26 million
In effect, with this project, Argentina is trying to reduce the probability of an epidemic, so we feel this is a valid way to
approach the potential benefit of the project.
Tuberculosis
For tuberculosis, there were 13,000 new cases in Argentina in 1997. We project that the incidence of the disease will
grow by 2 percent per year until 2010 if there is no intervention. The project's goal is to reduce the incidence of the
disease by 15 percent at the end of 4 years, over what it would otherwise have been. This benefit is assumed to persist to
2010, so that in 2010 there are 15 percent fewer cases than there otherwise would have been. In this analysis we ignore
mortality. We focus only on the direct costs of hospitalization and lost wages due to morbidity (that means ignoring
clinical costs for those who are not hospitalized, or after hospitalization). We make the following assumptions:
Table 2
Variable                                 Assumption
Projected Hospitalizations             5 % of new cases
Length of Stay Per Hospitalization         35 days
Cost Per Day                                $15
Average Days of Morbidity for TB            548
Disability Weight for TB                   0.294
Daily Income Lost for Disability             $7
Reduction in Incidence by Project      15 % over 5 years
The total projected inpatient costs and lost income associated with the 13,000 new cases in 2001 is $8.0 million. By 2010,
the total is $95.2 million (undiscounted). If the project reduces cases by the planned percentage, savings in 2001 will be
$0.4 million. The savings will accumulate to $12.2 million (undiscounted) in 2010.
Hospital Infections
The project is expected to reduce infections acquired during a hospitalization by an average of 13 percent for the three
most prevalent infections in 100 hospitals by the end of the project. The benefit of the project in this case is assumed to
be limited only to the reduction in hospitalization costs (ignoring wages, morbidity, mortality, etc.). The assumptions
used are as follows:
Table 3
Variable                                                             Assumption
Total Number of Hospitalizations (1% of Population)                    347000
Percentage of Acquired Infections                                        0.05
Added Length of Stay Due to Infection                                   5 days
Cost Per Day                                                             $15
Average Reduction Due to Project (grows to .133 by the fifth year, then persists  0.05
at that level to 2010)
Percent of Infections Covered by Project                                 0.8
Percent of Cases Accounted for by Project Hospitals                      0.8



Annex 4                                              Page 6 of 10
The projected incremental inpatient costs associated with acquired infections in the first year for all hospitals in Argentina
is $1.3 million. This accumulates to $28.4 million by 2010. With the project intervention, the cost savings is expected to
be $0.042 million in the first year, accumulating to $1.9 million (undiscounted) by 2010.
Overall
Table 4
Intervention                                  Undiscounted 10 Year Benefit from 2001 to 2010
Dengue Management                                            $127,833,059
Tuberculosis                                                $12,204,183.03
Hospital Acquired Infections                                  $1,886,125
Total                                                        $141,923,367
If the logic of the analysis is agreed to, and the assumptions are agreed to be reasonable, the benefits of the disease control
component are substantial and in fact can carry the whole project. We assume further that costs are incurred in calendar
years 1999 and 2000, but with no benefits received until 2001. The internal rate of return for the disease control
component (cost of $16.4 million) is 63% (the discount rate that would drive the stream of net benefits to 0). If we
assume that the rest of the project produces nothing of value beyond the benefits of the disease control program (at a cost
of $75 million), the internal rate of return would be 15 percent.



Annex 4                                                Page 7 ofJO0
Table 5
~~naue__-    -- -            -  j~~~       ~~~~9991  2000j  -- __._. 14  -_20021--,--2003~   --_  2004---  -  2005__  --2006_                     200         - 2008-
Population                                                   ----34700000       39211000T    44308430    50068525.9   56577434.27   63932500.72   72243725.82 _81635410.17
Cost er Ca ita____                    $80            $80               -- -___   48a -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$~~9 - ... .    $80  ___  $80  ----80O
Total Cost                                   $2.776,OOQ,000~~~~~~~~V~T   3168000  3- 544,674400-$4,0-05-482,072 _$4,526,194,741 _$_5 14,600_058  57j 79 498_065 _$_6_530 ~832 81-4
Probabiy -~_                                                         0.005         0.005   ___0.005   _          0.005 _       0.005     __0.005             0.005   __  0.005
ExetdLs-                                                       $13 ~880 000O   $15,684,400    $7723 72  - 20 027 410    $22,630,974      255380_$~897 490    $32,654 164
Halve the Probability                            ---           ~    0.0025        0.0025  _      0.0025        0.0025      _   .05002                       002   _       002
Loss with Project                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~_$6,940,00  $7820 -$,6186                i375    41_13_15487  -$2,8650              $4 4~745    $~16327 0~82
TB _________-2000 __                                                                2001           20,02         2003           2004           2005           2006          2007
New Cases No Proect                                          __     13000       __ ---13260  __ 13525.2-- 13795.704 _ 14071.61808- 14353.05044   14640.111451  14932.91368
Proected Hosmpitlztos------                                           650 __   __663             676.264     689.7852    703.580904   717.6525221   732 0055725~  7468645684
Projected Length of Sta-_35                                                           35        _    35!      _   35  ___         35             35  ___       35~            35
HoFtalDys270   __ 2320-5                                                                        23669.1     24142.482   24625.33164   25117.83827   2.5620.1950       63.99
Total Hospjtalization Cost                                         31250         34075 ?5,037 __              32137   -$39380 ---.$76,768                  38 303        391 989
Avera eDaysof Morbi ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- ~~548                    __  548   _          548  _        548-        _  548  _         54-8   _       548   _        548
)isabilitye eiht-.-_                                                 0.294 -    --  0.294    ___ 0.294 ___0.294 __             0.294 ___      0.294          0.294       --0.294
Avera e Da s Lost                                 161.112        161.112       161.112        161.112  ___   161.112       161.112  ___  161.112  ___  161.112~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11.1216.11  11.12  6111  11.12  6111
One-Third Per CapLt. Income                                      -                                   $7_  7  8          _  $88-$                               $8
Lost Income_Per Case111                                                      _    $23            124$24                         ,29-- $22-                  $135$39
Total LostlIncome (1/2 of cases) -              ----             76962 -  7974 264           $   017        $,9,74--$,2,55- $,7,57q$,9  9
Total Cost                         $8,020 922 __   8 322 339   - $8~635 193 - -- $8,959,921    929695        $9,646,82521499,646,825I,3866886
Reduction in Incidence b Protect  -{0-.05 __    0.075  _     _  0.1                                             0.125 ___       0.15  _        0.15  ___      0.15 _         0.15
Benefits Due to Prolect    -____                                401,046.10    $62 7~44 - $63,519.35 __$I119,990.13 .. $1,394,546.22  _$1,447_923.74 __1 501 493.9   $ 558 032.~89
Hos ital Infections          -
Total Number of Hospitalizations-              -i370                               910__~043               508.           67432         3350724  722437.2582   816354.1017
PerepntageofAcquired In-fections                  __0.05                             0.05   ____   0.05   _ _ __ 0.05 ---       0.05   _       0.05   __   0.05    _         0.05
N    .umber of Acquired Infections         __17350 _  _19605.5                                22154.215   25034.26295   28288.71713   31966.253    36121.86291   40817.70509
Lenjgth-of Stay D5ue to In-fection    ___  _          ______                                                                                     ~     _      ~ __
Cost Per Dayv       _----~-~.                                          $1 5         A5         -_$1 5 - -_ __-   15 -          4       ~        $5 _$15 __1
Cost Due to Infection    -__        1$1,30_, 50                                $14_70413      1 61 5_66            70_2__ __W             239
_____           -- -                ____  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5_      - $1,877,5__    .$j1,5          2,9  69      $7940           36_1328
Average eduction_Due to Proiect                             ___       0.05 __        0. 08          0. 1         0.133 ___     0.133  _       0.133    _     0.133  ____0.133
Percent of Infections Covered by-Pro ect              ___      __      0.8 __0.8                    0.8 ____  0.8             _0. ___ 0808 _   _ 08
Sample of Hospitals In Total_Number          _      ___0.8                            0.8    _      08      ___0._           _    .8 __          .8.8 _08
avnsDeto Project                                                                                                      Al__059__7_                    230_02_6_58
_______  - -   -    -    41 640       41~~~~~~~~~~,Z85  - ~~ 106 340  -$159,819 AQ,5             $204,7  ___$342              $2658
Dengue  ___  -        __  -----i             .4~~~~~~~~94Q,~000  $742 2010f                 ,,6M        _1131          $12,786-500    $14,448,745 A,2,
Tuberculosis                                                  -$0,061           2415.4        (3  193J  _1  901 _____394546-           $2 1 4417 023 7
Hospital Infections  ___   -  ___            640        $7$,285        106 ~~~~     ~~ ~~~~~340  $581  -$80 595 - $204,073   _   230,602      _ 260 5-80
Total Benefit        -                             -- _   0     $7 382686      $8, 5411,661   93561          123514 ~ $2890 628    $4479                 6881          1159
Total Cost for Disease Control Component - $4,1 100,000 $4 00_000  4_100 000-----00 000                                                                                      695
Cash Flow for Disease Control Component -4 1 00~~ -$4,100-000- _   3282686   -$4,4-41661   A9831,5461   $1  9  1           12,890 628! _   4356-$6108                  11469
Internal Rate of Return for DCC             6%____               __
tal-                                          375000       8750001877500                                                                                 ____7__000
Tota Project Cost   -- -  __-97001    350                                - -- 170C'                                                      ~-                     ___
Cash FlowforFulLProi~~~~t    -937 O9~-9375000,  -1167343    -128394    8185.1    1231.0                         29628.24   14437596.42{  16180841.09j  18145695.15



Annex 4                                    Page 8 of JO
Sustainability Analysis
Main Analytical Steps and Assumptions
1.    Incremental recurrent costs are calculated based on five broad categories (Table 1). The estimate for salaries is
based on the manpower necessary to maintain the system given the gradually declining number of staff hired by the
Project, both at the central and the provincial level. Maintenance of the sentinel units is assumed to cost $4,000 per year
for each injury unit and $10,000 for other units. Surveillance of risk factors and communicable diseases begins in the
third year; annual costs are assumed to be constant into the post-Project period and will be financed by theMoH from
2003 onward. The telecommunications system involves brings about costs for equipment maintenance and update and for
internet and telephone use; with the expected deregulation, costs are assumed to decrease by 20% in 2003, 30% in 2004,
and 35% in 2004. DOTS for tuberculosis involves medication and supervision costs; training at the local level will be
completed by Project end and will not be a source of any incremental costs. Although the number of cases of TB is
expected to increase initially, incidence, abandon of treatment, and recrudescent cases are all expected to decline,
therefore medication costs are not expected to increase. There is a possibility that surveillance of non-communicable
diseases increases the number of recognized cases thus elevating treatment costs, however it is too early to speculate on
this issue. The incremental recurrent costs of the Project start at $386 thousand in the year 2000, peak during the first
post-Project year at $3.3 million and then, due to projected drops in telecommunications costs, decline to about $3.1
million by the year 2005.
Table 1- Incremental Recurrent Costs of the VIGIA Project (in 1,000 US$)'-3
Salaries                                      -    36   144  774   1,062 1,062 1,062
Maintenance of Sentinel Units                 -    -    -    -       580  580  580
Implementation of Risk Factor and Non-        -    -    -    -       500  500  500
Communicable Disease Surveillance                             I     I     I
Maintenance of Telecommunications System      -    350  1,660 1,310 1,048 917  852
DOTS (Tuberculosis)                           -    -    -    -    69   69   69
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs             -    386  1,804 2,084 3,259 3,128 3,063
Between 80 and 90 percent of the incremental recurrent costs will be incurred by the provinces. Unfortunately, no
consolidated information about provincial public spending on health surveillance exists at central level. Although
analysis of project sustainability at provincial level could not be achieved during project preparation because it requires a
separate investigation of spending on health surveillance in each of the twenty-three provinces and the federal capital.
Sustainability at provincial level, however, is not an issue: the incremental recurrent costs associated with VIGIA
represent only about 0. 1 percent of annual health spending by the provinces ($ 4.4 billion/year, excluding transfers from
the federal government and excluding spending by Obras Sociales). The real issue is not the provinces' ability to finance
the incremental recurrent costs, but their willingness to do so. The analysis below supposes, hypothetically, that the
provinces are unwilling or unable to finance the incremental recurrent costs and that the federal Ministry of Health has to
pick up the tab. The analytical strategy adopted here is to argue that if the project is sustainable in the absence of
provincial financing - although it is clear that the provincial governments are responsible for part of these recurrent costs -
it is a fortiori sustainable when provinces pick up their share of the incremental recurrent costs. Note that the analysis
must not be read to mean that the federal government should pick up the tab; rather it should be read as a worst-case
scenario that the project appraisal team does not expect to happen. In order to minimize the risks, the participation
agreements (cf. section C.4 of PAD) that will be signed between the provinces and the federal Ministry of Health contain
explicit clauses to ensure that the provinces will deploy the necessary financial, personnel and administrative resources for
the implementation of the project. The risk that particular provinces refuse to sign these agreements and refrain from
participating in the project is negligible: all the provinces have expressed a strong interest in participating in the scheme
with no further delay (cf. section D. 1 of PAD).
13 The referred incremental recurrent costs are not financed by the project.



Annex 4                                      Page 9 of 10
2.     The effects of the global financial crisis from the third trimester of 1998 onward introduce an important element
of uncertainty into any projection of future economic growth, and consequently of future public finance. As a result of the
financial crisis, the overall public sector budget in 1998 has been reduced by about one billion dollars, with health
expenditure being reduced to an estimated $463 million as opposed to an initial budget of $509 million. In 1999, total
public expenditure and health expenditure is expected to remain about the same in absolute values as the modified
expenditure of 1998. Two scenarios have been developed to estimate the resources available for health: 1) a baseline
scenario using CAS projections of GDP growth (2% in 1999, 4.5% in 2000, and 5% from 2001 onward) and a non-linear
decline of the ratio of public expenditure to GDP stabilizing at about 23% by the year 2003; 2) a pessimistic scenario
assuming GDP growth of 2% from 1999 onward with a constant public expenditure to GDP ratio from 1998 onward. In
both scenarios, it is assumed that health expenditure remains a constant proportion of total public sector expenditure using
1997 as the point of reference. It is also assumed that the proportions of overall health expenditure allocated to theMoH
budget and to disease control and surveillance remain constant with relation to the previsions for 1999.
Main Results
1.    As can be seen in Tables 2 and 3, there is a positive financial margin of maneuver in both projected scenarios.
The margin of maneuver is calculated as the difference between the additional resources available any particular year to
the MoH (relative to 1998) and the additional recurrent costs generated by the project. With baseline assumptions, the
margin of maneuver drops to a low of $1 million in year 2000. The pessimistic scenario would leave a minimum margin
of maneuver of $800,000 in year 2000. Incremental recurrent costs are expected to decline after the implementation
period because improved surveillance helps check the spread of epidemics earlier and thus contributes to lower health care
costs.
2.     According to these projections, the project is judged to be marginally sustainable both during its lifetime and in
the period after its completion. However, the financial cushion is very thin and warrants close and continuous monitoring
of the evolution of both public finances and project-related incremental costs. In addition, the availability of funds at the
MoH level does not in and of itself guarantee that these funds will be directed towards project-related activities. It is
therefore strongly recommended that plans be made for the allocation of specific recurrent budgets to ensure the adequate
financing of project-related activities during and after the implementation period. If public finances do not meet current
expectations, the project should revisit the sequence of implementation and focus on priority activities.
Table 2- Sustainability of the VIGIA Project: Baseline Scenario (in 1,000 US$)
1998      462,727           73,330                           __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
1999      461,181           73,085              (245)                -             (245)
2000      471,992           74,798              1,468               386             1,082
2001      486,765           77,139              3,809              1,804           2,005
2002      503,075           79,724              6,394              2,084           4,310
2003      520,794           82,532              9,202              3,259            5,943
2004      546,834           86,659             13,329              3,128           10,200
2005      574,175           90,992             17,662              3,063           14,599



Annex 4                                       Page 10 of 1O
Table 3- Sustainability of the VIGIA Project: Pessimistic Scenario (in 1,000 US$)
YeatVir d _,' in
A,vailabff+      .-~   Act -~ $-wv.jfac 7',''=J
.i istryof H : :  eait -.  
1998      462,727           73,330       _
1999      461,181           73,085               (245)                 -              (245)
2000      470,405            74,547              1,217                386              831
2001      479,813            76,038              2,708               1,804            904
2002      489,409           77,558               4,228               2,084            2,144
2003      499,197           79,110               5,780               3,259            2,520
2004      509,181            80,692              7,362               3,128            4,234
2005      519,365            82,306              8,976               3,063            5,913



Annex 5: Financial Summary
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (VIGI-A)
Year I      l Year 2          Year 3    l    Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          7.4            26.6          24.0           12.0
Recurrent Costs          0.5              1.1            1.2            1.7
Front-end Fee             0.5
Total Financing              8.4             27.7          25.2           13.7
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  4.6            22.0          17.7            8.2
Government                3.8             5.7           7.5            5.5
Total Project Financing   8.4            27.7          25.2           13.7



Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out using standard contract documents acceptable to the
World Bank, and the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January
1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997
and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table A.
Procurement activities will be carried out by an existing central unit in the Ministry of Health and Social Action.
The Operational Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the standard bidding documents
to be used in each case, as well as standard contracts to be awarded on the basis of quotations."4
Procurement of Goods
Goods including computer hardware and software, vehicles, office equipment, fumigation and laboratory
equipment, chemicals, medical equipment, teaching and training material, brochures and public information
documents for the total amount of US$9.725 million, out of which the Bank will finance US$6.72 million
equivalent shall be procured in accordance with:
(a) Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for laboratory equipment, hardware, surveillance
software, and chemicals among others estimated to cost more than US$350,000 equivalent per contract shall be
procured following ICB procedures, using the Bank's standard bidding documents.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Contracts for training material, technical information, documentation,
and office equipment estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured following
NCB procedures using model bidding documents acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$2.7 million equivalent.
(c) Price Comparison (National /International Shopping). Goods such as, laboratory software, laboratory
equipment, vehicles, and bulletins among others, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract
up to an aggregate amount of US$0.775 million equivalent would be procured through price comparison.
Procurement of Civil works
The project will finance small civil works for the total amount of US$5.45 million equivalent, out of which
US$3.715 million will be financed under the loan. These civil works comprise the refurbishment and upgrading
of physical infrastructure of existing laboratories.
(a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Civil works, including upgrading of existing infrastructure and
laboratories estimated to cost more than US$350,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured following NCB
procedures, using model bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of Small Works
(b) Price Comparison (PC). Civil works, including upgrading of existing infrastructure and laboratories expected
to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through comparison of at least three
quotations from qualified contractors under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.9 million equivalent. No civil works contracts are expected to cost more than US$1.8 million equivalent.
4 Where no relevant standard contract exists, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank



Annex 6                                         Page 2 of 8
Consultants' Services
Consulting services including, among others, technical assistance, sector studies, scholarships and training
activities, development and maintenance of a database telecommunications system, and a risk factors survey, for
the total amount of US$37.3 million equivalent, out of which the Bank will finance US$29.74 million equivalent
shall be contracted in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised on September 1997 and January 1999).
(a)    Consultants' Services for sector studies will be hired through Quality-and-Cost-based Selection (QCBS)
for contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more, totaling about US$15.4 million equivalent.
(b)    Small contracts with firms for technical assistance not to exceed US$200,000 would be contracted
following QCBS or Least-Cost Selection (LCS), as the Bank may reasonably determine, and very small technical
assistance or training contracts with organizations not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent would be contracted
under Least-Cost Selection (LCS) up to an aggregate amount of US$5.3 million. Contracts for training not
expected to exceed US$45,000 each up to an aggregate of amount of US$3.5 million equivalent shall be awarded
on the basis of Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications (SCQ).
(c)    The project will also finance regional workshops throughout the country and high-level research projects
under Component I. Operational Research Fund, for a total of US$3.0 million allocated to subprojects submitted
by NGOs, research organizations, and public and private universities'5. Grant recipients will be selected based on
the criteria outlined in the Operational Manual.
Individual consultants, trainers and visiting professors for an aggregate amount of approximately US$5.54 million
would be hired on the basis of their qualifications, in accordance with the procedures described in Section 5 of the
Consultant Guidelines. Whenever possible, the Project may publish requests of interest in individual assignments
in national and international media.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Bank's prior review would be required for:
(a) Goods:
(i) all contracts to be awarded under ICB; and
(ii) the first contract awarded following NCB for each year.
(b) Civil works:
(i) all NCB contracts estimated to cost more than US$750,000 equivalent; and
(ii) the first NCB contract each year regardless of the amount.
(c) Consultants' services:
(i) for consulting firms, all contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more;
(ii) for individual consultants, all contracts estimated to cost US$50,000/year or more;
(iii) contracts of a critical nature, regardless of the estimated cost, as may be reasonably determined by the
Bank; and
(iv) key staff positions in the Project Coordinating Unit.
(d)    all contracts with Universities for subprojects under Component I estimated to cost US$500,000 or more.
15 Public universities being awarded research grants, will have as eligible expenses only the ones related to the research objectives (i.e.
incremental costs resulting from research), and not already budgeted in national funding, as per the GoA guidelines.



Annex 6                                     Page 3 of 8
Under current prior review arrangements it is expected that 12% of the contracts for goods, 22% of the contracts
for civil works and 38% of consulting services contracts would be subject to prior review, representing 68%, 56%
and 44%, respectively of funds allocated to each category.
Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which provided the basis for the
aggregate amounts for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed to at negotiations. At the beginning of each
calendar year, the Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year
which shall include ICB and NCB procedures, smaller procurement and consulting services and training as well as the
number and estimated costs for the subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan in accordance with the original
Procurement Plan.
Procurement Audits
Annual procurement audits will be carried out by an independent extemal firm under terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, in order to determine compliance with Bank's guidelines in project procurement. These procurement audits may be
combined with the annual financial audits or carried out independently, as the Bank may reasonably determine, and
submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 of each year of project execution. The agency or specialized consultants'
services would be procured by December 31, 1999.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
An assessment of the agency in charge of implementing procurement actions for the project has been carried out
identifying the organizational structure of the proposed PCU, the interaction between the project's Procurement Officer
and the Ministry of Health's central unit for administration and finance (Unidad Central deAdministraci6n y Finanzas)
and were found acceptable. The project's risk factor is considered Average. The assessment has been cleared by the
Regional Procurement Advisor and is available in the project files.
Disbursement
The proposed loan will disburse over a period of four years. The closing date is April 30, 2004, and the
completion date October 31, 2003. Disbursements will be made for (i) 70% of civil works other than subprojects,
including refurbishment and upgrading of physical infrastructure of existing laboratories (totaling US$3.4 million); (ii)
70% of goods including vehicles, computer hardware and software, office equipment, fumigation and laboratory
equipment, chemicals, medical equipment, teaching and training material, brochures, and public information documents
(US$6.1 million); (iii) 80% of consulting services and training (US$26.8 million); (iv) 80% of withdrawals under Project
Administration until withdrawals under this category reach an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000; 70% until
withdrawals under this category have reached an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,200,000; and 30% thereafter; (v) and
the front-end fee (US$ 0.525 million). The retroactive financing amount was established at US$2,500,000. Assuming that
loan signing will be no later than September 1, 1999, all expenses (goods, consultant services and project administration)
incurred from September 1, 1998 are eligible for retroactive financing since they are in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be completed over a four-year period. Funds will be disbursed according to the
categories and percentages shown in Table C of this annex. The Government's counterpart funds needed for each fiscal
year to cover the share of total project expenses not financed by the Bank will be allocated in each year's budget made
available for the Project.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements of the loan proceeds for contracts for goods other than subprojects valued at less than US$350,000
for goods, US$750,000 for civil and US$100,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 with individual consultants;



Annex 6                                   Page 4 of 8
training, and project administration costs will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation
supporting claims under SOEs will be retained by the PCU and made available for review and examination by auditors
and Bank supervision members. This will be phased out when the project is converted to PMR disbursement, as per the
plan of action agreed upon.
Special account:
To facilitate the management of funds, the Government will establish one Special Account (SA), to be opened in
Banco de la Naci6n Argentina and operated by the Ministry of Health and Social Action (PCU) under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Where the project is considered LACI compliant and ready for PMR disbursements,
the special account will be replenished based on the PMRs submitted by the PCU, after certification by an auditor. The
initial disbursement will be based on the first six-month expenditure forecast for the first year of the project. When the
project's financial management arrangements do not allow for PMR disbursements, to facilitate disbursements against
eligible expenditures, the Bank would, upon request, make authorized allocation of US$ 2.0 million to the SA for all
expenditures. Replenishment of the SA would follow Bank procedures. The PCU would submit replenishment
applications on a monthly basis, or when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first.
The replenishment applications would be supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of
the SA against the Bank's records. The minimum amount for application for direct payment and for special commitment
would be 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA. The project would be audited annually, including a review of
procurement by an independent auditing agency acceptable to the Bank.
The Bank Financial Management Specialist has reviewed the financial management system related to this project. The
review, which included visits to the project unit, concluded that the unit has an adequate accounting system, financial
reporting systems and segregation of duties to ensure the provision of accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures. However, this project does not have in place an adequate financial management system that
can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project's "Project
Management Reports"(PMRs) as required by the Bank under the LACI system for PMR-based disbursements. An action
plan was defined and it was agreed during negotiations with the Finance and Administration Manager that the system will
be implemented no later than six months after the effectiveness date (for further detail see the document in the project
files).



Annex 6                                        Page 5 of 8
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements"
(in US$million equivalent)
1. Works                                  0.0            4.5          0.9                             545
(0.0)        (3.25)        (0.45          (-)3.15)
2. Goods                                   4.0           4.0          1.725                           9.725
(2.7)         (2.7)        (1.32)         (-)(6.72)
3. Consultants' Services and                                           37.3                            37.3
Training                                  ( - )         ( - )        (29.74)         ( - )           (29.74)
4. Grants                                                              11.5                            11.5
( - )   ( - )       ~~(9.2)        (-)(9.2)
5. Project Administration*                                             6.0                             6.0
(- )   ( - )        ~~~(2.6)       (-)(2.6)
6. Recurrent costs                                                                    4.5              4.5
( - )   ( - )    ( - )         ~~~~(0.0)         (0.0)
7. Front-end fee                                                      0.525                           0.525
( - )         ( - 3        (0.525)        (-)              (0.525)
Total                                   4.0           8.5           58.0           4.5              75.0
(2.7)        (5.95)        (43.85)        (0.0)             (52.5)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Other = National or International Shopping
Detailed procurement methodologies in Table Al below
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
*Project Administration includes: (i) PCU technical and managerial staff, with exception of the core technical team
within MSAS; (ii) domestic and international travel and per diem for PCU staff; (iii) training of PCU staff, and (iv)
equipment, materials and office supplies.
16 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



Annex 6                                 Page 6 of 8
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
j Q~~CBS            QBS    S B         L    S       SC Q  Other          N-B-F- 
A. Firms              18.6                             6.6       4.36                                 29.56
(15.4)_                            (5.3)   (3.5)      (  )       (  )(24.2)
B. Individuals                          l                        7.74   _      _                       7.74
_  _  _   __  ( ~~ )  ( ~ )  (~ )  _  ( ~ )      (5.54)    (            ~)(5.54)
Total     18.6                             6.6       12.1   _       _                    37.3
(15.4)     (-)        (-)        (5.3)     (9.04)     (-)        (-)           (29.74)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 6                               Page 7 of 8
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review17
uJS thousands                                US $ millins
1. Civil Works
Reffirbishment and         >350                    NCB               First contract each year
upgrading                                                            All >750
<350              Three quotations           None
2. Goods
Hardware & soft.,          >350                    ICB                      All
office eq, chemicals
medical eq., training        100-350              NCB                First contract each year
material, brochures
<100              National/Intl'             None
Shopping
3. Consultants' Services
and Training
- Firms
T/A, Sector Studies        >200                  QCBS                       All
T/A, Sector Studies        <200               QCBS/LCS                      All
T/A, Training              <100                    LCS               ToRs only
Training                     <45                   SCQ               ToRs only
- Individuals            >50              Individuals                   All
<50              Individuals            ToRs only
4. Administration
Costs
Staff (Consultants)         >50               Individuals            All
<50              Individuals            ToRs only
5. Grants                  >500                                             All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$32.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
17 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6                                   Page 8 of 8
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Civil works                              3.4                            70%
2. Goods                                    6.1                            70%
3. Consulting Services &                   26.8                            80%
Training
4. Grants                                   8.3                   80% of amounts disbursed
5. Project                                  2.7                 80% until withdrawals under
Administration*                                                 this Category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,200,000; 70% until
withdrawals under this
category have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent to
_________________________ _$2,200,000; and 30% thereafter
6.  Unallocated                             4.675
7. Front-end Fee                            0.525
Total                                      52.5
* Project Administration includes: (i) PCU technical and managerial staff, with exception of the core technical team
within MSAS; (ii) domestic and international travel; (iii) training of PCU staff; and (iv) equipment, materials and
supplies.



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (VIGI-A)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           12                    21
First Bank mission (identification)                3/6/98                3/6/98
Appraisal mission departure                        2/27/99               2/27/99
Negotiations                                       4/19/99              06/1_1/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      8/1/99               01/31/00
Prepared by: Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS)
Preparation assistance: none
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Anabela Abreu                                      Task Team Leader
Alexandre Abrantes                                 Country Sector Leader
Xavier Coll                                        Sector Director
Charles Gri n                                      Lead Specialist, Health
Myma Alexander                                     Country Director
Christian Hurtado                                  Engineer/MIS Specialist
Girindre Beeharry                                  Economic Analysis
Dariush Akhavan                                    Health Economist
Stephen Ostroff                                    Epidemiological Surveillance
Denise Koo                                         Health Information Systems
Meade Morgan                                       Telecommunications
James LeDuc                                        Laboratory Expert
Francisco Pinheiro                                 Biosafety Specialist
David McQueen                                      Chronic Disease Surveillance
Bernard Montaville                                 Surveillance Specialist
Rjurik Golugatnikov                                Surveillance Specialist
Maria Clara Rillos-Mendes                         Institutional Assessment
Jose Moscoso                                       Procurement Specialist
Teresa Genta-Fons                                  Senior Legal Counsel
Thomas Novotny                                     Peer Reviewer
Prabhat Jha                                        Peer Reviewer
Marlo Libel,                                       External Reviewer (PAHO)
John Wilson                                        Consultant
Diana Weil                                         Tuberculosis Specialist
Aracelly Woodall                                   Project Costing
Marian Kaminskis                                   Team Assistant



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Argentina: Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (VIGI-A)
A. Project Coordination Unit Documents
1. Operational Manual. VIGI-A Project Coordination Team
2. Project Implementation Plan. VIGI-A Project Coordination Team
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Institutional Assessment. Maria Clara Rillos-Mendes. May, 1998.
2. Data Telecommunications Plan for Project VIGI-A. Meade Morgan. December 28,
1998.
3. Assessment of Laboratory Infrastructure. James LeDuc and Francisco Pinheiro. June
27-28,1998.
4. Public Health Surveillance in Argentina. Stephen Ostroff and Denise Koo. July 1998.
5. Chronic Disease Surveillance in Argentina David McQueen. November, 1998.
6. Procurement Capacity Assessment. Jos6 Moscoso. April, 1999.
7. Financial Management Assessment. Susana Cirigliano. April 1999.
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Argentina Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGI-A)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions             and actual                Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                    disbursements a/       Supervision Rating
Project ID     Year          Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.  Und       Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev        Imp
isb                            Obj     Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 59
Active Projects
AR-PE-5968       1987  SEGBA                        SEGBA V                        276.00       0.00      0.00    50.82      50.82      0.00      HU         U
AR-PE-5977       1991  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC          WTR SUPPLY II                   100.00       0.00     36.00    17.25     53.25      17.25       S         S
AR-PE-6036       1993  GOVERNMENT                   YACYRETA II                    300.00       0.00      0.00       .48       .47      0.00      HU         U
AR-PE-6003       1993  GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA  RD MAINT & REHAB SCT               340.00       0.00      0.00    25.61      18.63      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-6062       1994  MIN OF ECONOMY              CAPITAL MKT TA                    8.50       0.00      0.00     2.37      2.35       0.00       S         S
AR-PE-6025       1994  GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA  MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N               100.00       0.00      0.00     8.05       4.75      0.00      HS        HS
AR-PE-6060       1995  GOVT OF ARGENTINA           MUNIC DEVT II                   210.00       0.00      0.00   152.71    -21.27       0.00      HS        HS
AR-PE-6018       1995  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC           PROV DEVT II                   225.00       0.00      0.00   167.65       4.65      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-5992       1995  GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA  SECONDARY ED I                     190.00       0.00      0.00   130.46   114.17        0.00       S         S
AR-PE-45687      1996  REP. OF ARGRNTINA            H.INSURANCE TA                  25.00       0.00      0.00     4.29        .19      0.00      HS        HS
AR-PE-38883      1996  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA    ENT.EXPORT DV.                      38.50       0.00      0.00    17.73     17.72       3.50       S         S
AR-PE-37049      1996  GOVT OF ARGENTINA            PUB.INV.STRENGTHG               16.00       0.00      0.00    15.32     10.32       0.00       U        U
AR-PE-34091      1996  REP OF ARGENTINA             HIGHER ED REFORM               165.00       0.00      0.00   112.85     79.61      61.86       S         S
AR-PE-6057       1996  GOV'T OF ARGENTINA           SECNDARY ED 2                  115.50       0.00      0.00    99.02      52.82   -16.48        S         S
AR-PE-6055       1996  GOVT. OF ARGENTINA          MINING SCTR DEVT                 30.00       0.00      0.00     6.36     -2.54       0.00      HS        HS
AR-PE-6040       1996  GOVERNMENT                   FORESTRY/DV                     16.00       0.00      0.00    11.51        .42      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-6030       1996  REPUB OF ARGENTINA           PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV           101.40       0.00      0.00    81.95     53.94       0.00       S         S
AR-PE-46821      1997  GOVT.OF ARG                  PENSION TA                      20.00       0.00      0.00    11.64       -.99      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-43418      1997  REPUBLIC OF ARG             AIDS PREV.&STD CTRL              15.00       0.00      0.00     9.20       -.56      0.00      HS        HS
AR-PE-40808      1997  GOA                         N.FOREST/PROTC                   19.50       0.00      0.00    17.81       -.89      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-39584      1997  GOVT OF ARGENTINA            B.A.URB.TSP                    200.00       0.00      0.00   177.34      29.35      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-6059       1997  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC          MTL.CHD.HTH.2                   100.00       0.00      0.00    86.69       -.33      0.00       S        HS
AR-PE-6052       1997  GOVT OF ARGENTINA            FLOOD PROTECTION               200.00       0.00      0.00   192.37      18.37      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-6010       1997  GOA                          PROV AG DEVT I                 125.00       0.00      0.00   122.15       8.80      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-5980       1997  GOVT OF ARGENTINA            PROV ROADS                     300.00       0.00      0.00  294.85       64.84      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-55935      1998  GOVERNMENT                   EL NINO EMERGENCY               42.00       0.00      0.00    42.00      18.00      0.00       S         U
AR-PE-55477      1998  GOVT OF ARGENTINA           MINING TA                        39.50       0.00      0.00    39.50      16.60      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-52590      1998  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA    NAT HWY REHAB&MAINT                450.00       0.00      0.00   423.00    192.57       0.00       S         S
AR-PE-51695      1998  GOVERNMENT                   P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                  75.00       0.00      0.00    25.00       0.00      0.00       S         S
AR-PE-51694      1998  GOVERNMENT                   P.RFM(S.JUAN)                   50.00       0.00      0.00    40.00     25.00       0.00       S         S
AR-PE-51693      1998  GOVERNMENT                   P.RFM(SALTA)                    75.00       0.00      0.00    30.00       0.00      0.00       S         S



Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual               Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                  disbursements a/       Supervision Rating
b/
Project ID     Year          Borrower                   Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.  Und      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev        Imp
isb                           Obj      Prog
AR-PE-50714      1998  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA    SECOND.ED 3                       119.00      0.00      0.00    84.25      69.05      0.00      S         S
AR-PE-50713      1998  MINISTRY OF ECONOMY         MODEL COURT DEV.                 5.00      0.00      0.00     5.00       1.05      0.00      S         S
AR-PE-49269      1998  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC          SOC PROTEC 3                   284.00      0.00      0.00  254.00   -30.00         0.00      S         S
AR-PE-6050       1998  REP OF ARGENTINA            POLLUTION MGT.                  18.00      0.00      0.00    18.00       1.76      0.00      S         S
AR-PE-6041       1998  GOVERNMENT                  SMALL FARMER DV.                75.00      0.00      0.00   71.38       16.30      -.12       S        S
AR-PE-6006       1998  MIN. OF ECONOMY             P.RFM(TUCUMAN)                 100.00      0.00      0.00    45.00       0.00      0.00      S         S
AR-PE-62992      1999  GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA  SPEC REPURCHASE                   505.05      0.00      0.00  505.05        0.00      0.00       S        S
AR-PE-62991      1999  GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA  SPECIAL SAL (SSAL)              2,525.25      0.00      0.00 1,500.         0.00      0.00       S        S
00
AR-PE-57449      1999  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA    ARG YEAR 2000                      30.30      0.00      0.00    30.30       0.00      0.00 C              S
AR-PE-6058       1999  REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA    SOC.PROTECT 4                      90.75      0.00      0.00    90.75       0.00      0.00      HS        HS
Total                                                                           7,720.25      0.00    36.00 5,019.       869.22      66.01
71
Active Projects        Closed            Total
Projects
Total Disbursed (IBRD and             2,664.54          8,386.04        11,050.58
IDA):
of which has been                 213.38         3,358.48         3,571.86
repaid:
Total now held by IBRD and            7,470.86         5,035.79         12,506.65
IDA:
Amount sold                                0.00            12.79            12.79
Of which repaid                         0.00            12.79            12.79
Total Undisbursed                     5,019.71              8.20         5,027.91
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP) , a letter based system was introduced (HS   hiqhly SatisfactorY, S
satisfactory, U = uiisatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology
(SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9 (cont.)
Statement of IFC Loans and Credits
Argentina Disease Surveillance and Control Project (V1GI-A)
As of 30-Nov-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval          Company         Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1960/95/97            Acindar             35.00    16.43   10.00     61.11   35.00   16.43   10.00      56.11
1977/84/86/88/94/96   Alpargatas          24.23     6.05    6.37     89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37      48.79
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96   Minetti          10.00     0.00   10.00     27.27   10.00    0.00   10.00      27.27
1986/89/91/97         Banco Roberts-AL    10.00     0.00    0.00      0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1987                  BGN-TBR               .07     0.00    0.00      0.00      .07    0.00    0.00      0.00
1987/89               BGN-Bolland           .09     0.00    0.00      0.00      .09    0.00    0.00      0.00
1987/89/90/96/97      Terrninal 6         18.53     0.00    0.00      17.87   17.23    0.00    0.00     16.17
1987/92               BRLP                 7.53     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1988/93               Bunge y Born         2.66     0.00    0.00     20.05    2.66    0.00    0.00      20.05
1989                  BGN-Algodonera        .11     0.00    0.00      0.00      .11    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                  BGN-Ferrum            .33     0.00    0.00      0.00      .33    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                  BGN-                  .05     0.00    0.00      0.00      .05    0.00    0.00      0.00
FRIGOTOBA
1989                  BGN-Interpack         .10     0.00    0.00      0.00      .10    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                  BGN-Parafma           .25     0.00    0.00      0.00      .25    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989                  BGN-Willmor           .28     0.00    0.00      0.00      .28    0.00    0.00      0.00
1989/96               Banco Frances        4.31     0.00    0.00      0.00    4.31    0.00    0.00       0.00
1990                  CIP                  0.00      .08    0.00      0.00    0.00      .08    0.00      0.00
1990/94               Petroken            19.39     0.00    5.00      3.65   19.39    0.00    5.00       3.65
1991                  BCA                   .39     0.00    0.00       .50      .39    0.00    0.00       .50
1992                  FEPSA                6.40     0.00    0.00      4.40    6.40    0.00    0.00       4.40
1992                  Oleaginosa Oeste     4.58     0.00    5.00      5.60    4.58    0.00    5.00       5.60
1992                  Rioplatense          5.33     1.00    0.00       1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00      1.67
1992                  San Jorge            0.00    27.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1992/93/96            Malteria Pampa      10.59     0.00    1.00      7.84   10.59    0.00    1.00       7.84
1992/95               Bridas              32.26     0.00    0.00     51.38   32.26    0.00    0.00      51.38
1993                  Argentina Equity     0.00     4.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00       0.00
1993                  Nuevo Central        5.00     3.00    0.00      7.50    5.00    3.00    0.00       7.50
1993                  Yacylec              7.15     5.04    0.00      18.96    7.15    5.04    0.00     18.96
1993/94               Molinos              0.00     5.55    0.00      0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00       0.00
1994                  AceiteraChabas       0.00     3.10    0.00      0.00    0.00    3.10    0.00       0.00
1994                  Aceitera General    12.50     6.90    0.00      0.00   12.50    6.90    0.00       0.00
1994                  BGN                 12.00     0.00    3.00      0.00   12.00    0.00    3.00       0.00
1994                  LBAR                 0.00     1.17    0.00      0.00    0.00    1.06    0.00       0.00
1994                  LBAV                 0.00     3.62    0.00      0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00       0.00
1994                  Quilmes             10.28     0.00    0.00      7.50   10.28    0.00    0.00       7.50
1994/95               EDENOR              14.63     0.00   15.00     23.50   14.63    0.00   15.00      23.50
1994/95/96            Aguas               66.85     7.00    0.00    198.61   66.85    7.00    0.00    198.61
1994/95/97            La Maxima            0.00    16.49    1.90      0.00    0.00   14.22    1.86       0.00
1995                  Banco Roberts        0.00     0.00   20.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00       0.00
1995                  CEPA                10.33     0.00    0.00       1.80   10.33    0.00    0.00      1.80
1995                  Mastellone           0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
1995                  Nahuelsat           25.00     5.00    0.00      0.00   25.00    5.00    0.00       0.00
1995                  SanCor              16.25     0.00   20.00     18.00   16.25    0.00   20.00      18.00
1995                  Socma               16.67     0.00    0.00     40.00   16.67    0.00    0.00      40.00
1995                  SIDECO               0.00    15.00    0.00      0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00       0.00



Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval          Company        Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1995                 Terminales Port.      8.50    2.00    0.00      0.00    8.50    2.00    0.00      0.00
1995                 Tower Fund            0.00    15.73    0.00     0.00    0.00   11.04    0.00      0.00
1995                 Tower Fund Mgr        0.00     .14    0.00      0.00    0.00      .06    0.00     0.00
1995/97              Kleppe/Caldero       10.93     0.00    0.00     0.00    8.93    0.00    0.00      0.00
1996                 Banco Galicia        30.00    0.00    0.00    200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    200.00
1996                 Bansud               25.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    4.90    0.00    0.00      0.00
1996                 Brahma - ARG         17.07     0.00    0.00    26.40   17.07    0.00    0.00     26.40
1996                 CAPSA                12.00    0.00    5.00     33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00     33.00
1996                 Grunbaum              6.50    0.00    2.00      4.17    6.50    0.00    2.00      4.17
1996                 MBA                   0.00     .16    0.00      0.00    0.00      .16    0.00     0.00
1996                 Neuquen Basin         0.00    26.40    0.00     0.00    0.00   22.82    0.00      0.00
1996                 Refisan              20.00     0.00    0.00    27.00   20.00    0.00    0.00     27.00
1996                 Transconor           24.90    0.00   20.00    205.72   24.90    0.00   20.00    205.72
1996                 Zanon                12.83    0.00    6.00      0.00   12.83    0.00    6.00      0.00
1997                 FRIAR                10.00     0.00    2.50     7.00   10.00    0.00    2.50      7.00
1997                 Guipeba              15.00    0.00    5.00      0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00      0.00
1997                 Milkaut               9.38    0.00   10.00      4.50    9.38    0.00   10.00      4.50
1997                 T61                  10.00    0.00    5.00     30.00   10.00    0.00    5.00     30.00
1997                 Vicentin             25.00    0.00    0.00      10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00     10.00
1997/98               Suquia              35.00     0.00   10.00    25.00   35.00    0.00   10.00     25.00
1998                 AUTCL                12.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                 F.V. S.A.            12.00    0.00    4.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                 FAID                  0.00    5.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    2.75    0.00      0.00
1998                 Hospital Privado      9.60    0.00    0.00      0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                 Patagonia             5.00     0.00    1.00     0.00    5.00    0.00    1.00      0.00
1998                 Patagonia Fund        0.00    30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                 U.Belgrano            7.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:              706.85   205.86  167.77  1,179.29  632.32  135.88  163.73  1,132.09
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999                  ACINDAR EXPN           50.00    0.00    0.00   25.00
1997                  ARGIE MAE               0.00     .40    0.00   65.00
1993                  FEPSA (II)              0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1998                  HOSPITAL PRIVADO        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  MERCANTIL ARG.         20.00    0.00   15.00    0.00
1999                  MINETTI-ANDINO         30.00    0.00   14.00   70.00
1999                  S.A. SAN MIGUEL        12.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  SUQUIA CL II            5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  TGN II BLINC            0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998                  U.BELGRANO             15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        133.10     .40   29.00  174.00



Annex 10
Argentina at aL glance                                                                 9/16/98
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                            America   middle- 
Argentina   & Carib   income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year nmitions)                          35.2       494       571                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methori, USS)                    8,570     3,880      4,520
GNP (Atlls~method, USS bil/ions)                       302.0      1,917     2,584                        T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populationi (V.)'1 1.                                               1.I       1.5     GNGrs
Laborforce (%)                                           1t9        2.3       1.9      per                             p Gross
Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 1$01.97)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povewy line)     2.
Urban population (%oftotalpopulation)                    88         74         73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73         70        70
Infant morteaity (per 1,000 live births)                 22         32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                2          ..        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   64         73         79
Illiteracy (1 ofpopulation age 15+)                       4         13         15           _     ei
Gross primary enrollment (% of schod-age population)    107        t11        107              Argentna
Male                                                                                         Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios
GOP (US$ biShions)                            StE2    110.9      293.7      322.7
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 30.7      17.6       18.5      18.9                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP              9.2       8.2        8.9       8.7
GrossdomesticsavngslGDP                       34.0      19.3       18.1      18.2
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                      34.1      14.8       16.5      164
Current account balance/GDP                    1.3      -2 6        1.3      -2 9     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          0.9       3 3        1 9       2 0     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 18 1     47 3       32.4      32.4      Svn
Total deDt servicelexports                    34.4      82.8       47.2      49.3
Present value of debt/GDP                         .                29.5
Present value of debt/exports                              .     277.7
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996       1997   199802
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   0 6      3.8       4.8        8.6       4.0              Argentina
GNP per capta                        -1 9      2.9       3.7       7.1        3.1               Upper-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices             28       8.5       67         91        6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            40
Agriculture                                    8.2       7 8        7 7       7 3
Industry                                      50.9      37.4       35.5      36.4     20
Manufacturing                                39.1     27 4       24.7      24.8
Services                                      41.0      54.8       56.8      56.3     0-5
!52   93  94               96   87
Private consumption                           58.6        ..         .          ..
General govemment consumption                  9.4                                                  GDI             G GDP
mports of goods and services                   5.9      6.3        9.2        9.4
1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     1 2      2.8        3.0       3.3    100
Industry                                      -1.5       3.5        5.0      11.2
Manufacturing                                -1.3      3.0        5.3        9.2     65
Services                                       2.1       4.1        4.9       7.7     40
Private consumption                             ..        ..                          20
General government consumption                  ..        ..          .         ..
Gross domestic investment                      -4.8      7.5        8.8      26.5    -20      92   93   94           96   97
Importsofgoodsandservices                      1.1      19.5       18.2      27.1             -rsapmts          Qtmpess
Gross national product                         -0.4      4.2        4.6       8.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are m issing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation (°)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                               ..      ..        0.2      0.5     1 
Implicit GDP deflator                      433.3    75.7        1.5     -0.5     1
Government finance                                                               50 t
(% of GDP, includes crnent grants)                                              L
Current revenue                               ..       .       15.4     16.7    .50 l
Current budget balance                                 ..      -0.8     -0.4                  GDP deflator    e  cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -1.8     -1.3
TRADE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels(USSmillions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..       ..   23,493   24,970    30,000 -
Food                                        ..       ..    2,203    2,148    25,000
Meat                                         ..      ..    1,955    2,158    20,000
Manufactures                                ..        .    12,004   13,139    25000
Total imports (cif)                           ..       ..   22,179   24,619       '
Food                                        ..   ..                            is cooh i    i                 I
Fuel and energy                             ..       ..    1,009    1,022       5,00_
Capital goods                               ..              5,249    5,996
91  92  93  94  95  95  97
Export price index (1995=100)                  .       ..      104       104
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       .       104       106               *Exports     *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       ..       101       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
i 976    1986     1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services              4,609    8,433    27,037   29,318     °
Imports of goods and services              3,468    6,486    27,910   34,899
Resource balance                           1,141    1,947      -873   -5,581     u 
Net income                                  -508   -4,808    -3,248   -4,005
Net current transfers                         ..       2       334       346       t1              1    1    1
Current account balance                     657   -2,859    -3,787   -9,240    i3
Financing ntems (net)                       261    1,976      7,563   12,302
Changes in net reserves                    -918      883    -3,776   -3,062    X4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..  4,427    19,745   22,807
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lSS)         2.OOE-9  9.OOE-5       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       9,278   52,450    96,677  104,539
IBRD                                      343    1,140      5,372    5,494                        A: 5.494    19
IDA                                         0        0         0         0          G: 26,250
Total debt service                         1,616    7,323    14,965   17,264                        _D:4,767
IBRD                                       44      210       608       635
IDA.                                        0        0         0         0                                    E: 11,215
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0        3          ..
Official creditors                         42      268      1,449      758
Private creditors                        1,078     375      4,709    6,690
Foreign direct investment                   0      574      1,936    3,000
Portfolio equity                            0        0                                         F 50,194
World Bank program
Commitments                               115      724       946    1,221      A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              20      408      1,077      797     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                       19      134       282       299     C - IMF                      0 - Short-term
Net flows                                    1     273       795       498
Interest payments                          25       75       326       335
Net transfers                             -24      198       469       162
Development Economics                                                                                             9/16198



Annex 11
Argentina Disease Surveillance & Control Project
Public Health Surveillance in Argentina
General Background
Argentina is a federal republic composed of 23 provinces and a capital district containing a
population of approximately 35 million persons. There was no organized, national surveillance
system for health monitoring until 1960; the current system was established by law at that time
and has been intermittently modified since then (most recently in 1993).
Data systems
There are essentially five systems used for health monitoring in Argentina. They are (1) the birth
registration system, (2) the death registration system, (3) the hospital discharge data system, (4)
the national reference laboratory system, and (5) the notifiable diseases system.
Sistema Nacional de Vigilancia Epidemiologica (SINA VE)
Policies and conditions under surveillance
There are nearly 50 conditions which are nationally notifiable in Argentina. The list of notifiable
diseases is based on the 1993 revisions to the reporting law plus diseases which have been added
since that time (i.e., hantavirus). The conditions which are monitored are established in
consultation between the national epidemiology unit and the provincial epidemiologists, who
meet twice per year. (There is also a smaller group, the Comisi6n Nacional de Epidemiologia,
that meets on a bimonthly basis with MSAS staff; this group, which includes 6 provincial
epidemiologists, also advises the MSAS on epidemiology and surveillance issues).
Organization of the system
At the provincial and national level, a central epidemiology unit (Direccion de Epidemiologia at
the national level) is responsible for receiving and recording disease reports. There are also a
number of vertical programs with responsibility for control of specific diseases or health
problems, many of them located in this same unit.
Reporting procedures
At the national level, there are essentially only two commonly utilized "forms": the L2 forn, used
for recording and reporting laboratory results, and the C2 form, used for recording and reporting
notifiable diseases. The national epidemiology group has developed a model C2 form, but this
has been modified in the provinces, and as such there is no form standardization. Due to the
multiple levels and modes of data transmission, coupled with personnel deficiencies, there are
substantial lag times in the reporting system. Cases will often not reach the provincial level for
several weeks (although this depends on the disease), and further delays may occur in
transmission to the national level.
Capacity issues
Surveillance capacity, including personnel and physical infrastructure, is highly variable in
Argentina. In many local districts, data are hand-tabulated and transmitted to the district or
province by mail, telephone, fax, vehicle, or any combination of these. Capacity at the provincial
level is also quite variable. Many provinces have computers to enter data and generate reports.
Some simply use the computer for data entry but still generate hand-tabulated reports. Most of
' This annex is based on the report prepared by Stephen Ostroff and Denise Koo, July 1998



Annex 1I                               Page 2 of 3
the provinces submit weekly summary tables by fax in various formats. Some submit a list with
only those diseases identified during the reporting period, and the epidemiology unit assumes if
the disease is not listed the value is zero.  The current system  usually requires repeated
communications between the provincial and national levels to interpret submitted data, change
numbers, or collect missing information.
At the national level, the central epi unit staffing and equipment appears limited. There are only
11 staff members: 2-3 persons responsible for data input and tabulation (one is training to be a
computer specialist); 6 physicians responsible for the analytic and some of the program work, but
only four of whom work full-time; and one person who compiles data from the national
laboratory system.
Data dissemination and quality
The national epi unit produces simple summary reports of weekly and annual data. These data
are distributed to other MSAS staff and to the provinces each week. However, there are not
sufficient staff to perform regular analyses of the data (except for meningitis, measles, hantavirus,
and dengue during the dengue season). In addition, there is no regular epidemiologic bulletin that
discusses current diseases, problems of interest, or interprets surveillance information. Some of
the provinces produce annual or half-yearly reports. One province produces its own weekly
reports.
Data use: disease investigations
Investigative capacity at the national and provincial level appears quite limited. At the provincial
level, outbreak investigation and control is the responsibility of the municipality or district if the
problem does not transcend jurisdictional lines. If the outbreak is big, localities may call adjacent
districts for assistance. In some instances, personnel from the province may be called upon, or
may go, to assist. However, because of personnel limitations, often these investigations are brief
and control measures are not based upon systematically collected or analyzed data.
Other forms of surveillance
The major alternative to notifiable disease surveillance in Argentina is the network of provincial
and regional laboratories developed under the auspices of the national reference laboratory center
(ANLIS).
General issues/assessment of needs
>  Coordination/standardization.   The current surveillance system  needs and deserves
leadership and coordination from the national level. There is a need to collect nationally
representative data in uniform fashion, for appropriate analysis and interpretation. Currently
each jurisdiction does things in different ways, including data collection, investigation,
recording, and reporting. There is a need for a standardized document which clearly stipulates
how diseases are defined for purposes of surveillance, how data are collected, and how the
data should be reported. The current revision of the SINAVE manual will address this type
of action.
> Integration. Although communications exist between SINAVE, the disease-specific
programs, and ANLIS, each component appears to be functioning independently and not
effectively sharing information. An efficient means to clearly link epidemiologic and
laboratory data at the provincial and national level is necessary, and to efficiently link
programmatically collected data and SINAVE data.



Annex 11                               Page 3 of 3
)  Communication. The current system  introduces delays and inaccuracies, and there is no
current method to easily query or correct data except through laborious telephone or fax
contact. Building an efficient network for data collection and transmission is considered a
high priority for the project, in conjunction with the revision of the system.
> Consolidation/assessment. The current number of diseases and the frequency of occurrence
of the disease syndromes (i.e., diarrhea, respiratory infections) places enormous strain on the
system to collect and compile disease reports. For some diseases, information collection may
be appropriate at the local level, but the need for such reports to move through the system is
not needed. A number of the conditions on the current list can be questioned in terms of
essential factors like accuracy of diagnosis, timeliness of reporting, reliability,
generalizability, and importance. Whenever possible, the notifiable disease list should be
truncated and consolidated, and efforts made to develop alternative data collection methods
which would provide higher quality data in a more efficient manner, in order to appropriately
target control programs.
> Training and capacity building. There is a great need to have well trained personnel at all
levels of the system. At present, the number of persons involved in disease monitoring
appears to be insufficient to generate necessary data. At the local level, many cases are not
properly investigated. At the national level, there are personnel shortages. Even with
simplification of the disease reporting burden, there will still be critical staffing needs,
particularly for greater oversight of data collection and quality, conducting training,
computerization, and data analysis.
t Analytic capability. The current system is geared to generating numbers and producing
disease rates, generally at the expense of data analysis and interpretation. There is minimal
analytic capability at all levels of the system.
t Quality control. Since the system generates only summary numbers for most of the
syndromes, even at the local level, it is not possible to determine what proportion of cases
meet case definitions for disease.
> Investigation. In addition to insufficient analytic capability, the current system's ability to
conduct meaningful investigations is limited. This includes outbreak response capacity at all
levels of the system, and epidemiologic studies to address priority diseases.
> Reporting of data/feedback. At present, other than summary tables, the Argentine system
does not produce periodic bulletins or provide consistent feedback to disease reporters.
> Alternative surveillance methods. There is a need to determine the best methods to collect
data of sufficient quality for use in development of control programs. In many instances, this
could be accomplished through alternatives to notifiable disease surveillance.
The Role of VIGI-A
The VIGI-A project is an attempt to address and rectify identified deficiencies by building a
flexible, responsive surveillance system which can provide the data needed to guide applied
research and development of prevention and control strategies for the country. VIGI-A contains
many objectives that fall into three major areas: a) laboratory infrastructure enhancement; b)
disease surveillance capacity enhancement; c) surveillance and control of specific diseases; and
(d) health promotion.



Annex 12
Argentina Disease Surveillance & Control Project (VIGI-A)
Assessment of Laboratory Infrastructure2
1. National Network of Laboratories for Control of Infections Transmitted by Transfusions.
This network was originally begun to ensure that blood used for transfusion was free of
Trypanosoma cruzi, causative agent of Chagas' disease. Subsequently, the network has been
expanded in scope of agents tested so that blood is routinely screened not only for Chagas'
disease, but also for hepatitis B and C, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), syphilis and
brucellosis. This network only manages the data received from testing laboratories and is not
directly involved in either laboratory testing or maintenance of quality control of the bl]ood
supply.
Communication among the members of the network is primarily by post or fax, often with a
follow-up telephone call to request reports. Computers and routine use of email are not available,
although having this capacity is a goal for the future.
2. National Network of Laboratories for Influenza and Respiratory Infections. This network is
comprised of three major laboratories (Buenos Aires, Mar del Plata and Cordoba), six secondary
laboratories, and an additional six laboratories just recruited into the network this year. The
objective of the network is to isolate influenza viruses currently in circulation. The major
laboratories are able to isolate and fully characterize influenza virus strains, conduct appropriate
research activities, and do limited molecular analyses. Secondary laboratories are able to conduct
rapid diagnostic tests and obtain clinical material to be forwarded to the central laboratories.
The laboratory facilities in Buenos Aires were extremely cramped for the work being conducted.
A total staff of seven individuals works in the influenza section: 3 professionals, 3 technicians
and I administrator. The laboratory was comprised of two small rooms, one containing a hood,
and a small administrative work area. All work is conducted in these rooms, including virus
isolation and molecular analysis (including polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests, which are well
know to be easily cross contaminated).
The staff members were personally extremely well qualified, were conducting state-of-the-art
research activities and clearly were of international stature.
3. Network of Laboratories dealing with Hepatitis Infections. This laboratory is primarily
focused on research and service activities associated with hepatitis B and C viruses, and also
includes a small section working on viral gastroenteritis, primarily rotaviruses and Norwalk
viruses.
4. Network of Laboratories to Monitor Resistance to Antimicrobial Agents. This network is a
part of the WHONET designed to monitor antimicrobial resistance around the world usilng a
standard computer program to accumulate resistance data. At the present time, 29 hospitals from
all but 8 provinces contribute to the system. These hospitals are drawn from both the public and
private sectors. External partners, in addition to WHO, include PAHO and the Canadian public
health laboratory, the Laboratory Centre for Disease Control (LCDC).
2 This annex is based on the report by James LeDuc and Francisco P. Pinheiro, June 1998



Annex 12                             Page 2 of 4
The network maintains its own quality control program by distributing validated bacterial strains
from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), as well as participating in an external
quality control program coordinated by WHO and CDC.
5.  Network for Nosocomial Infections.  The Ministry of Health recently approved the
establishment of a dedicated national network for the surveillance of nosocomial infections, and a
pilot demonstration project involving 25 hospitals has been started. The network is patterned
after the US National Nosocomial Infection Surveillance system (NNIS), and the demonstration
project is closely linked with the WHONET antimicrobial resistance network discussed above.
This network is being developed and managed jointly by groups in Buenos Aires and in Mar del
Plata, and there appears to be good coordination and collaboration. However, improvements are
also needed in the computer software used to manage the system, and a program of external
evaluations for quality assurance and control will be established.
6. Network for Cholera and other Diarrheal Diseases. The cholera network was begun in 1992
during the outbreak of cholera and has been developed since then so that today a total of 25
reference laboratories are in place, with at least one in every province. Adding to this network
are 133 level 2 provincial collaborating laboratories located primarily in hospitals and 284 level 1
lower laboratories of lesser capabilities in rural clinics and small hospitals.
The cholera and other diarrheal diseases program at ANLIS is located in 5 cramped laboratories
currently occupying approximately 100 m2 in total. These facilities are clearly not appropriate for
the level of activity being undertaken.
7. National Laboratory Network for the Surveillance of Tuberculosis. The network comprises 24.
provincial central laboratories, 112 laboratories of intermediate complexity, 600 primary health
laboratories, one regional reference laboratory and two national reference centers. These are the
INER "E. Coni" located in Santa Fe and the INEI located in Buenos Aires. A few private
laboratories perform the diagnosis of a small number of cases but are not integrated in the
network. The objectives of the network are to perform the bacteriological diagnosis of
tuberculosis in order to provide support for case-finding activities and the epidemiological
surveillance of the disease including data collection, to provide diagnosis and orientation for the
rapid treatment of special cases, and to assure adequate biosafety conditions to all laboratories
that integrate the system.
8. Laboratory Network for Hantaviruses. ANLIS laboratories in collaboration with CDC have
conducted extensive epidemiological and ecological studies which were most helpful to
understand the natural history of HPS in Argentina. Further to the molecular characterization of
Andes virus, ANLIS was able to obtain a recombinant virus protein which has been used for the
diagnosis of HPS infections in a capture MAC ELISA IgM and an ELISA IgG format.
9. Laboratory Network for the Surveillance of Emerging Arboviruses. Several arboviruses of
public health importance are present in Argentina such as SLE, WEE and EEE. The recent
emergence of dengue virus in northern Argentina raises considerable concern of its spread to
other areas of the country infested with Aedes aegypti, including Buenos Aires. Since almost the
entire population of Argentina is completely susceptible to dengue infection, there is a serious
threat to the occurrence of explosive epidemics. The INEVH has human resources and
capabilities to perform field and laboratory studies of arboviruses, including dengue. Also the
INEVH houses the National Dengue Reference Laboratory.



Annex 12                                Page 3 of 4
10. Laboratory Network for Brucellosis: The Brucellosis laboratory of the ANLIS/ Malbran
serves as national reference laboratory for the disease.  In this capacity the laboratory is
responsible for the standardization of the serological diagnosis of the infection, control of the
quality of the commercial reagents, production and distribution of reference reagents,
development of bacteriological diagnosis methods, provision of training and technology transfer
and dissemination of information.
11. Laboratory Network for the Surveillance of Zoonosis. A project has been elaborated to
develop a laboratory network for the surveillance of zoonosis.  The project will include
laboratories in nine provinces for the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis, hydatidosis, trichinosis,
toxocariasis and fascioliasis. In addition, guidelines will be established for the diagnosis of five
zoonosis (hydatidosis, trichinosis, toxoplasmosis, fascioliasis and toxocariasis).
12.  Network on Chagas' Disease, Leishmania and Malaria.  This network involves 370
laboratories and 24 reference centers located in all provinces, with the greatest distribution of
laboratories concentrated in the areas where Chagas' disease is endemic.
13. Visits to Local and Provincial Laboratories It is evident that local staff are willing to
collaborate with ANLIS scientists as primary focal points and reference resources for national
surveillance efforts. Clearly this willingness to collaborate with a single national reference center
will be critical to the success of the VIGI-A initiative. Many of the laboratories visited suffered
from similar space shortages as those noted in the ANLIS in Buenos Aires, although the visit to a
recently constructed pediatric hospital in Corrientes showed excellent laboratory facilities.
Conclusions and Recommendations
1. The ANLIS staff of each national reference center are, in almost all cases, headed by senior
scientists of world-class stature that direct small but dedicated groups that are conducting state-
of-the-art research and public health activities. The high quality of the staff is an essential
strength and resource which will be a critical component in the overall development and
implementation of the VIGI-A program.
2. The ANLIS leadership and staff are fully engaged in the development of national networks for
surveillance of specific diseases such that each national reference centers have defined critical
issues unique to the diseases for which they hold responsibility, and each center has produced
clear, relevant plans to implement development of these disease-specific networks.
3. The problem seen in virtually all reference centers at the ANLIS is the lack of appropriate
laboratory space to adequately conduct the routine duties expected of them. This often leads to
poor conditions of biosecurity, inefficient use of expensive equipment, and significant limitations
on the workload able to be maintained.
4. Space problems were not limited to the reference facilities at the Malbran. In the provincial
centers visited and at the local hospital laboratory level, space was consistently the first thing
mentioned when staff was asked to list their top two or three problems. Most laboratories are
housed in hospitals or dedicated buildings that were constructed at a time when the laboratory
offered little in the overall care of patients.
5. Specific request is made under VIGI-A for construction of two biocontainment facilities, one
in Buenos Aires and one in Pergamino. Given the routine work with highly pathogenic agents
currently underway in Pergamino (Junin virus, cause of Argentine hemorrhagic fever,



Annex 12                            Page 4 of 4
hantaviruses, arboviral encephalitides and others requiring at least BSL-3 containment) and the
significantly larger staff, we feel it prudent to ensure that containment facilities are present in
Pergamino first before investing in similar facilities in Buenos Aires.
6. BIOSAFETY. As indicated throughout the text above, the staff at the ANLIS as well as at the
local and provincial levels are all well aware of biosafety precautions to be used when handling
infectious material, as well as the biocontainment needs for safe laboratory procedures. Training
has been offered and has generally been well received. In ANLIS, the primary problem is lack of
space and infrastructural needs to consistently meet biocontainment standards.
7. PROFICIENCY TESTING. Virtually every network we discussed has as a central component
of its program an ongoing quality control and proficiency testing program. These appeared to be
well organized and welcomed by the subordinate laboratories.
8. NEEDS OF NATIONAL REFERENCE LABS IN OUTBREAKS. The national networks we
discussed appeared to have good ongoing communications with their members in the provinces,
including adequate specimen transport for reference and technical assistance.



Annex 13
Argentina Disease Surveillance & Control Project (VIGI-A)
Data Telecommunications Plan3
Current Surveillance Systems
There are two primary surveillance systems that must be supported by the network. The first is
the national notifiable disease surveillance system (Sistema Nacional de Vigilancia
Epidemiol6gica, or SINAVE), which at the federal level is the responsibility of the central
epidemiology unit (Direccion de Epidemiologia). The second is laboratory-based surveillance
system, which is the responsibility of the national reference laboratory (Administraci6nNacional
de Laboratorios y Institutos de Salud, or ANLIS).
The primary sources of data for the SINAVE system are local health clinics and hospitals.
Individual patient records or aggregate case counts are reported from these site to the surveillance
programs run by the provincial MoHs. For the larger provinces, there are also intermediate
administrative health districts (or "zonas") which first receive the information.
Data reported to the federal level generally involves only aggregate data by type of disease and
week of diagnosis. In some instances case totals may be broken down by additional variables
such as age category and sex. The tuberculosis program is also collecting more detailed patient
level data at the national level. Reporting to the provincial MoHs may be either as aggregate
data or as patient level data, depending on the needs of the health ministry. The health clinics and
hospitals may also collect either patient level or aggregate data depending on the need. When
patient level data are collected, the Epilnfo package from the CDC and the World Health
Organization (WHO) has generally been used. Reporting is generally by fax; very little (if any)
electronic means for communication currently exists.
The laboratories do not yet have a standard data management system for surveillance. They have
recently been considering the use of the Public Health Laboratory Information System (PHLIS),
developed at the CDC. However, the laboratories have received new funding in the past year and
are in the process of creating their own network for reporting a variety of data including those
used for surveillance. The system they are designing will be Internet based.
In addition to reporting through the notifiable disease and laboratory surveillance systems. the
VIGI-A project will also support the development of new systems for nosocomial infection
surveillance and control. The electronic telecommunications must support that activity as well.
Current plans call for the system to be developed in Epilnfo version 6.
Design of the Telecommunications System
Several initial requirements for the telecommunication system were identified. They include:
1) providing the ability to report surveillance data in batch mode using the Epilnfo and PEILIS
systems,
2) allowing enough flexibility to add new systems such as those for business administration
within the VIGI-A project,
3) supporting e-mail services between health departments, laboratories, health clinics, and other
persons and institutions involved in public health,
3This annex is based on the report prepared by Meade Morgan, December 1998



Annex 13                              Page 2 of 6
4) allowing "health alerts" and other textual information to be rapidly disseminated, and
5) providing the ability to electronically distribute reports both to public health staff and, as
appropriate, the public at large.
In addition to these requirements that are specific to telecommunications, the VIGi-A funds are
also being considered as a mechanism to upgrade computer hardware and software in the
surveillance department at the national level as well as in the provincial and local health
ministries and clinics. A total of 641 workstations with printers are being requested, together
with 11 laptops. The Plan Informatico describes where throughout Argentina these new
workstations will be located, though only in general terms.
Initial Recommendations:
Basically three distinct and yet related activities are proposed. They are:
1) to use the public Internet as the communication backbone connecting the national
surveillance program, the provincial and district health ministries, laboratories, and health
clinics,
2) to upgrade the microcomputer hardware and software in these locations to better support the
Internet connections and to be able to use newer Windows '98 applications, and
3) to build a local area network within the Direccion de Epidemiologia to support the
Surveillance unit of the Direccion de Epidemiologia with additional connections for
accessing data from workstations in the Statistics Unit and the Maternal and Child Health
Unit.
Use of the Public Internet
Selecting the Internet as the communication backbone for VIGI-A is, without question, the
correct choice. Use of the Internet is growing rapidly in Argentina as well as throughout the
world. The Internet is a flexible communication medium and can allow for virtually unlimited
growth, both in terms of the number of workstations connected to it and the variety of
applications that can be supported through it.
Internet Design Plan
This plan would provide for the "real-time" on-line entry, management and analysis of
surveillance data through the Internet World-Wide-Web (WWW). Raw data would be reported
through the Internet to a single server located at the National Ministry of Health and Social
Action. While the server would be physically located in at a single location, the software
providing access to data on the server would be written so that each area would only have access
to the information within their appropriate jurisdictions.  The information would not be made
available to the next higher level (including the federal level) until the lower level authorities
approved that access. Hypertext mark-up language (HTML) data entry screens would be written
to allow the data to be entered and edited, and for both standardized and ad-hoc analyses to be
performed. Furthermore, the use of the WWW and the associated Internet browser technology
w;ould allow for health alerts and other bulletins to be easily posted. This system would look
similar to other Internet based data entry applications such as those used for electronic purchasing
and to search the web for documents.



Annex 13                             Page 3 of 6
Providing Internet Connections
Connections to the Internet will be provided for every user that transmits surveillance data.
Internet connections in Argentina are expensive and this is likely to be one of the major costs of
the telecommunications network.
Overall costs for Internet access, assuming only the use of either local providers with a flat rate
structure or the 0800 toll-free numbers, are shown in the table below. For simplicity it is assumed
that only 600 users will need connections and that the others (such as those within DE) will have
other methods of access. As stated earlier, Internet connections in Argentina are expensive.
Communications will be one of the major costs to the project (slightly under US $1,000,000 per
year) and are an expense that the Ministry of Health must be willing to support once the VIGI-A
project ends. Overall costs for Internet access, assuming only the use of either local providers
with a flat rate structure or the 0800 toll-free numbers, are shown in the table below.
Table 1:
Estimated cost for telephone lines and Internet service for 600 users, by month and by year.
F Tpeof Conetii         Niuther  Cost per mnh        TtIotpr           Ttlcs  e
Telephone lines        600        $48               $28,800            $345,600
Local ISP access       575        $48               $27,600            $331,200
0800 toll-free lines   5          $48 base + an     200 total hours    $46,080
additional .30 per  (assuming 8 hours
minute usage      for each of 25
charge            workstations)
costs $3,840
1-2 Mbit/sec connection   1       $20,000           $20,000            $240,000
for Direcci6n de
Epidemiologia local area
network
Total connection costs                              $79,200            $962,880
Workstations (Hardware and Software)
One other major part of the VIGI-A project is to upgrade personal computer workstations
available to epidemiology and laboratory surveillance personnel. ThePlan Informcitico proposes
that 641 workstations and 10 laptop computers be purchased and installed over the three years of
the VIGI-A project. The new workstations will be phased in throughout the three years of the
project. The need to upgrade computers in the health departments is supported by a series of site
visits made to six provinces and described in a report titled "Evaluaci6n de los Servicios de
Epidemiologia en Seis Provincias Argentinas".
Recommendations for the "minimum" required workstation were developed based on currently
available technology. These workstations would have a Pentium II processor with 64 megabytes
of RAM, a 4 gigabyte hard disk drive, a 4 megabyte graphics card, 14 inch color monitor, and a
color ink jet printer. A 56K modem would also be required for users who will be accessing the
Internet using dial-up lines. These systems, if purchased in the U.S., would cost about $2,500
each with the Windows '98 and Microsoft Office software already installed.



Annex 13                            Page 4 of 6
Direccion de Epidemiologia Network
In addition to the Internet network, the Plan Informdtico also proposes the development of a local
area network for the Direcci6n de Epidemiologia., This network is long overdue. There are a
number of specific issues related to the hardware and software which would be addressed in the
proposal as part of the network design. One of the most important issues is enhanced security
which should be built into the network. The Internet design would include a standard asymmetric
(public-private) file encryption package such as Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), and would also
include the use of the browser secure socket(SSL), together with an additional level of encryption
for all sensitive data. Digital certificates should also be used to authenticate the workstations
which have access to the system, and use-IDs and passwords should be built in to authenticate
users.
Personnel needed to support the system:
LANAdministration and Management (I person)
This person will be responsible for managing the LAN hardware and software, joining user
accounts, providing training, etc. He or she needs to have experience in installing and managing
Microsoft Windows NT networks.
Programmingfor the Surveillance System (2 persons)
These individuals will be responsible for developing the software to be used for data collection
and management. They must have experience in developing and maintaining SQL database
systems, dynamic HTML entry screen development supported by Java applets or Microsoft
Active-X/DCOM components for editing checking.
Help Desk and Training (2 persons)
The number of users of the system nationwide will be fairly large (over 600 by the third year), so
it will be important to set up a help desk to assist in resolving problems. Also, these individuals
might help in writing system documentation and user guides. General knowledge of computers,
strong interpersonal skills, and ability to write clearly are requirements for the position. These
individuals would need to be able to visit the field sites to resolve problems when necessary.
Internet Web Master (I person)
This individual will be responsible for preparing documents, pages, and other textual and
graphical information in HTML and posting it on the Internet. He or she should have experience
in web page design and management. (The Web Master position is generally considered a lower
level person than the programmers mentioned above.) The job of the Web Master is usually to
manage the basic "look and feel" of the web site and to format basic web pages.
Data Manager (1 person)
This person would be responsible for monitoring of the data and providing quality control and
assurance. If problems are found (such as obvious errors, or failure to report for several weeks),
this individual would contract the Province, district or local site to determine the cause of the
problem and assist in correcting it.
Programmingfor the VIGI-A Administrative System (I person)
This person would be responsible for implementing the VIGI-A administrative system. He or she
needs to have experience in whatever application development system is chosen for developing
that system.



Annex 13                                               Page 5 of 6
Table 2: VIGI-A Telecommunications Project Tasks. Time Line, and Estimated Costs **
nventory sites to  connecte to t e    esgn an comp ete inventory
telecommunications network         months from start of project). Costs
includes support from current VIGI-
A staff.
$20,000
Develop "final" cost estimates for  Use inventory to determine overlap                                                           _$0000
VIGI-A network assuming it is built     between Nationaj Laboratory,
onto of the National Laboratory or     ANMAT and VIGI-A networks
ANMAT networks               .        (should be complete by month 4
$10,000
Standardize data collection forms and       Standardization should be       Maintain standards    Maintain standards        Maintain        $0 00
data formats in collaboration with     completed by 6 months into the                                                       standards
partners; finalize decision for Intemet    project. Costs include staff support
design option #I or #2 (preferred) and    and a national meeting with
whe   to build on top of lab or                  Provincial partners.
ANMAT network                                             $50,000
Develop and maintain data entry and      Develop prototype data entry        Finalize data entry       Finalize entire   Maintain the   (costs covered
analysis software                         application using one or two  application and prototype        application      application            in
diseases as examples      data analysis software                                      'programmers'
(cost covered in programmers                                                                         below)
below)
Develop and maintain training        Develop prototype documentation   Finalize training matenals as       Maintain         Maintain  (costs covered
materials                          and training materials (cost covered        far as is possible  documentation and    documentabon   in 'help desk'
by help desk staff below)                              training materials    and training        below)
matenais
Develop a security plan (if such a        Develop the plan in time for  Maintain the security plan    Maintain the security  Maintain the   (costs covered
plan does not already exist) for    presentaion and discussion during                                          plan      security plan   in the 'design
protecting access to and          the national meeting with Provencial                                                                        of the
confidentiality ofthe surveillance                        partners.                                                                         network'
data.                                                                                                                                        below)
Purchase a total of1641 Pentium JI     214 computers ( $2,700 each       214 computers totaling       213 computers                      $1727T700
class personal computer workstations              totaling $57780od                  $577,800       totaling $572,100
Purchase laptop computers          II la, S3,000 each, totalin $33,000                                                                      $33 000
Install and upgrade workstation          21 computers ( $500 each        418 computers totaling       641 computers    641 computers     $ 1,084:500
hardware and software                             totaling $120,500                  S241,00        totaling S361,500        totalin
_                                ,           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$361,500
Design the Direccion de                            $20,000 contract                                                                         $ 20,000
Epidemiologia local area network,
including the Interaet components
Hire LAN administrator                    $65,000 salarv and benieits                 $65,000               $65,000          $70,000       $ 265.000
Design and wire the DE Local Area  S240,000' for network servers                                                                           $ 260u000
Network, including the Intennet          SAS software, etc. + $20,000
components.                               contract for wing totaling
__________________________________-$260.00 0
Install high-speed Intennet connection  $50,000 equipment + 6 months   12 months usage @$20,000            $240,000   -      2000          $ 000
to DE LAN                          usage @. $20,000, totaling $170,000        totaling $240,000
Install five 0800 toll-free dial-in lines'                                                       $20,000 equipment+        12 months        240,000
6' months usage @    usage @ $2,000
$2,000                 each totaling
'__________$S0.000  t160.000
Hire programmers (assumes option   I person mid-ear   6,   sala           2 persons   $130,000             $130,000         ,140 000 S04300
#2)                                and benefits  3250 for 6 months)                      ,_,_,
Create and staff a user help desk  I person   , $4U,000 and about $50      2 persons @ $S0,000              $80,000           85,000F  -    285,500
(assumes option #2)                     for software to track calls and
problem resolution totaling $40,500
Hire Intemet Web Master                   person mid -year (#L $60,UO0                $60,000               $60,0000
($30.0 for   moiths$
HiOh-speed Intennet connections for   6months @ $20,000 per month           12 months totaling             $240,000          2         - -$ 4000
the DELAN                                         totaling $t120000e S240 000 
Provincial, district, and local    200 computers@$96 per month tor     200 computers for the full  400 computers for the    600 computers  $ 72s oo
connections to the Interaet, excluding    6 months, totaling $115,200   year + an additional 200       full year + an   for the full Year,
0800 numbers                                                            computers for 6 months         additional 200        totsling
totaling $345,606      computers for 6        $691,200
months totaling
____________ ___________      576,000
Hire a surveillance data base manager            I nerson (3)0 $35.000                $35.000               $35,000          $40000        $ 145,000
Hire a programmer for VIUI-A                     I person ( S$65 000                                        $65 000  -       $702000       $ 265:000
administrative data system
ra w >'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rz 
** At appraisal it was decided that telecommunications services would be provide by external providers
4The $240,000 for network servers, hubs, sofiware, etc. is simply an estimate. The final network design document should list specifically all equipment and software
that will be needed, together with estimated costs. It should also include a plan for handling security at both the local level as well as for the Internet components that
the reporting sites will using to access their data.
5 The 0800 lines would be installed at the end of the project only if there remained sites that still did not have the ability to connect locally.



Annex 13                                       Page 6 of 6
Hardware Architecture
National Level                                /l S\
(Surveillance, Statistics, and                                                                       (docume     data
Mother and Child Health)                                                                             analysis files, etc.)
WebC Communications)                                                                 C
Srver                                
~~Server  ~~Windows NT based I100 Mbit/sec Ethernet                               _       QL Data
Local Area Network                              Server
Application Se
|(SAS. etc.)l
At most~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~eelpen  n
\                                /           | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Testinp, Server l
TCP/IP                           |     Internet Firewall
Communicationsl                                  
Server              _Proxy Server for Accessing
_   = =   _                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Data and Applications
:! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~through the Firewall
; _    _  I    t    t    |   l            < )   I~~~~~~~~ or 2Mbit/sec Internet Connection
0800 Toll Free Voice Grade 
Telephone Lines (with 
"autoroll" capability that will                                             \
give caller next available line)          (        Commercial Internet
25-0    sService Provider
The 0800 numbers would only be added,                      r
during the final year of the project, if needed.  
(           ~~~Internet andA..
f         ~~World Wide Web            V
Province and Local Levels\ 
Worktatins:Connections                          Connections               Connections
At most!.. ll
25-50 PCs
550 or more PCs



Annex 14
Training Program Summary
Argentina Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGI-A)
Train :in;;Li>i>000|g  i        a g te  ergsotinl:   t     lt;tl; 000; ?: 0  i4 0drovider  Cost
Basic Epidemiology
*  Health indicators                     4,400 local (health                D.E.N./       1,144,180
*  Information systems                   center/hospital), Intermediate,  D.E.PROV
*  Initially, 60 people would be trained in a   Provincial and laboratory
national course and would become the  personnel, and the Outbreak   Curriculum
future trainers                       Control Team                 developed by
(8 two-week trainings in 36 jurisdictions with                         DEN & PAHO
15 people per class)
Intermediate Level Epidemiology Training
*  Methods of epidemiology               60 professionals at the central  D.E, MSAS        310,000
*  Epidemiological studies and types of  and provincial                  (field courses)
error                                 levels (working in
*  Epidemiology of communicable diseases   epidemiology)                 MSAS, PAHO,
and chronic illnesses                                                    CDC
(Two 3-4 weekfield courses, followed by 2                               (national courses
national 4-week courses with international                               w/ international
instructors)                                                              instructors)
Long Distance Epidemiology Course
*  Principles of epidemiology & statistics  700 Provincial and Intermediate  INE          1,037,600
*  Information processing and analysis   and local personnel, and health
*  Epidemiological studies               professionals
+ Health Surveillance
+  Programming
(Three 9-month trainings. The first course
will be followed by an evaluation)
Basic Principles of Outbreak Investigation
(Level I)
+  Case analysis                          120 Intermediate level doctors  DE, PAHO         220,000
+  Description of outbreaks              & nurses who would be future
*  Types of causes                       trainers
*  Epidemic curves
(Two, 7-month trainings, consisting of 2-week
courses, separated by six months of hands-on
application)
Principles of Outbreak Investigation (Level
II)
*  This will consist of 2 two-week courses,  72 Provincial personnel, health   D.E, International   152,800
separated by a 6-month field project, and   specialists, and outbreak  organization
a one-week follow-up course           control team who would be        (CDC, etc.)
future trainers
Outbreak Investigation
(advanced level)
The Bank recommends a training program of   6 epidemiologists at central     CDC           936,000
no less than 12 months                    epidemiological unit
Laboratory Bio-Safety
*  One national and one international    30 laboratory personnel who        ANLIS          34,300
instructor would provide training on  would become bio-safety
instrument handling, and methods and  specialists in their labs,



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-           - - -  .   . . . .
Training                       Targeted Personnel            Provider         Cost
(USS)
equipment for bio-safety               providing training to other
(1-week national training)                 personnel.
Laboratory Reporting Systems                                                                62,400
*  Use of new computerized laboratory      39 Future trainers from I          ANLIS,
reporting system                       provincial laboratory and 15       VIGI-A
(1-week national trainingfollowed by a 3-day   national laboratories
evaluation, held 6 months later)
Training in Information Systems for                                                           29,180
Provincial Workers                         24 Provincial operators who      DE, VIGI-A
+  E-mail and the Internet                 will then train and support
+  Network security                        provincial operators at the
*  New applications                        central and intermediate level.
(I national 3-day course)
Software for Surveillance Systems
*  Basic operations and use of the         Operators of notification        DE, VIGI-A       187,200
surveillance network                   software
*  Transfers and protection of databases   2 at the national level
+  Basic maintenance                       36 at the provincial level
*  Data input and output                   80 at the intermediate level
(I-week national trainingfollowed by a 3-day   (divided into three groups)
evaluation, held 6 months later)
Data for Decision Making
*  Collection, analysis and use of data.   120 heads of epidemiology,           D.E          426,600
(6 regional courses w/ international      working w/ provincial            CDC, PAHO
instructors - 20 students per course)      programs and statistics, and
public health specialists from
national institutes and the
MSAS
Management Course
+  Improvement of management skills at the   60 Directors of epidemiology    University      228,000
provincial level                       programs and provincial and
(2 trainings given. Each course lasting two  national laboratories
weeks per month, with 4 months between
trainings)
Publication of Bulletins/Reporting System
for Surveillance Data                      36 at the provincial level           DE            37,160
*  Design standards                        3 at the national level
+  Presentation of tables and graphics
* Report Writing
(1-week training course)
Surveillance of Nosocomial Infections
*  Principles of Surveillance              300 Physicians, Nurses and    PCIN, Consulting  377,500
*  Data processing and analysis            Microbiologists from sentinel       org.,
*  Outbreak identification                 centers in 5 regions               VIGI-A
(Ten 5-day courses)
Nosocomial Infection Prevention and
Control                                    400 Physicians, Nurses,            National       488,500
*  Norms and methods of control and       Microbiologists and health        consultants
prevention                             administrators at the sentinel
*  Standard precautions                    centers, who would be future
*  Nosocomial outbreak control             trainers
(Ten 5-day courses)



i                     '           TariCost
Tuberculosis and Dengue Control
*  Diagnostic testing                       820 Physicians, Nurses,            INEI, INER,       36,860
*  Epidemiological                          Laboratory workers and           INEVH, PNCT,
*  Management                               Epidemiologists                       PNCV
+  Training of field workers                2,400 field workers
Training to Implement Chronic Disease
and Risk Factor Surveillance                Public Health Professionals     Local and external   184,500
*  Establish data needs, priorities and                                         consultants
management needs for non-
communicable disease control
+  Training in data collection
*  Design of instruments (questionnaires,
scales, reliability, validity, sampling
methods, etc.)
*  Data format, record keeping, aggregation,
data analysis, etc.
Training for Health Promotion
*  Communication skills                     Unit staff                      Local and external    34,650
*  Computers and software                   TV and radio journalists            consultants
*  Basic training in surveillance and control
Total Spent on Training: $5,927,430.0
% of Total Project Cost: 7.8%
Note: During the life of the project, the training activities will be monitored and evaluated. In follow-up courses,
students will initially be tested on material covered in prior training.
D.E.N           Direcci6n Epidemiol6gica Nacional        INE     Instituto Nacional Epidemiologia
D.E.PROV        Direcci6n Epidemiol6gica Provincial      ANLIS  National Reference Laboratory Center
DE              Direcci6n Epidemiol6gica                 PAHO   Pan-American Health Organization
PNCT            National Plan for Tuberculosis Control   PNCV   National Plan for Control of Vectors
Diseases
INEI            National Institute of Infectious Disease  INER   National Institute for Respiratory
Diseases
INEVH           National Institute of Human Viruses      PCIN    National Plan for Control of
Nosocomial Infections



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29348
70'    *                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~60'                                            50'
BOLIVIA
NPARAGUAY
/     San Salvador                                                            B       A     I
~de, Jujuy                                                              RA Z IL
I"         OSal~~~~~ta
',ormosa/
n0Tudum6n
CA O  Resistencia  6...Posadas          X
~Santirggo del Estero.        Corrientes~ ~ t~
L. RiojaO                                          ''       .
S A,N!TA
30'  U   T                             C~~~6rdab    Sata  -                                                                                      0
J'    San Juan    --                      6
Fe 0 PaA na
Mndoza        Sa                               IO
®Buenos Aires
£ F EN (OS
Santa Rosa@
-              ~~AIRES
\ Neuqu&n0                             -
ARGENTINA
0       PROviNCE CAPITALS
®   NATIONAL CAPITAL
V.   (                                                   -  -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
I     NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
50'  Ii~~~~~~~~~~5;  .~~~~~.GaIIego ~~~~~~0   i!0                                               200      300      00 ilesBak
>~~..~~/P>4>  Ushuaia    <~~~~~~                  The boundaries, colors, denominations andl anyother information show
an this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
jodgmnothnelega~l stiotu  fany terrilory;or anyendlorsement or
a    of such boundlaries.
~~~~70-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~050'
APRIL 1998



