Page  1
August 28, 2000
Mr. José Luis Machinea
Ministro de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4516-AR (Public Health Surveillance and Disease 
Control Project) - Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the 
Borrower) (the Loan Agreement) with regard to the above-captioned Project.
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request and our 
recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement so as to allow the financing out of the proceeds of the Loan of 
certain activities of the recently established Unidad de Coordinación de 
Programas y Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo.
Consequently, the Loan Agreement is amended as follows.
1.
A new Section 1.02 (q) is inserted at the end of Article I to read as 
follows in its entirety:
"(q)  ‘UCPPFE’ means Unidad de Coordinación de Programas y 
Proyectos con Financiamiento Externo established pursuant to MS’s 
Resolution No. 98/2000, dated January 27, 2000;"
2.
A new Part E of the Project is inserted at the end of Schedule 2 to 
read as follows in its entirety:
"Part E:
Institutional Strengthening of MS
Provision of technical assistance and training to UCPPFE aimed 
at: (a) strengthening the coordination, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation of programs and projects financed by multilateral and 
bilateral agencies; and (b) ensuring coherence between such programs 
and projects and the overall policies and procedures of MS".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing 
and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter 
will be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to 
us.  The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective: (i) upon 
receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter; 
and (ii) as of the date the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Agreed:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  2
By /s/ José Luis Machinea
Date:
November 3, 2000
