Report No. PID6803
Project Name                     Argentina-Public Health Surveillance (@+)
and Disease Control Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Health, Nutrition & Population
Project ID                       ARPE55482
Borrower                         Government of Argentina
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Social Action
Av. 9 de Julio 1925
Phone: 5-41-345-3612/3641    Fax:  same as
telephone
Environmental Category           C
Date this PID Prepared           September, 1999
Appraisal Date                   February 8, 1999
Project Board Date               October 14, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background:
Background. Total health care spending in Argentina has long been one of the
highest in Latin America, about eight percent of GDP.     The overall health
indicators of Argentina are good when compared with those of other countries
in the region, and have improved markedly over the past ten years. In 1995,
life expectancy stood at 73 years, 12 more than 1960, and in 1997 the crude
death rate stood at 7.6 per 1,000. In 1997, infant mortality stood at 18.8
per 1000 births, and the maternal mortality ratio at 3.8 per 10,000 births,
down by 26 and 27 percent from 1990, respectively. These favorable trends
suggest that the present maternal and child health strategy and programs
should be pursued further. The relatively good national health indicators hide
significant variations between the provinces and the different income groups.
The poor have much worse health status than the rich, and have a different
pattern of death, disease and disability. Thus, despite the recent advances,
Argentina's performance, in terms of health indicators and public satisfaction
with quality of health care, still can be improved.
The roots of this discrepancy lie in the fact that Argentina is a federal
state, with significant differences among the provinces in terms of
efficiency  in health care finance and delivery.    To address this problem,
the Government of Argentina (GoA) began to implement, in the early 90's, a
series of sweeping and promising reforms, which address some of the key issues
in the sector. Specifically, the major health sector issues have been:
- Health Status. The decrease of the infant and maternal mortality rates
allowed Argentina to meet the targets agreed between UNICEF and its member
countries in 1991. The country needs to further strengthen its prevention
and control programs with respect to some preventable diseases including
tuberculosis, dengue and hospital infections. At the same time, Argentina
has emerging health problems which include cardiovascular disease, cancers,
and injuries which need to be addressed in a more systematic fashion.



- Surveillance Capacity. Significant effort has been made in recent years to
strengthen the national surveillance system, which tripled the number of
communicable disease notifications. In spite of such effort, the system is
still under development and needs significant investments in training of
its personnel, physical infrastructure and organization. The system needs
better coordination at the national level, as well as improvements in
standardization, links between epidemiological and laboratory data, and the
data telecommunication system.
- Health Promotion. Health promotion, as a strategic component of the health
system and as a tool for policy development, has just been introduced in
Argentina. Historically, health promotion has not been adequately
prioritized and the present challenge is to provide effective leadership,
policies, and strategies. This is the case in the area of communicable
diseases as well as diseases which are the result of life-style choices,
such as smoking, poor diet, and alcohol abuse. Other problems, such as the
high incidence of traffic accidents which places a significant cost on the
health care system and the need to prevent misuse and overuse of drugs, are
also not yet part of society's awareness.
- Institutional Development. Provincial ministries of health (MoHs) are
generally weaker compared to other areas of the Government. Efficiency,
regulatory capacity and quality control have started to improve. A
National quality control program is in place, with the participation of 214
entities, such as universities, scientific bodies, professional committees
and federations. In the early 1990's almost all hospitals were
decentralized to the provinces, leaving 5-10 percent of the national health
care spending is in the hands of the National Ministry of Health and Social
Action (MSAS). The decentralization process has reduced previous inter-
province inequities in health care financing, providing more resources to
provinces which needed the most. The present challenge is to strengthen the
capacity of the National Ministry to fulfill its present role as regulator
of the health insurance system, standards and quality assurance of health
care delivery, motivator for compensatory programs, and leader in disease
control and investigation.
- Efficiency. The health system in Argentina needs to improve the management
capacity of Ministries of Health, insurance carriers, and public hospitals.
Hospital infrastructure needs to be rationalized and rehabilitated, and
cost containment mechanisms need to be further developed, especially at the
provincial level. The regulation of the private sector, which provides a
large part of health care, needs to be updated and enforced.
- Equity. More than 30 percent of the population relies entirely on the
public health sector. Strengthening the public health services would
therefore help to improve the equity of the health system as well as
provide these people with improved access and choice of service.
The Government's strategy to address these issues, which has been under
implementation since the early 1990s with Bank and IDB support, includes
initiatives to:
- strengthen maternal and child health programs, especially targeted to poor
women and children, under on-going Bank-financed Maternal and Child Health
and Nutrition Projects I and II;
- improve organization, management, and internal efficiency of selected
provincial hospitals under the on-going Bank-financed Provincial Health
Sector Development Project and IDB-financed operations;
- improve and promote the development of primary health care, including the
-2 -



development of family medicine training and professional track (i.e.
through an I.D.B. financed project);
- restructure, improve equity and open competition in the mandatory union-
managed health insurance providers and improve the services provided to
elderly, retired members under the recently completed Bank-financed Health
Insurance Reform Adjustment Loan;
- improve regulation of both the union-run health insurers and the private
health sector under the Health Insurance Reform operation and its
accompanying Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project;
- improve the delivery of public health services, introduction of new
provider payment systems incentives, and improvement of cost-recovery in
public hospitals in selected provinces under the on-going Bank-financed
Provincial Reform Adjustment Loans, which are to be extended to other
provinces under proposed additional provincial reform operations;
- introduce health insurance for the poor, under the proposed Health
Insurance for the Poor Project Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL);
- control selected infectious diseases, notably HIV/AIDS and sexually
transmitted diseases, under the on-going Bank-financed AIDS and STD Control
Project, prevent the misuse of drugs under a recently approved LIL, and
control other diseases under the proposed Public Health Surveillance and
Disease Control Project; and
- strengthen public health policy and programs, especially the National
Public Health Surveillance System which is to be supported under the
proposed project.
2. Project Objectives
The objective of the project is to strengthen national, provincial, municipal
and local institutions responsible for public health policy and practice. The
ultimate goal is to reduce the disease burden, especially among the poor who
suffer from a high incidence of preventable disease. It will focus on three
areas: public health surveillance , disease prevention and control, and health
promotion. First, by strengthening disease surveillance, the project will
improve the capacity of the Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS) to
make informed decisions about prevention and control priorities and to monitor
the impact of interventions. Second, the project will strengthen provincial
capacity to carry out disease monitoring, control and prevention for several
diseases that pose a serious public health threat including tuberculosis,
dengue and hospital infections. Third, the project will help to develop a
health promotion program focusing on education, social mobilization, and
advocacy.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
While the Bank has little prior experience with free-standing projects to
strengthen national surveillance systems, it does have considerable
experience, in many countries, financing a variety of communicable disease
projects. Most of these have included support for strengthening specific
surveillance activities (examples in LAC include projects in endemic disease
control and AIDS/STD control in Venezuela, Argentina and Brazil). The Bank
supports other projects, such as the health Sector Reform Project in Egypt and
the VIGISUS Project in Brazil, which include health surveillance activities.
Complementing this is the Bank's ability to tap international experience. The
Bank has an ongoing partnership with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
-3 -



(CDC) and WHO/PAHO, which have often provided technical support in the
preparation and appraisal of Bank-financed health projects and contributed to
this proposed project.
We can also establish within Argentina the complementarity needed between
reforms in areas of health service delivery and financing, being supported by
other Bank-financed projects, with a focus on public health policy and
practice.
The Bank has been effective in Argentina in developing capacity for monitoring
and evaluation, targeting the poor, and involving local community groups.
This has proven to be particularly useful in other social sector programs,
notably the Participatory Social Investment Fund (FOPAR), the system for the
evaluation of social programs (SIEMPRO), the temporary public works employment
program (TRABAJAR), the AIDS and STD Control Project, and the recently
approved Drug Prevention LIL.
Finally, the Bank can use its knowledge base and established contacts with the
provinces, built up over the years under operations such as Provincial
Development I and II Projects and the Provincial Reform Adjustment operations,
to facilitate implementation and coordination at the provincial level.
4. Project Description
Component I: Strengthening the Public Health Surveillance System. This
component, to be implemented nationally and in stages, seeks to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the MSAS to make informed decisions about prevention
and control priorities, to better monitor the impact of interventions and
changes in health trends, and allocate resources more effectively.
Specifically, it will:
(i) review the norms and procedures for surveillance and attempt to
standardize case definitions, reporting procedures and data collection
in accordance with the new system design;
(ii) strengthen human resource capacity at all levels to carry out health
surveillance activities in areas of training including the surveillance
of selected communicable diseases, chronic diseases, behavioral risk
factors and injuries (see Annex 14);
(iii) rehabilitate, expand and upgrade the existing national laboratory
network (one laboratory level III, 36 laboratories level II, and 25
level I) through the provision of technical assistance, the acquisition
of equipment and construction of civil works (See Annex 12) ;
(iv) improve quality of the existing health data telecommunications through
provision of appropriate hardware, software, communications equipment
and the development of an internet-based network for data transfer and
storage among the federal, provincial and local levels of the public
health system, as well as training and technical assistance to the
specialized staff in the laboratory network and health facilities
participating in the surveillance system (see Annexes 2 and 13) and the
establishment of linkages with other relevant health data;
(v) implementation of alternative surveillance methods for specific diseases
including a system of surveillance and control of non-communicable
diseases through the provision of technical assistance and training for
MSAS staff in, inter alia, the design of data collection instruments,
questionnaires, scales, sampling methods, record-keeping, and data
-4 -



analysis and collection, and collection of base-line data on risk
factors and behavior (see Annex 2, Tables A and B);
(vi) evaluation that assesses the capacity of the surveillance system to
monitor each health event, taking into consideration sensitivity ,
specificity , efficiency, representativeness, timeliness and flexibility
of the system, as well as opportunities for cost-recovery as appropriate
and feasible (to be completed and submitted to the Bank by January 31,
2003);
(vii) finance an operational research grant program for eligible biomedical
research bodies to carry out research in epidemiological surveillance
and disease control; and
(viii) evaluate effectiveness and relevance of training activities
supported by the project.
Component II: Strengthening Disease Control. This component will strengthen
the institutional capacity of participating provinces and the City of Buenos
Aires to carry out disease monitoring, control and prevention. Specifically,
it will support:
(i) tuberculosis control in 10 provinces in the poorest northeast and
northwest of the country, Metropolitan Buenos Aires, and the areas of
highest incidence and multi-resistance to therapy;
(ii) dengue control in high risk populations located in the poor provinces
such as, Jujuy, Catamarca, Tucuman, Salta, among others, through 52
sentinel sites (selected on the basis of risk mapping, prevalence,
vectors density, and population) which will monitor febrile illness
including lab testing of suspected cases, (see Annex 2, Table D) and
vector monitoring in areas of high risk with high levels of vector
infestation;
(iii) nosocomial (hospital acquired) infection control in 100 randomly
selected hospitals (80 public and 20 private) throughout the country,
which meet specific selection criteria (see Annex 2, Table E). This
will include support for: a) elaboration of the norms and procedures for
NI control; b) existing infrastructure rehabilitation; c) collection of
baseline data on hospital infections; d) training of professional teams
for prevention and control of selected diseases; e) computers and
software for surveillance; f) supervision and technical assistance; and
h) vehicles ; and
(iv) control of emergent and re-emergent diseases which may occur during the
life of the project, through grants to eligible agencies. Criteria are
defined in the Operational Manual.
Component III. Health Promotion (HP) . This component will strengthen MSAS
capacity to carry out a health promotion strategy through education, social
mobilization and policy advocacy. Specifically, it will support :
(i) strengthening the institutional capacity of the health promotion unit of
the MSAS, through training, equipment and rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure;
(ii) training of MSAS and HP personnel in media and communications, and
training of health journalists in the areas of disease surveillance and
control;
(iii) eligible subprojects for local institutions and community groups to set
up or strengthen disease prevention and health promotion within their
communities (eligibility criteria and application procedures are
- 5 -



described in the Operational Manual);
(iv) dissemination of project objectives and activities through regular
newsletters directed at the public health community and through
workshops, conferences and technical meetings for stakeholders such as
politicians, government officials, the medical and private insurance
community and others;
(v) over the life of the project, meetings at least on a quarterly basis
with a committee of political and social leaders, including health
journalists, to define a strategy and action plan to help ensure
sustainability of the project;
(vi) a media campaign against tobacco addiction to be designed and
implemented on the basis of a risk factors survey; and
(vii) implementation of a plan to include private corporations in a
partnership with the MSAS to combat tobacco addiction in the employees
of such corporations.
Component IV: Project Administration. The project will help finance the
administrative and operating costs of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) over
a four year period. This includes: (i) salaries for PCU technical and
managerial staff, excluding the remuneration of the core technical team within
MSAS; (ii) domestic and international travel and per diem for PCU staff; (iii)
training of PCU staff; and (iv) equipment, materials and office supplies.
5. Project Financing
Project costs are estimated at US$75 million. Bank financing would be for
US$52.5 million , the central government and co-financiers would finance
US$22.5 million.
6. Project Implementation
This is a four-year project. The planned effectiveness date is January 31,
2000 with a closing date of Aril 30, 2004. The executing agency will be the
Ministry of Health and Social Action.
7. Project Sustainability
As explained earlier, Argentina needs to make an expanded investment in public
health programs, like the one being supported under the proposed project.
Better surveillance will correct for underreporting of diseases and may
therefore increase health care costs in the short to medium term. In the long
run, the recurrent costs are expected to stabilize and/or decrease if only
because epidemics are contained earlier. While the economic and social
benefits of such an increase in investment are clear, the decision to shift
public resources - especially during times of economic recession - are not
easy for policy makers given the competing demands for reduced resources. An
on-going public expenditure review being conducted by the Government, with
Bank-financed technical assistance, should help to lay the ground for this and
other public programs.
The burden of recurrent spending generated by the proposed project on total
public health spending is in relative terms modest and under normal
circumstances should be feasible within expected resource envelopes available
to the health sector. The recurrent expenditures are expected to rise from
about $400,000 in the first year of the project to about $3.3 million upon
project completion. Nevertheless, the prevailing financial crisis introduces
- 6-



an important element of uncertainty into growth projections for Argentina, and
consequently into those of public finance.
Present estimates of the prospects for the health budget indicate that funds
will be available to meet the incremental, non-Bank financed, recurrent costs
generated by the project. However, sheer availability is no guarantee that
these funds will effectively be made available for the activities generated by
the project. The issue of additional recurrent costs and their adequate
financing by the GoA therefore needs to be closely monitored, especially
towards the end of and after the project implementation period. In the case
of more acute financial difficulties in the future, the project will review
the implementation plan, and make appropriate adjustments to focus on priority
activities.
With a view to ensuring the long-run sustainability of the system and its
enhancement over time, the project will also support promotion of the
financial involvement of the private sector and if successful these
initiatives could help to reduce the incremental financial burden on the
public sector.
To reinforce sustainability, stakeholders were involved in project preparation
and were part of the system assessment and decision-making process. An
external advisory board for the project (comprised of public health
academicians and practitioners, provincial public health specialists,
government officials, representatives from Agriculture, Finance, Tourism and
other social sectors, and representatives of professional organizations) will
advise on all three project components and may be helpful in advocacy.
Support for technical assistance in operations and maintenance will be
included under the project to help provinces and municipalities ensure
sustainability of subprojects. The management and monitoring capacity of
provinces and municipalities will be strengthened. Surveillance capacity will
be strengthened at all three levels of the system, through extensive training,
upgrading of facilities, provision of equipment and establishing a data
management communication system. New personnel will also be contracted.
8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The Bank has not yet gained any specific lessons from similar Bank-financed
experiences, since this is only the second project of its kind in the Bank,
the first being the Brazil VIGISUS Project (Ln. 4394-BR). However, some
lessons from related projects may be applied to this project:
- Brazil: Amazon Basin Malaria Control (PCMAM) and Northeast Endemic Disease
Control (PCDEN) Projects. The ICRs for these projects suggest that disease
control projects should: (i) consider defining broader objectives, e.g.
combining support for malaria control with control of other communicable
diseases; (ii) include demand-driven components to finance state and
municipal communicable disease control subprojects; and (iii) provide
technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of weaker states and
municipalities. PCMAM and PCDEN also taught us that training and other
forms of institutional strengthening should be implemented at least at the
same pace as investments in civil works and equipment. This has been taken
into account in the project design.
- Peru: The Social Development and Compensation Fund Project (FONCODES).
- 7 -



Some relevant lessons from this project include:    (i)  independent ex-post
evaluation of samples of completed subprojects were valuable in assessing
performance and impact; (ii) educating beneficiaries concerning their role
in the project and the use of services offered by the project should be
emphasized; (iii) training in the operation and maintenance of completed
projects should be systematized; and (iv) selecting appropriate
performance indicators at the outset of the project, with an adequate
monitoring and evaluation system is important.
- Argentina: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition I and II (PROMIN). These
projects have been successful in reaching poor communities and involving
them despite varying levels of institutional capacity. In the two projects,
provinces manage subprojects at the municipal level through provincial
implementation units while an overall project coordinating unit (PCU) at
the central level coordinates project implementation. While the proposed
project does not have decentralized execution such as PROMIN, the central
PCU will be assisted by a high level technician, who will coordinate
project implementation at the provincial level. The PROMIN experience
demonstrates that not every municipality can be expected to have the
capacity to prepare subprojects effectively. The proposed project will
therefore provide technical assistance to weaker municipalities through the
PCU, when necessary.
Lessons from international experience have also been tapped for this project:
- Institutions in other sectors, such as the Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Finance and others should be actively
involved in strengthening the surveillance system. Extensive project
promotion was carried out during preparation and a project steering
committee, with representatives from these and other ministries, has been
suggested by the Bank as a way of ensuring continuing inter-ministerial
cooperation.
- International experience has shown that early involvement of senior
officials from the MSAS ensures national ownership of the national
surveillance system. In the preparation of the proposed project, the
National Epidemiology Unit, the provincial epidemiologists and health
officials and the National Commission of Epidemiology were all involved in
the assessment of the current surveillance system. It has been agreed that
formal assessments will be carried out on a regular basis involving the
MoHs and international partners.
- A review of international experience in surveillance shows that
surveillance systems are often overly ambitious, unrealistic and beyond
local capacity. Often, too many diseases are included and institutions are
subsequently overloaded with responsibilities that cannot be fulfilled.
For the proposed project, an economic analysis was carried out to help
establish surveillance priorities and appropriate methods, which found that
the current system covers an impractical 50 conditions. Of these, 29 were
selected for surveillance based on their epidemiological significance and
relative cost-effectiveness of intervention. Four of the 29 were selected
for surveillance by alternative methods, such as sentinel surveillance.
The remainder will use traditional surveillance methods (notifiable
conditions).
-8-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI):
Since the project targets diseases that disproportionately affect the poor, it
will contribute to poverty alleviation and enhance social development.
10. Environmental Aspects
The project would have a positive environmental impact by specifically
addressing the issue of safe handling of insecticides and laboratory and
medical materials and waste, including the development of an effective
biosafety program. Beneficiaries would have to present adequate environmental
and safety plans addressing such issues as: handling the products listed
above, storage facilities for hazardous materials, transportation and
disposal, and training of personnel on environmental and safety issues.
Training in the proper handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste
would be provided through the project.
11. Program Objective Categories
The primary categories are physical investment and institutional building.
Contact Points
Dr. Horacio Lopez, Coordinator             Anabela Abreu, Task Manager
Ministry of Health & Social Action         Human and Social Development Group
Avenida de Mayo 953, 3 piso                The World Bank
Buenos Aires, Argentina                    1850 I Street NW, "I Building"
Phone:  5-41-345-3612/3641                 I 7-187
Fax:    same as phone                      Washington, D.C. 20433
Phone: 202-458-7763
Fax:     202-522-3135
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 1, 1999.
-9-



ANNEX
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID).
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
Surveillance is the ongoing systematic collection, collation, analysis,
and interpretation of health data, closely integrated with
the timely dissemination of these data, to those who need to know in order
that action may be taken. The tasks of public health surveillance include
detecting new health problems, detecting epidemics, documenting the spread of
disease, providing quantitative estimates of the magnitude of morbidity and
mortality, identifying potential factors involved in the disease occurrence,
facilitating epidemiological and laboratory research, and assessing control
and prevention activities. Summarizing, surveillance is a key tool for
epidemic response, control activities, health policy and resource allocation.
Biosafety level 1 = basic level of containment, appropriate for handling
microorganisms that represent little or no risk to humans, animals or
the environment; Biosafety level 2 = routine work on human pathogens not
thought to be transmitted by the aerosol route. Basic physical
precautions include limited access to the laboratory, biohazard signs
posted outside the lab, biosafety manual defining any needed waste
decontamination or medical surveillance policies, and a biological safety
cabinet for use whenever agents that may splash or cause aerosols are handled.
Biosafety level 3 = specialized laboratories which allow workers to safely
handle more dangerous pathogens. They require all the conditions for
Biosafety level 2, as well as controlled access to the laboratory.
Special equipment and procedures to decontaminate all waste, wearing of
special clothing, among others. All work with infectious material is done
under a biological safety cabinet, and all waste is disinfected
prior to leaving the lab, usually by an autoclave.
Sensitivity is the proportion of persons with a disease/health event that
are detected by the surveillance system.
Specificity is the proportion of persons without a disease/health event
that are detected by the surveillance system.
- 10 -



