Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4516-AR
Loan Agreement
(Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 3, 2000 
LOAN NUMBER 4516-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 2000, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated September 21, 1999 
from the Borrower to the Bank describing a series of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower’s public health 
surveillance system;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project) has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means any public, private, or non-profit 
entity, including, inter alia, hospitals, health centers, public and 
private universities, research institutions, and non-governmental 
organizations located in the Borrower's territory, eligible under the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), which is responsible for the 
carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) 
and (5), set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of this 
Agreement;
(d)
"Grant" means a grant to be made or proposed to be made by 
the Borrower to a Beneficiary, out of the proceeds of the Loan, for the 
purposes of partially financing a Subproject (as hereinafter defined), 
including goods, works and consultants' services;
(e)
"Implementation Agreement" means 
Convenio de Ejecución, the 
agreement referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Implementation Agreement;
(f)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in 
Annex I to the letter of even date with this Agreement from the Borrower 
to the Bank;
(g)
"MS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(h)
"Municipal Participation Agreement" means Convenio Municipal 
de Participación y Adhesión al Proyecto, the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Municipal Participation Agreement;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the manual for the implementation 
of the Project referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Participating Municipality" means any of the municipalities 
in any of the Borrower's provinces selected by MS to participate in the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Participating Province" means any of the Borrowers 
provinces selected by MS to participate in the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Project Coordination Unit" means the unit to be established 
by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Provincial Participation Agreement" means Convenio 
Provincial de Participación y Adhesión al Proyecto, the agreement 
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Provincial Participation 
Agreement;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(p)
"Subproject" means any of the projects referred to in Parts 
Page  3
A.2, B.2 and C.4 of the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary 
utilizing the proceeds of a Grant and which meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to fifty two million five hundred thousand Dollars ($52,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of: (a) the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (b) Grants; and (c) the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2004 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the 
amount of five hundred twenty-five thousand Dollars ($525,000).  On or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of 
said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the 
Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated 
by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof 
made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
Page  4
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall, through MS: (i) carry out the Project; and (ii) 
cause the Beneficiaries to carry out the Subprojects, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, public health and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with:
(i)
the provisions set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and 
(ii)
an operational manual (the Operational Manual) 
acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter 
alia: (A) the procedures for the assessment and 
monitoring of training activities financed under 
Parts of A.1 (c); A.1 (e); A.1 (f); B.1; C.1; and C.3 
of the Project; (B) the criteria and procedures for 
the preparation, review, approval and implementation 
of 
Subprojects; (C) the procurement and contracting 
procedures (as set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement) applicable to goods, works and consultants 
services procured by the PCU for the carrying out of 
Subprojects; (D) the terms of reference, functions 
and 
responsibilities for staff responsible for 
Project 
management, coordination and monitoring and 
evaluation, 
at the national, provincial and municipal 
levels; and 
(E) the standard terms and conditions of 
the 
Provincial Participation Agreements, Municipal 
Participation Agreements and Implementation 
Agreements.  Except as the Borrower, through MS, and 
the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, 
suspend, abrogate or waive or otherwise fail 
to enforce 
the Operational Manual or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a) 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b) 
Grants shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual.
Page  5
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower, through MS, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project, including the 
Subprojects, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and shall by 
March 1 and September 1 of each year of Project execution, provide the 
Bank with semi-annual progress reports on the execution of the Project, 
including the Subprojects, in a format acceptable to the Bank, and based 
on the Monitoring Indicators referred to above;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank by not later than March 30, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project, including the Subprojects, 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project, 
including the Subprojects, and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank by May 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Article IV of 
this Agreement, the Borrower, through MS, shall:
(a)
by not later than December 31, 1999, procure an independent 
agency or specialized consultants’ services under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for the carrying out of an annual 
independent procurement and financial audit of the Project, including the 
Subprojects;
(b)
by not later than June 30 of each year of Project execution, 
carry out the audits referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)
promptly thereafter, furnish the reports of such audits to 
the Bank, for its review and comments.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through MS, shall:
(a)
establish within the Secretariat of Health Programs of MS, 
and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a unit (the 
Project Coordination Unit) for the overall management, financial 
administration, and monitoring of the Project with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
ensure that the Project Coordination Unit is headed, at all 
times during the execution of the Project, by a full-time project 
coordinator (the Project Coordinator) a general manager (the General 
Manager), all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, 
and is further staffed with key staff, including an administrative 
supervisor (the Administrative Supervisor), and three technical managers 
(the Component Technical Managers), and such other personnel with 
Page  6
functions, responsibilities, qualifications and experience as may be 
required for the proper implementation of the Project, including 
counterpart technical staff in each of the Participating Provinces;
(c)
appoint, within MS, and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, core technical personnel (the Core Technical 
Personnel) in adequate numbers and with functions, responsibilities, 
qualifications and experience as may be required for the proper 
implementation of the Project; and 
(d)
not later than six months after the Effective Date 
establish, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project an 
external advisory board, with composition and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, to assist in providing technical advice to MS, 
and promoting inter-agency cooperation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and 
report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statement of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents);
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
Page  7
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support 
the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower not later than six months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank each of 
which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period 
covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan 
during the six-month period following the period 
covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for that period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and 
adopted by MS; 
(b)
the Project Coordination Unit has been established and the 
Project Coordinator, the General Manager, the Administrative Supervisor 
and the Component Technical Managers have been appointed and are in place 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
the Core Technical Personnel have been selected in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has completed the review referred to in Part 
A.1 (b) of the Project and has furnished to the Bank the results of such 
review; and
(e)
all action shall have been taken by the Borrower in order to 
permit that the procurement of goods, works and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan be carried out 
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02.  The date of February 5, 2001, is hereby specified 
Page  8
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y
Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5o Piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121950AR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year 
first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ José Luis Machinea
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Page  9
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works (other
   3,400,000
70%
than for Subprojects)
(2)
Goods, includikng
   6,100,000
70%
vehicles (other than
for Subprojects)
(3)
Consultants' Services
  26,800,000
80%
and Training
(4)
Grants
   8,300,000
80% of amounts 
disbursed
(5)
Project Administration
   2,700,000
80% until 
withdrawals
under this 
Category have
reached an 
aggregate
amount 
equivalent to 
$1,200,000; 70% 
until
withdrawals 
under this 
Category 
have reached
an aggregate 
amount
equivalent to 
$2,200,000;
and 30% 
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
   4,675,000
(7)
Fee
     525,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 
of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
  52,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Project 
Administration" means the additional expenditures of the PCU required for 
the implementation of the Project, including: (a) salaries for PCU 
technical and management staff, excluding the remuneration of the 
personnel referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement; (b) training 
for PCU staff; (c) office supplies, materials and equipment; and (d) 
international and domestic travel and per diem for PCU staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the amount of $2,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), 
(3),and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on 
account of payments made for expenditures incurred within 12 months prior 
to the date of this Agreement, but after September, 1, 1998; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the 
Borrower, through MS, has furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank that: (i) the Provincial Participation Agreement has been 
entered into between MS and the corresponding Participating Province; 
(ii) the Municipal Participation Agreement has been entered into between 
MS and the corresponding Participating Municipality; (iii) the 
corresponding Subproject has been approved by the PCU in accordance with 
Page  10
the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(iv) the Implementation Agreement has been entered between the PCU and 
the corresponding Beneficiary.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
(other than for Subprojects) 
costing less than $350,000 equivalent; (b) works (others than for 
Subprojects) costing less than $750,000 equivalent; (c) Grants; (d) 
training; (e) consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (f) 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000; and (g) Project 
Administration.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación 
Argentina on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Except 
as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Page  11
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term "Authorized Allocation" 
means an amount equivalent to $3,700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed $8,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each 
such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
Page  12
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,400,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in 
strengthening the institutional capacity of central, provincial, 
municipal and local institutions responsible for public health policy and 
practice.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening the Public Health Surveillance System
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MS to make informed 
decisions in the areas of disease prevention and control, as well as to 
monitor the impact of such decisions, including:
(a)
development of appropriate surveillance roles for central, 
provincial and municipal public health institutions, through the 
provision of technical assistance and the organization of technical 
meetings;
(b)
review of  the Borrower's norms and procedures for disease 
surveillance, through the provision of technical assistance;
(c)
improvement of the capacity of MS staff responsible for 
health surveillance activities, through the provision of training in, 
inter alia, epidemiology, outbreak investigation, laboratory reporting, 
laboratory safety, data collection for decision-making and management;
Page  13
(d) 
rehabilitation, expansion and upgrading of the existing 
laboratory network, through the provision of technical assistance, the 
acquisition of equipment, and the construction of civil works;
(e)
improvement of the quality of the existing data management 
communications system, through the provision of technical assistance and 
training for specialized staff, the acquisition of computer hardware, 
software and communications equipment, and  the development of an 
internet-based network for data transfer and storage among the federal, 
provincial and local levels of the Borrower's public health system;
(f)
implementation of alternative surveillance methods for 
specific diseases, including a system of surveillance and control of 
non-communicable diseases, through the provision of technical assistance 
and training for MS staff in, inter alia, the design of data collection 
instruments, questionnaires, scales, sampling methods, record-keeping, 
and data analysis and collection, and collection of base-line data on 
risk factors and behavior; and
(g)
evaluation of the technical and economic aspects of the 
disease surveillance system, through the provision of technical 
assistance.
2.
Provision of financing, on a grant basis, of projects for the 
carrying out of studies and research in epidemiological surveillance and 
disease control.
3.
Evaluation of the effectiveness and relevance of training 
activities financed under Parts A.1 (c), A.1 (e), A.1 (f), B.1, C.1, and 
C.3 of the Project, through the provision of technical assistance.
Part B:
Strengthening Disease Control 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Participating 
Provinces and the city of Buenos Aires to carry out disease monitoring, 
control and prevention activities, including:
1.
Implementation of a program of actions for disease monitoring, 
control and prevention of tuberculosis, dengue and vector control, and 
hospital infections, through the provision of technical assistance, the 
provision of training for professional teams responsible for disease 
control, the acquisition of vehicles, the acquisition of computer 
hardware and software, and the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.
2.
Provision of financing, on a grant basis, of projects for the 
implementation of activities to respond to emergency outbreaks of dengue 
fever and other emergent and re-emergent diseases which may occur during 
Project implementation.
Part C:
Health Promotion
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MS to carry out a 
health promotion strategy, through the development of education, social 
mobilization and policy advocacy programs, including:
1.
(a)
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the health 
promotion unit of MS, through the acquisition of equipment, the provision 
of training for specialized staff in, inter alia, communications and 
computer skills, and the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.
(b)
Raising public awareness of disease surveillance and control 
issues, through the provision of training for health journalists in basic 
concepts of disease surveillance and control techniques.
2.
(a)
Development and implementation of a program of actions 
alerting the public about the risks related to tobacco addiction, through 
the provision of technical assistance, and the carrying out of studies, 
surveys and a media campaign.
(b)
Development and implementation, in partnership between MS 
and private sector corporations, of a pilot program of activities to 
Page  14
control tobacco addiction.
3.
Dissemination of Project objectives and activities, through the 
carrying out of conferences, workshops and technical meetings, and the 
production and publication of newsletters, educational materials and 
other relevant documentation.
4.
Provision of financing, on a grant basis, of projects developed 
through community participation to improve disease prevention and health 
promotion.
Part D:
Project Administration
Strengthening the Project administration and monitoring capacity of 
MS, through the provision of operational support to the Project 
Coordination Unit.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2005
through    August 15, 2014
         2,625,000
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to 
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  15
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b) 
Works estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made 
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; 
(b) the first contract awarded in each year of Project implementation for 
goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
Part C.1 (a) above; (c) the first contract awarded in each year of 
Project implementation for works to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.1 (b) above; and (d) each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more to be procured 
in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 (b) above.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Page  16
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount of $6,100,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the carrying out of training activities estimated to 
cost less than $45,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms for estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more; (ii) key staff of the PCU referred to under Section 3.06 (b) of 
this Agreement; and (iii) Core Technical Personnel of MS referred to 
under Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  17
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower, through MS, shall:
(a)
 select the Provinces (the Participating Provinces), and the 
Municipalities (the Participating Municipalities), eligible for 
participation under the Project, in accordance with criteria and 
procedures described in the Operational Manual; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, enter into an agreement with each one 
of the Participating Provinces (the Provincial Participation Agreement) 
and each one of the Participating Municipalities (the Municipal 
Participation Agreement), in accordance with standard contractual terms 
acceptable to the Bank as detailed in the Operational Manual.
2.
Except as the Borrower, through MS, and the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, through MS, shall not terminate, amend, or fail to 
enforce any of the Provincial Participation Agreements or any of the 
Municipal Participation Agreements or any provision thereof.
3.
For the purposes of Parts A.2, B.2 and C.4 of the Project, the 
Borrower, through MS, shall:
(a)
encourage potential Beneficiaries to prepare and submit to 
the PCU, for its review and approval, Subproject proposals, in accordance 
with criteria and procedures detailed in the Operational Manual, 
including a procurement plan for goods works and consultants’ services to 
be procured under the corresponding Subproject;
(b)
ensure that PCU shall review all Subproject proposals 
submitted by the corresponding Beneficiary and approve them if such 
proposals satisfy the criteria and procedures detailed in the Operational 
Manual;
(c)
shortly thereafter, enter into an implementation agreement 
(the Implementation Agreement) with each one of the Beneficiaries of 
approved Subprojects for the provision of a Grant to finance Subproject 
implementation, in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank as detailed in the Operational Manual; and
(d)
ensure that the Bank shall be furnished, for its ex-post 
review, a copy of each approved Subproject proposal, and a copy of each 
Implementation Agreement.
4.
Except as the Borrower, through MS, and the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, through MS, shall not terminate, amend or fail to 
enforce any of the Implementation Agreements or any provision thereof.
5.
The Borrower, through MS, shall:
(a)
throughout Project implementation, carry out the training 
activities referred to under Parts A.1 (c), A.1. (e), A.1 (f), B.1, C.1, 
and C.3 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference, training 
programs and implementation timetables acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
by not later than January 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, carry out the evaluation referred to under Part A.3 
of the Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, as detailed in the Operational Manual; and promptly thereafter, 
review with the Bank, the results of such evaluation.
6.
The Borrower, through MS shall:
Page  18
(a)
by not later than December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, prepare terms of reference for the carrying out of 
the evaluation referred to in Part A.1 (g) of the Project; and submit 
such terms of reference to the Bank, for its review and comments; and;
(b)
immediately thereafter, carry out the evaluation referred to 
in subparagraph (a) above in accordance with the terms of reference 
approved by the Bank and submit to the Bank, for its review and comments, 
the results of such evaluation.
