Report No. PID7733
Project Name                     Bhutan-Urban Development Project (+)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Urban
Project ID                       BHPE57570
Borrower                         Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB)
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Communications
Contact: Mr. Kinzhang Norbu, Project Manager
Urban Development & Housing Division
Ministry of Communications
Thimpu, Bhutan
Tel. No: 275-2-24338/9
Fax No: 275-2-24336/7
Date Initial PID Prepared        March 5, 1999
Appraisal Date                   May 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             September 29, 1999
Background
The development experience of Bhutan is unusual in that its present
infrastructure was built up from a tiny base in less than forty years. Prior
to the early 1960s, Bhutan was isolated from the rest of the world, and its
dispersed population was entirely dependent upon subsistence agriculture.
Since first embarking upon a process of modernization in the early 1960s,
Bhutan has made great progress in improving the standard of living of its
people. It has a 1991 population of 600,000. The RGOB's development
strategy has focused on striking a balance between, on the one hand, growth
in productivity and incomes, and on the other hand, a desire to preserve its
cultural and environmental heritage. A major emphasis will be on further
development of human resources, the provision of basic services to both urban
and rural communities, balanced development among regions, and
decentralization and community participation. On the basis of its
development strategy articulated in its five-year plans, the latest being the
Eighth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002), Bhutan has attracted very substantial
donor support to finance its physical infrastructure. At the same time, it
has improved education and health services which have greatly improved social
indicators across the board.
Although by international standards, Bhutan's urban centers are comparatively
small, both in population and land coverage, urban development is an
important component of this development strategy.   About 15% (90,000) of the
1991 national population is classified as urban. Of these, about two-thirds
of the urban population reside in Thimphu and Phuntsholing. Although
official figures on urban growth rates are not readily available, there are
indications of increases in the order of 5 to 10% per annum, with reliable
data for Thimphu recording a doubling of population over the last ten years.
With almost 85% of its population still residing in rural areas, Bhutan faces
the challenge of continuing rapid urbanization as the labor force continues
to exceed the demand for agricultural labor and as primary education spreads



rapidly and job expectations rise concomitantly, the government is confronted
with the issue of how to create employment for the rapidly growing labor
force outside the agricultural sector; and how to manage the urbanization
that will accelerate as the demand for non-agricultural jobs grows.
Since it is likely that much of future population growth will be concentrated
in urban areas, the government is placing more importance on the urban sector
than ever before. In addition to Thimphu and Phuntsholing, agglomeration
economies are starting on a modest scale in district centers. Despite their
small size, these towns cand evelop further because of the enermous efforts
involved in travel from one place to another. In this sense, Bhutam is a
series of small regional economies, whose linkages with each other are
improving; however, in the near term, the cost of transactions between one
region and another will remain very high. The government is interested in
promoting the growth of these regional economies as part of its policy of
balanced regional growth. District centers will play a key role in this
effort.
With this in mind, the project will seek to support RGoB's policy of balanced
regional growth and to provide essential services to the residents of these
urban centers. To achieve this objective, the strategic decision was made to
strengthen the institutional, technical and financial capacity of selected
urban centers, and to improve the coverage and quality of urban services.
Objectives
The objective of the project is to assist the Royal Government of Bhutan
(RGOB) in managing the urban development process by improving the delivery of
high priority urban infrastructure services in urban centers outside Thimphu
and Phuntsholing. This objective supports the RGOB's policy of balanced
regional development and decentralization. Achievement of this objective
will be measured in terms of the following key performance indicators: (a)
measurable improvements in the management of urban centers, including
increase in the number of trained personnel at the district level to
implement urban development plans, and to operate and maintain infrastructure
investments; existence of a functioning financial management, budgeting and
accounting systems; application of modern land management tools, increased
effectiveness of urban investments, etc; and (b) improved coverage and
quality of basic urban services (e.g., water supply and low-cost sanitation,
solid waste management, roads, river bank protection, retaining walls and
storm water drainage, and more efficient organization of civic space
(including parking). Specific performance targets and service levels will be
determined during preparation.
Description
The project will have two major components. The institutional development
component will focus at the district level. It will seek to build up capacity
in the effective implementation of urban plans and investment programs, and
on proper and timely operation and maintenance of infrastructure investments.
It will also seek to increase the participation of informal municipal
committees, where they exists. Finally, this component will also support
studies to strengthen the institutional and financial base of selected urban
centers.
-2-



The second component of the project will consist of physical investments in
selected urban centers identified as potential growth areas in the RGoB
Eighth Five-Year Plan. Investments would include: water supply, low-cost
sanitation, solid waste management, roads, stormwater drains, retaining walls
and river embankment protection, minor infrastructure improvements (e.g.
footpaths, street improvements), and more efficient and better designed
organization of civic space.
Financing
Total project cost is estimated to be about $14.5 million, of which the Bank
credit would cover an estimated $12 million. Potential co-financing of $0.5
million is expected from UNDP/UNCHS for technical assistance.
Implementation
The estimated project implementation period is five years. The Urban
Development and Housing Division within the Ministry of Communications would
be responsible for overall project oversight, while implementation at the
district level will be done with the district administrative and block
offices. A separate unit, responsible for the O&M of investments at the
district level, is proposed, which would be staffed with suitably trained
technical staff with adequate supply and equipment.
Benefits, Sustainability and Risks
Benefits:
The population living in the selected urban centers would benefit from better
urban and land use management, and improved provision of urban services and
infrastructure (water supply, sanitation, roads, stormwater drainage,
retaining walls and river embankment protection, solid waste management, and
other essential civic amenities). Government agencies, such as the Urban
Development and Housing Division of the Ministry of Communications and the
district engineering cells, would also benefit from technical assistance to
strengthen their planning, and O&M capacities. Training programs will be
coordinated with existing institutions
Sustainability:
[Note: Flag the factors critical for the sustainability of project
benefits.]Continuing commitment to a policy of balanced regional development
and decentralization will be essential to the success of the project.
Risks:
Success of the project will depend on RGoB's continuing commitment to its
urban development policy. There are strong indications that the Government
will sustain its support for decentralization and balanced regional
development/. Another risk to the project is the adequacy of trained
personnel at the central and district levels. The issue is not so much the
low levels of training, as it is the actual number of trained staff. In
general, existing staff although short in number are of high calibre.
Finally, on the cost recovery aspect, continued consultations with the public
combined with cost affordability analysis will be necessary to frame a
sustainable cost recovery policy within the project which would support
RGoB's policy of increasing self-financing for urban investments.
- 3 -



Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations
This would be the first World Bank-assisted urban development project in
Bhutan. However, Bank experience with project implementation has been
excellent, on account of very strong Government ownership and commitment to
effective project implementation, and good collaboration with co-financiers,
notably the Swiss Development Corporation. The portfolio currently consists
of two projects, the third Forestry Credit, for which implementation remains
satisfactory, and the Second Education Credit. The recently closed First
Education Project and GEF Environment Trust fund were also fully
satisfactory, although the education project had to be extended by 18 months
because of delays in school construction during the project's first few
years. Both projects met or surpassed their major benchmarks, with the
exception of teacher training candidates on account of a shortage of
applicants up to 1994. The Environment Trust Fund even met its conservation
benchmarks in three years rather than the anticipated five.
There are also lessons to be learned from urban projects in countries,
experiencing a similar low level of urbanization and weak institutional
capacity. These are the need to: (a) keep the project simple in terms of
design, scope and institutional arrangements; (b) emphasize the importance of
combining capacity building and investments; and (c) set out modest goals
which can be achieved within existing constraints. These have been considered
in the design of the project.
The experience from the DANIDA water supply and sanitation project in Thimphu
and Phuntsholing demonstrate the feasibility of cost recovery for O&M in
water supply. These projects introduced meters, a good pricing structure,
and most important, separate water accounts so that the little subsidy given
is not hidden. The sets an important precedent for other urban centers.
[Note:   Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the
Bank and other development agencies.]The The
Environmental and Social Aspects
Social:
Social assessments will be carried out during project preparation, in which
collaboration with local social scientists would be encouraged and welcome.
Environmental:
The project category is B. The urban environmental issues are well known and
rather straightforward in the context of Bhutan's small towns. The National
Environmental Commission (NEC) and RGOB have agreed to prepare simple, easy
to implement codes of practice on sanitation and solid waste management. In
addition, the project consultants are preparing a detailed EA which includes
a summary sectoral assessment.
Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) is putting in place an adequate legal
framework for Environmental Management and Assessment. In December 1998, NEC
issued Bhutan's National Environmental Startegy (an impressive document)
aimed for guiding sustainable development in Bhutan. NEC has approved, in
February 1999, an Environmental Assessment Process (EAP) which comprises an
- 4 -



environmental assessment manual and sectoral guidelines for the six main
development sectors; the guidelines include roads and highways, while the
urban sector will be taken up in the future. This has been approved by RGOB
and makes the EAP now obligatory. NEC further plans to introduce an
Environmental Act for approval by Parliament in July 1999. NEC has highly
competent key staff and is developing its institutional capacity further.
The project will assist this capacity building through preparation of simple
(environmental) codes of practice for the urban development and for the roads
sectors. Draft TORs for developing these codes and also for providing
training to NEC and sectoral staff during the project have been agreed with
RGOB.
No major resettlement is envisaged under the project.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 28, 1999.
- 5 -



ANNEX
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



