                                                Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                              Report No:ICR0000312




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                               (IDA-33100)




                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.9 MILLION
                                (US$ 10.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OF BHUTAN

                                                  FOR A

                        BHUTAN - URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                               May 2, 2007




South Asia Sustainable Development Unit
South Asia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               ( Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2006 )
                         Currency Unit = Ngultrum (Nu)
                                 Nu 1 = US$ 0.02
                             US$ 1.00 = Nu 45.77


                                Fiscal Year
                              July 1 ­ June 30




                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB    Asian Development Bank
BUDP   Bhutan Urban Development Project
ECOP   Environmental Codes of Practice
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
O&M    Operation and Maintenance
MOC    Ministry of Communication
NEC    National Environmental Commission
NPV    Net Present Value
MWHS   Ministry of Works and Human Settlement
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAPs   Project Affected Persons
PDO    Project Development Objective
PMU    Project Management Unit
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
RGoB   Royal Government of Bhutan
SEA    Sectoral Environment Assessment
UDHD   Urban Development Housing Division



                      Vice President: Praful C. Patel

                    Country Director: Alastair McKechnie

                     Sector Manager: Sonia Hammam

                 Project Team Leader: Toshiaki Keicho

                   ICR Team Leader: Kirsten Hommann

                                                Bhutan
                      Bhutan - Urban Development Project




                                            CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 31
Annex 6. Borrower's ICR.............................................................................................. 35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 53
M A P

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Bhutan - Urban
Country:                Bhutan                 Project Name:
                                                                      Development Project
Project ID:             P057570                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33100
ICR Date:               03/30/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      BHUTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 7.9M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 7.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Works and Human Settlements
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/12/1999     Effectiveness:         05/24/2000        05/24/2000
Appraisal:             06/12/1999     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/21/1999     Mid-term Review:                         03/15/2003
                                      Closing:               12/31/2005        06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry      None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 4                 8
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector           57                 36
Other social services                                           14                 29
Roads and highways                                              14                 17
Sub-national government administration                          11                 10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                              Secondary         Secondary
Environmental policies and institutions                        Primary           Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                  Primary           Primary
Other urban development                                        Primary           Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                  Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Alastair J. McKechnie              John W. Wall
Sector Manager:           Sonia Hammam                       Frannie A. Leautier
Project Team Leader:      Toshiaki Keicho                    Evangeline Kim Cuenco
ICR Team Leader:          Kirsten Hommann
ICR Primary Author:       Kirsten Hommann



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective (PDO) reflected RGoB's policy of balanced regional
development and decentralization and its dedication to environmentally sustainable
development. The PDO was to improve the quality of basic urban services in ten towns of
Bhutan, namely Bumthang, Duksum, Lhuentse, Paro, Rangjung, Tingtibi, Trashiyangtse,
Trongsa, Wangdue and Zhemgang. The project aimed to strengthen the capacity to


                                                ii

provide, operate and maintain urban services of the participating dzongkhag (district)
administrations, and improve the financial and institutional capacities of the Urban
Development and Housing Division (UDHD) within the Ministry of Works and Human
Settlement (MWHS) and the NEC (National Environmental Commission).

 According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) success for the project was to be
measured in terms of:
 · Percent of dzongkhag and UDHD staff trained in financial management, budgeting
and accounting systems, and procurement procedures;
 · Percent of dzongkhag staff trained in the following technical areas: land use,
planning/management, operation and maintenance (O&M);
 · Percent of O&M costs recovered from metering;
 · Percent of households with access to a safe, piped water supply;
 · Percent of domestic waste water disposed properly;
 · Percent of solid waste collected and disposed appropriately;
 · Number of rehabilitated/new community latrines; and regular emptying of septic
tanks;
 · Length of access roads and drains built and maintained;
 · Percent of civil works completed; these included footpaths, street lighting, market
sheds and parking, new/rehabilitated community parks and bus terminals, and erosion
control measures in selected towns)

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised. Neither baselines nor targets were defined for the project's
original set of performance indicators. During the Mid-Term Review of March 2003, the
number of performance indicators per the project's original design was reduced, in
anticipation that a smaller number of indicators could be more effectively and
continuously monitored. Simultaneously, targets for the revised indicators were defined.
Given the lack of baseline information at the start of the project, no reliable baseline data
is available to measure against these targets.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Safe and sustainable water coverage in 10 project towns
                                                             100% in all 10
Value                                                        towns (Paro's
quantitative or Not available                                target is 95%   average of 35

Qualitative)                                                 as some areas   percent in 10 towns

                                                             are not served)
Date achieved 03/15/2003                                     03/15/2003      01/03/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The construction of water systems has only recently been finalized in the

achievement)    majority of towns, and coverage is expected to increase in the near future.




                                               iii

Indicator 2 :   Improved capacity of project towns in fulfiling essential urban service
                responsibilities.
                                                              54 O&M
                                                              employees
                                                              hired and

                Very limited services and                     trained in all
Value                                                         10 towns,       44 staff was trained

quantitative or no O&M systems                                provision of    to operate and

Qualitative)    exisiting in the project                                      maintain the water
                towns prior to the project.                   services
                                                              launched and    supply systems.

                                                              testing of
                                                              billing carried
                                                              out.
Date achieved 03/15/2003                                      03/15/2003      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Citizen satisfaction with the new services.
                                                                              Water Supply
                                                                              Quality
                                                                              good-29%
                                                                              fair-67%
                                                                              bad-4%

                                                                              Garbage Collection
                                                                              good-30%
                                                              80% of          fair-33%

Value                                                         citizens        bad-37%

quantitative or Not available                                 satisfied with

Qualitative)                                                  the improved Urban Road
                                                              municipal       Surfaces
                                                              services        good-54%
                                                                              fair-40%
                                                                              bad-6%

                                                                              Condition of
                                                                              Footpaths
                                                                              good-50%
                                                                              bad-24%
                                                                              don't know-26%
Date achieved 03/15/2003                                      03/15/2003      01/03/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Water includes only three towns, as construction of systems were not finalized in

achievement)    the other towns by the time of the survey.




                                                iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Establishment of appropriate O&M mechanisms for project towns before the
                operationalization of the water supply schemes.
                                                              54 O&M
Value           No staff in 10 project                        employees      44 staff was trained

(quantitative   towns to operate and                          hired and      to operate and

or Qualitative) maintain services.                            trained in all maintain the water

                                                              10 towns.      supply systems.

Date achieved 03/15/2003                                      03/15/2003     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     07/10/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/01/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.50
  3     05/23/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.67
  4     08/23/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.75
  5     01/28/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.93
  6     07/29/2002           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     1.44
  7     01/28/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.17
  8     05/19/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.64
  9     11/18/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.43
  10    05/18/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      5.65
  11    11/11/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      7.67
  12    06/01/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      8.99
  13    12/22/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      9.55
  14    06/29/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    10.35



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
Up until the 1950s, Bhutan was isolated from the rest of the world and its dispersed rural
population was entirely dependent upon subsistence agriculture. Once it opened up to the
outside world in the 1960s, Bhutan embarked upon a far-reaching development strategy.
The Royal Government of Bhutan's (RGoB) strategy in every sector is guided by its
Vision Statement "Bhutan 2020: A Vision for Peace, Prosperity and Happiness", which
puts maximizing human happiness, not economic growth, at the center of the nation's
policy objectives. RGoB articulated Bhutan's development strategy in five-year plans, on
the basis of which the country has been developing the physical infrastructure of roads,
power supply, telecommunications and water supply to serve a growing share of the urban
population. There is increased impetus for the establishment of urban infrastructure and
services, particularly over the last decade, as a growing proportion of the rural population
accesses Bhutan's expanding system of formal education. For this increasingly educated
population, subsistence farming holds less appeal and has led, among other factors, to
increases in the number of people seeking to reside in urban and peri-urban settings.

RGoB is pursuing goals of balanced and equitable development in terms of urban/rural
and geographical distribution of development inputs. To this end, it seeks to ensure that
Bhutan's secondary towns grow in a well-planned manner into livable urban centers.
Despite its efforts, however, RGoB's provision of infrastructure and services in towns
outside the capital city, Thimphu, lagged behind and hindered the country's human and
economic development. In 1997/98, 50 percent of the most prevalent health conditions
could be attributed directly or indirectly to contaminated water or bacterial infections from
a lack of sanitation. The average distance to a tap stand in secondary towns was 36 meters,
and the number of household water connections was very low. Tourism development
suffered from poor sanitation in hotels, electricity shortages and a near absence of
adequate public toilets.

The Bhutan Urban Development Project (BUDP) was designed to support RGoB's
objective of achieving carefully planned growth of secondary towns with an emphasis on
the provision of hygiene and amenity-related infrastructure and services. In achieving this
objective, it also sought to encourage beneficiary and community ownership through
community-participation in urban planning and development, and the selective use of fees
for partial cost-recovery.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objective (PDO) reflected RGoB's policy of balanced regional
development and decentralization and its dedication to environmentally sustainable
development. The PDO was to improve the quality of basic urban services in ten towns of
Bhutan, namely Bumthang, Duksum, Lhuentse, Paro, Rangjung, Tingtibi, Trashiyangtse,
Trongsa, Wangdue and Zhemgang. The project aimed to strengthen the capacity to
provide, operate and maintain urban services of the participating dzongkhag (district)
administrations, and improve the financial and institutional capacities of the Urban


                                              1

Development and Housing Division (UDHD) within the Ministry of Works and Human
Settlement (MWHS) and the NEC (National Environmental Commission).

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) success for the project was to be
measured in terms of:
    · Percent of dzongkhag and UDHD staff trained in financial management, budgeting
        and accounting systems, and procurement procedures;
    · Percent of dzongkhag staff trained in the following technical areas: land use,
        planning/management, operation and maintenance (O&M);
    · Percent of O&M costs recovered from metering;
    · Percent of households with access to a safe, piped water supply;
    · Percent of domestic waste water disposed properly;
    · Percent of solid waste collected and disposed appropriately;
    · Number of rehabilitated/new community latrines; and regular emptying of septic
        tanks;
    · Length of access roads and drains built and maintained;
    · Percent of civil works completed; these included footpaths, street lighting, market
        sheds and parking, new/rehabilitated community parks and bus terminals, and
        erosion control measures in selected towns)

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised. Neither baselines nor targets were defined for the project's
original set of performance indicators. During the Mid-Term Review of March 2003, the
number of performance indicators per the project's original design was reduced, in
anticipation that a smaller number of indicators could be more effectively and
continuously monitored. Simultaneously, targets for the revised indicators were defined.
Given the lack of baseline information at the start of the project, no reliable baseline data
is available to measure against these targets.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)
The main beneficiaries of the project were estimated to be about 55,000 people in ten
secondary towns over twenty years who would receive improved infrastructure services.
The quantifiable economic benefits were derived from the time savings from not having to
fetch water, the health cost savings resulting from the introduction of potable water all-
year round, willingness to pay estimates for water, sanitation and garbage collection, and
incremental tourism revenues. Other beneficiaries of the project included the staff of
UDHD, dzongkhag administrations and the National Environment Commission (NEC).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project had two major components: (a) an Institutional Development (ID) component,
and (b) an Urban Development (UD) component, with investments earmarked for urban
infrastructure improvements.


                                             2

(a) Institutional Development Component (US$1.6 million). Its goal was to improve the
capacity of UDHD with regard to urban planning, land use management and mapping,
project management and monitoring, and the development and application of
environmental codes of practice (ECOP) for solid waste management. In addition, the
project sought to strengthen dzongkhag administrations, particularly with regard to
capacities to plan and implement urban development investments, and assure their
effective operation and maintenance. Support was also to be provided to NEC for the
development of environmental guidelines for the urban sector.

(b) Urban Development Component (US$10.63 million) included the following:
    · Water Supply and Chlorination in all project towns: Water supply investments
       were confined mainly to the rehabilitation and augmentation of existing systems
       and the construction of a limited number of new schemes.
    · Solid Waste Collection in all project towns, through the provision of communal
       refuse storage bins, tractors and trailers to improve storage facilities and collection
       services. Funds were allocated for the supply of equipment (i.e. two small
       excavators) and the development of garbage disposal sites with roads, fences,
       drains and caretaker offices. The program also included a training program for
       waste management personnel.
    · Sanitation: The program included the construction of five new public toilet blocks
       and the rehabilitation of three toilets. The construction of new toilets was to be
       started only if the local authority agreed to operate them on a pay-and-use basis.
       The project did not contemplate the installation of sewerage systems given the
       towns' small size. For emptying septic tanks, a truck-mounted de-sludging
       vacuum pump was to be provided to each town for emptying and disposing sludge
       at newly-developed landfill sites.
    · Urban Drainage: Eight towns were to receive investments in drainage, including
       new masonry drains and the reconstruction and covering of existing ones. For the
       majority of towns, overflows are due to inadequacies of existing systems. As part
       of erosion control of streams and rivers flowing beside towns, about three
       kilometers of erosion protection for river embankments was included in the
       project.
    · Urban Roads: This component included investments for upgrading 6.2 kilometers
       of existing roads operated by the municipal corporations, and three kilometers of
       new road development.
    · Civic Facilities: The project contemplated new or refurbished bus terminals and
       expanded parking areas in two project towns. Three towns were to benefit from
       new footpaths inside the town or near schools. Three towns were to benefit from
       investments to improve central open-air market areas and three from recreational
       parks.

1.6 Revised Components
The original components were not formally revised.




                                              3

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
The Credit Closing Date was extended once by six months, from December 2005 to June
2006, for the completion of some physical works.

The PAD refers to the rehabilitation or augmentation of existing schemes, and the
construction of new schemes. As the latter involved the development of land for housing,
including internal roads, drainage, street lighting and water, the PAD should have
described these activities as a separate component.

Changes in the project scope include the cancellation of a waste disposal site in Paro as a
suitable location, acceptable to neighboring communities and meeting environmental
criteria, could not be identified. In addition, land development in Paro was dropped as its
detailed plan and land acquisition could not be finalized by Mid-Term Review. Instead,
river protection works were financed in Paro. Although water meter installations were
envisioned under the original project objectives, their purchase was not included and,
consequently, added at a later stage. The TA contract was extended at Mid-Term Review
to allow for continued support to construction supervision, the preparation of operation
and maintenance (O&M) and cost-recovery manuals and the training of dzongkhag
officials in their use, and to help with the design of appropriate tariff levels.

Otherwise, there were no changes in the components defined in the PAD. An overview of
activities that were ultimately supported by the project in each town is provided below,
and detailed information on achieved outputs is provided in Annex 2.

Table 1.1: Activities Supported by the Project in each Town
                   Bumthang Duksum Lhuentse Paro Rangjung Tingtibi T'Yangtse Trongsa Wangdue Zhemgang
 Water Treatment     Y       Y       Y       Y      Y       Y         Y        Y       Y        Y
 Main Lines, HH      Y       Y       Y       Y      Y       Y         Y        Y       Y        Y
 Connections &
 Meters
 Drainage            Y       Y       Y       Y                        Y        Y                Y
 Public Toilet               Y       Y       Y              Y         Y        Y                Y
 Garbage Collection  Y       Y       Y              Y       Y         Y        Y       Y        Y
 and Disposal
 Street Lighting             Y                      Y                 Y        Y       Y        Y
 Footpaths           Y               Y       Y                        Y        Y       Y        Y
 Footbridges                                                          Y
 Urban Roads                 Y               Y      Y                 Y        Y       Y        Y
 Parking Area                                                         Y                         Y
 Bus Shed                                                                                       Y
 Market Shed                 Y       Y       Y              Y         Y        Y       Y
 Parks and Town                              Y                                 Y
 Plazas
 Land Development    Y               Y                      Y                          Y
 for Housing
 River Bank          Y                       Y                                 Y
 Protection




                                                4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
Background Analysis, Preparation and Design. This was the first Bank-financed urban
development project in Bhutan, and its design was intended to be simple and flexible.
Lessons learned from earlier projects financed by Denmark (DANIDA), particularly
concerning the feasibility of cost-recovery on operation and maintenance, were accounted
for in the project's design. The broad objectives of the project were well aligned to
RGoB's strategy of balanced development across the country (i.e. urban/rural,
geographical), and its expressed objective to improve livelihoods of the increasing
number of people residing in urban centers. The project's focus on the key role of local
dzongkhag administrations has proven to be highly relevant given RGoB's
decentralization agenda instituted over the course of the past several years.

The operationalization of these broad objectives into a manageable urban development
program was hampered by: (a) underestimation of the scale or level of support required to
central and local government authorities in order for them to carry out their
responsibilities; (b) overemphasis on flexibility vis-à-vis which activities were to be
financed, suggesting serious short-comings in the project's preparation; and (c) a lack of
adequate preparation for the land development component. The net result was that the
project was neither ready for implementation when the Credit became effective, nor
earlier on at the time of its approval.

(a) Assessment of Institutional Capacities of Key Stakeholders: Although Bhutan is known
for its good governance, the capacity of dzongkhag administrations in procurement,
financial management and monitoring was weak at the start of implementation. Even a
quick institutional assessment of available human resource and technical capacities, and
local circumstances (especially with regard to the design of the financial management
system), would have yielded a more effective and better targeted technical assistance and
training component for dzongkhag administrations. Equally neglected was the lack of
monitoring capacity at central level, where overall responsibility for ensuring adequate
monitoring and evaluation rests.

(b) Project Preparation and Investment Pipeline: As the first Bank-financed urban
development project in Bhutan, flexibility vis-à-vis the type of investments to be financed
was commendable. However, investments for the first years of implementation were only
defined several months after Credit effectiveness and following community consultations
in late-2000 (RGoB, May 2001). Detailed engineering designs, geological surveys, town
surveys and urban plans were only prepared after these workshops (AM May/June 2002).
O&M and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) manuals did not exist prior to Credit
effectiveness, nor were terms for cost-recovery through water tariffs defined or agreed
until much later in project implementation. The concepts were laid out in the feasibility
study (which, incidentally, mirrored the PAD), but were not sufficiently focused to inform
implementation. This resulted in slow disbursement in the early years of implementation,
and a delay in the start of some major components, such as the construction of water



                                                5

supply facilities, which commenced in most towns after a two-year delay.

(c) Land Development for Housing: During preparation the development of new town
centers was discussed with RGoB, yet no details of this component were outlined in the
PAD. The component was intended to accommodate shopkeepers in Bumthang, Wangdue
and Lhuentse, currently located on lands that RGoB considers to be hazardous (lodged on
steep slopes, others in a potentially flood-prone area) or an impediment to road traffic, on
newly developed lands that are expected to grow into new commercial centers. In
Zhemgang, RGoB wished to move the entire Dzongkhag administration to Tingtibi,
including commercial entities. Rapid surveys were carried out during preparation in
Zhemgang, Wangdue and Bumthang, indicating that the shopkeepers, at that time, were
not interested in moving to the new sites (Urban Development Project Preparation Study,
August 1999). No further preparation of this component was henceforth undertaken, that
could have involved alternatives (including options to mitigate safety concerns, where
these applied) or assistance in site design, and determination of allocation criteria. Instead
the site design was completed during implementation, causing considerable delays in
completion of the sites.      Similarly the absence of allotment criteria at the outset,
contributed to delays in allocation of plots to beneficiaries, which finally occurred in
December 2006.

Selection of Participating Towns. The selection of ten towns was guided by RGoB's
expressed wish to foster equitable growth and distribution of services across Bhutan's
urban centers. However, the geographic spread, the number and inaccessibility of towns
posed serious challenges to adequately monitoring implementation by central agencies
and supervision by the Bank. Given that this was the first urban project in Bhutan, it
might have been more prudent to have selected a smaller number of project towns, where
investments would have had a more sizeable impact and from which lessons could be
learned for later scaling-up to a larger number of towns.

Participatory Processes. Generally, development planning in Bhutan is highly
participatory. The Ninth and Tenth Five-Year Plans were developed through a series of
dzongkhag-wise consultations led by His Majesty the Fourth King. The move toward
increased decentralization of decision-making authority to dzongkhags and geogs (sub-
district administrative units) has increased the role people's participation in the
development process. As concerns this project, there is evidence that RGoB employed
participatory processes. A good example of this is found in the manner by which the
urban development plan was developed for Rangjung. Land-pooling, which involves the
donation of a percentage of land by private landowners for the construction of public
infrastructure, was explained to land owners in Rangjung and, through an iterative process
over five consecutive days, the views of the community members and urban planners
were matched to arrive at a final layout (RGoB, Urban Development Plan for Rangjung,
2002). Community workshops were also employed as the basis for prioritizing
infrastructure investments.

Risks and Mitigation Measures. A lack of capacity, both in terms of quantity and quality
at the dzongkhag level, was not sufficiently considered as a critical risk during appraisal.



                                              6

Consequently, more concerted capacity building measures were not included as part of the
project's design. The introduction of cost-sharing arrangements for the operation and
maintenance of the water supply schemes was appropriately identified as a modest risk.

Quality at Entry. No quality at entry assessment of the project was carried out by the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
Although the project was not ready for implementation at the time of Credit effectiveness,
physical investments and the development of capacity to operate and maintain these
investments were completed in advance of the revised Credit Closing Date. The initial
years of implementation were characterized by low disbursement levels, as town plans
and specific designs needed to be prepared, and dzongkhag-level project staff needed time
to familiarize themselves with Bank procedure. Geographical and climatic characteristics
of Bhutan caused additional construction delays. The ownership and commitment of
government was instrumental in overcoming these constraints, and the Bank team's
practical response to these issues ensured that physical implementation was completed
with only a six-month extension to the original Credit Closing Date. However, the
completion of several key components near to Credit closing made it difficult to
adequately assess their outcomes and impacts. The key constraints faced during
implementation are outlined below.

Bank Supervision. The initial years of Bank supervision were mostly dedicated to
preparing an investment pipeline, finalizing the design of the schemes and getting project
implementation started. However, the number and remoteness of project towns limited the
number of visits that could be made to some towns and the time the team was able to
spend visiting each town during its site visits, making it difficult to adequately assess the
status of implementation status in each town. At the time of the Mid-Term Review, it was
too late to suggest major changes to project components or implementation (apart from
the ones already discussed in section 1.7), and the Bank team decided to take a pragmatic
approach and focus on ensuring that works already underway could be completed prior to
project closure.

Contractor Capacity. The project was the first major development project executed by
private local contractors in the urban sector. Because of their inexperience, most
contractors faced technical capacity constraints, lacked proper construction management
skills and experience in resource planning. In addition, contractors in remote areas faced
problems in the procurement and transport of materials to work sites. As a result, some
contractors fell behind schedule and required additional time to complete their work.

Engineering Capacity. Project engineers had to work under difficult conditions to
supervise numerous contracts simultaneously. In several instances, they were supervising
contracts that were the largest ever implemented at the dzongkhag level. Capacity
constraints prevailed throughout implementation, as some engineers were not assigned
full-time to the project to attend to other duties in the dzongkhag, and/or were transferred


                                              7

midway through project implementation.

Financial Management Capacity. Credit disbursement was generally slow and lagged
behind physical completion. Dzongkhag administrations often submitted ineligible claims
or were unable to obtain contractors' invoices in a timely manner, as they were largely
unfamiliar with required procedures and subject to frequent changes of accounting staff.
This resulted in delays in the submission of withdrawal applications for reimbursement
from the credit and affected replenishment of the Special Account. The total value of
contractors' bills often exceeded the amount available in the Special Account, yielding the
Bank's rejection or partial approval of withdrawal applications. This led to delayed
payment to contractors, thus affecting the progress of civil works. Until more recently,
this has been a common feature of investment operations in Bhutan.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Scant attention was paid during preparation to the design and implementation of a
monitoring and evaluation system. Baseline data, supposedly collected by the feasibility
consultants, were not kept as benchmarks to measure project progress. Monitoring
capacity was neither available nor in-built at either the central or dzongkhag levels. The
Bank team attempted at the Mid-Term Review to redefine the project's performance
indicators, but, in doing so, failed to pay adequate attention to Bhutan's serious
institutional constraints and lack of incentives for stakeholders to monitor indicators. The
result was that reliable updates of these indicators are not available by project closure and
project outcomes are difficult to measure. In particular, reporting of relatively straight-
forward indicators, such as the number of households connected to a water system,
showed significant and implausible variation from one quarterly progress report to
another.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
Safeguard compliance is rated satisfactory

Social aspects. At the time of appraisal, a "Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and
Resettlement" was in place to address issues of land acquisition and resettlement
stemming for the project's proposed physical investments. The Borrower undertook a land
requirement assessment and subsequently prepared a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP),
which was adopted for the project in October 2004. By the Credit Closing Date, 19.5
hectares of land belonging to 68 landowners had been acquired.

From April to June 2006, local consultants carried out an independent impact assessment
of resettlement implementation. The study confirmed that land acquisition has been
completed and all cash compensation payments made. However, a number of
rehabilitation assistance measures remained outstanding. These included: (i) plot
allotments in Bumthang to six project-affected persons (PAPs); (ii) one PAP in Wangdue;
and (iii) land substitution to seven PAPs in Trongsa, Zhemgang, Trashiyangtse and
Duksum. In the case of one PAP in Paro, compensation for livelihood restoration was
refused in anticipation of plot allotment from RGoB. Given that procedures are now in



                                                 8

place and PAPs are aware of outstanding dues from RGoB, it is anticipated that these will
be completed in the near future.

Environmental aspects. The project aimed to improve the urban environment in project
towns by financing investments in clean water supply and solid waste management. As
such, there were no major negative impacts anticipated. The project was classified as
environmental category B, and a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared
prior to appraisal, including a simple Environmental Management Plan (EMP). According
to the SEA, the institutional and legal framework for effective environmental management
was already in place in Bhutan before project implementation. The project aimed to
further strengthen Bhutan's environmental management practices by financing
environmental guidelines for the urban sector including Environmental Codes of Practice
for urban infrastructure systems. The codes were later developed with DANIDA's
assistance.

To supplement the EMP, it was mandatory during project implementation for the National
Environmental Commission (NEC) to review and provide clearance for each civil works
contract under the project. This practice was strictly followed. For example, Codes of
Practice establish the criteria for selecting waste landfill sites, and MWHS/NEC assured
that these were adhered to.

An O&M manual prepared during the latter part of project implementation incorporated
adequate environmental monitoring systems. Training on monitoring systems was
provided to counterparts. The project facilitated partnership arrangements between
dzongkhag engineering departments and district hospitals so that hospital laboratories
could do water quality testing. The capacity of some dzongkhags to effectively undertake
O&M responsibilities remains weak. MWHS should continue monitoring the performance
of dzongkhags and ensure the regular availability of training.

Fiduciary compliance is rated moderately satisfactory.

Disbursement. Financial reporting suffered from numerous drawbacks, which led to
implementation delays and a persistent lack of updated and accurate financial data over
the life of the project. With respect to audit compliance, annual audit reports were
submitted on a timely basis and did not include major audit observations. For accounting
and reporting on project expenditures, a computerized financial management system was
specially designed to meet the Bank's LACI-based reporting requirements. However,
successful application was impeded by several problems, including an absence of in-
country IT support to maintain the system, a lack of connectivity between central and
dzongkhag offices, and frequent power outages. The system also required data entry of
payment vouchers, which was considered as an additional workload for dzongkhag
accountants. Another major limitation was that there was no in-built mechanism for
reconciliation between RGoB's own accounting system (Bhutan Accounting System) and
that of the project. This has since been largely addressed through the Bank's acceptance of
national systems for FM.




                                              9

Procurement. Procurement of works, goods and services was carried out in accordance
with Bank guidelines, and bidding processes were conducted in a fair and transparent
manner. However, as counterparts were largely unfamiliar with the Bank's procurement
guidelines, occasional difficulties were experienced, and to which the Bank responded
with appropriate and timely guidance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
Operation and Maintenance arrangements. RGoB at the central and dzongkhag levels
mostly achieved establishment of O&M systems to sustain the benefits of the
infrastructure schemes introduced under the project. These included: (i) preparation of
operational and cost recovery manuals and the training of dzongkhag-level officials in
their use; (ii) recruitment of additional staff in charge of O&M at the dzongkhag level;
and (iii) initiatives to introduce user charges for municipal services.

Follow-up operation. Although social and economic benefits were fully realized during
the life of the project, the investments undertaken are expected to enhance the living
conditions of the residents in the participating towns. RGoB has requested the Bank to
continue its support to the urban sector. The proposed Second Urban Development Project
is currently under preparation, although it is likely to focus only on Thimphu. An
Urbanization Strategy for Bhutan is currently being prepared and is expected to give
insights into where priority investments would be best made.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
Relevance of Objectives. The objectives of the project remain relevant to both RGoB's
current Ninth Five-Year plan and to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
November 2005. The CAS emphasizes better access to infrastructure and social services
to underpin future lending. The Bhutan Urban Development Project has provided physical
improvement to towns' water supply situation and their overall urban infrastructure and
level of services.

Design and Implementation. Implementation through dzongkhag administrations, while
not always smooth, has been equally relevant as RGoB moves to a more decentralized
system of governance. Capacity building through training and on-the-job experience has
been important for institutional strengthening at the dzongkhag level.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
The achievement of the PDOs is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The rating does take
into account the fact that despite the weakness of preparation, all physical activities were
finalized by project closure, and the residents of the ten towns have benefited from some


                                                10

form of improvements in urban infrastructure. More importantly these improvements
reflected residents' development priorities and, aspirations vis-à-vis the delivery of basic
services. These activities have been complemented with capacity building efforts to
ensure that the infrastructure such as water supply systems are properly managed and
maintained in future.        Notwithstanding these achievements, a rating of moderately
unsatisfactory is warranted given that the outcomes of some of the principal activities are
difficult to assess at project closure. In the case of water, not all households were
connected to the system by project closure, so the impact and sustainability of the
improvements could not be fully assessed. Similarly, the allotment of the housing plots
coming as late as it did, (six months after project closure) has made it difficult to assess
the outcome of this component.

PDO indicator 1: Safe and sustainable water coverage in ten project towns (partly
achieved).
The target set for this indicator at mid-term was to provide 100 percent piped water
coverage in the project towns (except Paro where the target was 95 percent). However, a
key constraint in assessing achievement has been that these targets were established
without baseline data. With the exception of Rangjung, Tingtibi and Zhemgang in 2005,
and Paro and Wangdue in 2006, water treatment systems have only recently been
inaugurated, and household connections are yet to be provided in many places. In
Bumthang, Lhuentse and Wangdue, households were allocated plots on which to build in
December 2006. This partly accounts for low coverage rates in these localities. Water
connections will be made to houses once they are built.

Given that accurate information on the number of household connections has been
difficult to obtain from dzongkhag administrations, the most recent reporting of March
2007 has been compared to coverage data from a sample household survey conducted in
project towns in February 2006. While some minor discrepancies exist, the average
connection rate of 38 percent based on dzongkhag data is largely in-line with the 35
percent coverage reported in the household survey. Nevertheless, the dzongkhag statistics
found in Table 3.1 below should be treated with caution.

Table 3.1: Water Connection Rates
                   HHs in 2005    HH Connections reported by Dzongkhag   Percent of HHs connected
                     (Census)         Engineering Cell (March 2007)2          in Project Town
 Bumthang                   582                     250                                43%
 Duksum                      60                       19                               32%
 Lhuentse                   162                       42                               26%
 Paro                     2,0001                   5693                                28%
 Rangjung                   128                      523                               41%
 Tingtibi                   125                       46                               37%
 Trashiyangtse              481                     202                                42%
 Trongsa                    528                     257                                49%
 Wangdue                   1,290                    343                                27%
 Zhemgang                   363                     213                                59%
1/From Feasibility Study, Second Bhutan Urban Development Project, December 2006
2/Information provided by MWHS, March 2007
3/Information provided by MWHS, November 2006, as data was missing in the recent update.



                                                11

When water systems were planned in 2000, the estimated size of each town's population
was, in most instances, smaller than the data from Bhutan's first full census (2005)
indicates. All systems appear to nevertheless have the installed capacity to serve the
existing population, provided the network is extendable to locations not yet serviced.

As project outcome, one would expect access to a clean piped water supply to reduce
morbidity rates from water borne diseases, the time required for collecting water that
could be used for other productive purposes, and to make daily life generally less arduous,
particularly for women who have primary responsibility for most household tasks.
Although the relationship between good health outcomes and the availability of clean
water, given its role in good hygiene and sanitation practices, is undisputed, links between
projects and health outcomes cannot be easily established, since other factors like
education influence health outcomes. A 2006 household survey data examined the
incidence of diarrhea and dysentery among adults and children over three. The same
households were asked if their water supply situation had improved over the past two
years. Responses to each question are depicted in graphs 3.1 and 3.2 below for Rangjung,
Tingtibi and Zhemgang where water supply systems were already in operations for at least
a year before the survey.

Graph 3.1: Perceived Improvements in Water Supply

            0               Rangjung                     T ingtibi                        Z hem gang

             10

                                                                                      83.16
                                                      80

                       72.73



    tnecr      50
         Pe



                                18.18                             20
                                                                                              14.74
                                        9.091

                 0                                                                                     2.105

                      Improved         W orsened    Improved            W orsened    Improved         Worsened
                              No change                       No change                      No change




As one can see from the household responses that water services are perceived to have
improved in all three towns. However, when comparing these responses to other project
towns where water treatment systems were not in place at the time of the survey, one can
see that approval ratings are not markedly different. While data from Rangjung and
Tingtibi do not provide a clear pattern vis-à-vis reduction in the incidence of diarrhea and
dysentery among adults and children, significant improvements were found in Zhemgang
for both groups. As noted earlier, a variety of factors contribute to health outcomes and,
therefore, these patterns are to be viewed cautiously.




                                                       12

Graph 3.2: Incidence of Diarrhea or Dysentery in Adults and Children
                                                      Adults
                      Rangjung                           Tingtibi                        Zhemgang

      30                                                                            26

        20                                                                               17

                  10
          10          9                                                                        9
                                 5
                            2                   2                                                    4

            0                                          0        2      1

                                       Adult_Past_3_Years     Adult_Past_Year
                                       Adult_Past_Month       Adult_Past_Week

                                                     Children
                      Rangjung                           Tingtibi                        Zhemgang

             50                                                                     46


                                                                                         25
                            16
                  10            11                                                            12     12
                      7                                         6      5
                                                1
               0                                       0

                                     Children_Past_3_Years    Children_Past_Year
                                     Children_Past_Month      Children_Past_Week




PDO indicator 2: Improved capacity of project towns in fulfilling essential urban
service responsibilities (partly achieved).
At the start of the project, no systematic operation and maintenance regime existed in any
of the ten towns. By the project's Closing Date of June 2006, a total of forty-four
employees were trained in the operation and maintenance of urban services and
infrastructure financed under the project. The outcome of this input indicator is perhaps
best understood through the longevity of assets, although it is not possible to assess that at
this time. A key input to ensure asset sustainability is the establishment of appropriate
billing systems for water users. Capacity to manage these systems was put in place in all
towns. In all towns, except Paro where tariffs existed before the project, water users will
have to pay for services once the systems are fully operational.

Table 3.2: Fee Collection Rates in Completed Water Schemes
                        Date when Water              Begin of Tariff            No. of HHs    Percent of HHs
                           System was                  Collection               connected     connected that
                           inaugurated                                                           pay bills
 Rangjung               September 20, 2005          September 20, 2005                   42             100 %
 Tingtibi                      June 1, 2005          November 1, 2005                   46                11 %
 Wangdue                                 n/a            January 1, 2006                 343      at least 70 %
 Zhemgang                      June 1, 2005          November 1, 2005                   213               10 %
Sources and Notes: Information provided by MWHS, March 2007

As construction of many water systems was only recently completed, formal billing
procedures were only recently introduced. Information from Rangjung, Tingtibi,
Wangdue and Zhemgang (no data was obtained from Paro), where billing was introduced


                                                       13

in 2005 or early-2006, shows that Wangdue and Rangjung have excellent tariff collection
rates, while Tingtibi and Zhemgang do not. The reasons for such low collection rates in
these two towns could not be ascertained, nor can the accuracy of data be substantiated.

PDO indicator 3: Citizen satisfaction with the new services (partly achieved).
Although a household survey was carried out in each town, including questions with
respect to respondents' satisfaction with the infrastructure and services provided under the
project, the results from the perception survey were hampered by wrongly applied codes
and missing observations. Moreover, in the absence of reliable baseline data and detailed
understanding of service improvements which may have taken place in some towns
without the Bank's assistance, the drawing of specific conclusions from the data is
unadvisable. The reported ratings below remain, therefore, broad and should be viewed as
such.

In Rangjung, Tingtibi and Zhemgang, an average of 29 percent of sampled households are
fully satisfied with the quality (odor, taste, color) of the drinking water, 67 percent
consider the quality fair, and four percent were found to be dissatisfied with it. In towns
where new street lights were installed under the project, 46 percent were satisfied with the
quality of lighting, compared to 31 percent in towns that received no assistance under the
project. With respect to neighborhood roads, 54 percent of households in towns under the
project considered the surfacing of roads to be of good quality. Similarly, 50 percent of
households sampled considered the quality and maintenance of neighborhood footpaths to
be good, compared to 24 percent who considered their condition as poor, and 26 percent
had no opinion.

Households were also asked whether they perceive improvements in certain services over
the past two years. Although most stated that services or infrastructure improved, the
pattern of response appears to be highly random, with little difference between towns
where the infrastructure was improved to those where it was not. However, in the absence
of reliable information about levels of infrastructure and services prior to the project, it is
difficult to interpret this data.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
The economic analysis at appraisal assessed: (i) households' willingness to pay for water,
garbage collection and improved sanitation; (ii) time saved by not having to collect water
from distant sources; (iii) health cost savings from improved water quality; and (iv)
incremental income from tourism due to town improvements. Taken together, these
benefits were then compared to the total project costs, yielding an economic rate of return
of 20.68 percent (information was drawn from excel sheets prepared for the appraisal
analysis, as the PAD does not accurately reflect the approach taken). Unfortunately,
baseline data, as the basis for these estimates, were not available, nor is it clear from
where and how they were derived.

There are two issues of concern in regard to the appraisal's economic analysis. The first is
that the inclusion of both willingness to pay for water estimates, on the one hand, and


                                             14

time-savings and health benefits, on the other hand, represents a sort of double counting.
The second concern is that tourism benefits that accounted for an average of
approximately 65 percent per annum of total benefits assessed cannot be attributed solely
to the project. RGoB limits tourist entries as a matter of national policy to support cultural
and environmental stability, and the link between improved infrastructure and increased
tourist entries is tenuous.

Considering these limitations of the appraisal analysis, the ICR economic assessment
applied the appraisal estimates for willingness to pay for water and compared these to the
costs of water schemes in each town. Even if considering 100 percent household coverage
in each town, of which all would pay five ngultrums per cubic meter (i.e. four times
higher than the actual tariff and amounting to an average of Nu 54 per household per
month expenditure on water, or the approximate mid-point of the willingness to pay
assumption at appraisal), the computed NPV is more than 70 million ngultrums or about
US$1.5m in the negative. When assessing both water benefits and tourism revenues,
based on actual tourism entry into the country during the past two years, along with more
conservative assumptions on incremental tourism revenue against total project costs, a
positive economic rate of return of 25.8 percent can be computed for the base case. The
usual assumptions with respect to the discount rate (12 percent) and the standard
conversion factor (0.9) were applied in these computations. Further details are found in
Annex 6.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The achievement of the PDOs is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Water treatment
systems and the expansion of the water network are expected to improve the quality of life
of residents in beneficiary towns. Similarly, project towns have improved garbage
collection and disposal, footpaths, urban roads, street lighting, market sheds, public
toilets, drainage etc., based on residents' expressed priority for attaining such services.
These activities have been complemented with building capacity in the dzongkhag
administration to ensure the sustainability of water systems and infrastructure provided
under the project. Even if the benefits of these investments are not measurable by the time
of project closure, the investments will have a positive impact in the long-term.

However, uncertainty remains with respect to the benefits of the land development
component, since allocation of housing plots was finalized only in late 2006 for three
sites, that is after project closure. Similarly, the benefits from improved water supply have
not been received by the majority of residents in the project towns, because construction
of these systems was completed with delay.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Reinstatement of livelihoods of project affected people. The independent impact
assessment of the implementation of resettlement measures confirmed that the project-



                                               15

affected families (i.e. families that lost their land due to land acquisition for the new
township developments or other infrastructure) have increased their incomes by 89
percent due to diversification of income earning opportunities through commercial
activities, subletting of houses and other opportunities. Similarly, the proportion of
families owning shops and vehicles increased by nine and 20 percent, respectively. The
study also confirmed that vulnerable people have used their compensation amount to
purchase vehicles and shops, thus enabling them to increase their incomes by about 61
percent. Compensation amounts were also used to acquire assets such as land and
livestock. The income of two non-titleholders was also increased by about 20 percent. It
can be concluded that the living standards of resettlement-affected people is better post-
resettlement. The study indicated that the overall cost of land acquisition and resettlement
is about two percent of the project cost. This compares favorably to other projects of this
nature.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
Financial Management Capacity. Support from ADB, technical assistance from the
World Bank and continuous pressure on fiduciary requirements have improved Bhutan's
financial management system and strengthened the capacities of accounting personnel.
This development led the Bank to accept the Borrowers' financial management system for
subsequent projects in producing financial reports, corresponding to the CAS' emphasis
on strengthening country systems.

Water System Management Capacity. Significant efforts were made by the Bank to
develop O&M procedures for water systems, including the establishment of a separate
account for water fee collection in each dzongkhag. These efforts were accompanied by a
series of consultations with town residents to ensure that the introduction of water tariffs
was acceptable. Since only a few systems were operational by the time of project closure,
it is difficult to ascertain the impact of these capacity building inputs, although they are
expected to have sustained benefits for the financial and institutional viability of water
supply systems.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
The outcome of the land development component is difficult to assess, as allotment
criteria were established and the allocation of plots only took place in late-2006 in three of
the four sites. The major reason for delay in plot allocation was due to the fact that the
number of potentially eligible shopkeepers exceeded supply. Getting a consensus on
appropriate allocation criteria for the limited number of plots took a long time, so that
final allotment occurred after project closure. Therefore the sites remained vacant as the
RGoB deliberated on options and criteria for plot allocation. This gave rise to speculation
that there was no demand for these plots that are laid on a grid, and that shopkeepers were
not keen to move to the new sites. However, according to information provided by RGoB
in March 2007, all housing plots have now been in allotted: 138 in Wangdue, 76 in
Bumthang and 24 in Lhuentse.

The situation in Tingtibi is different. RGoB's initial intention to move the dzongkhag


                                               16

administration from Zhemgang to Tingtibi was abandoned, and only 27 of 81 shopkeepers
were willing to take a plot in Tingtibi.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
A sample survey was carried out in February 2006 which included 2440 households in
sixteen towns. The purpose of the survey was to assess households' perceptions of
improvement in urban services and infrastructure facilitated under the Bank-assisted
project and in towns assisted by DANIDA (who co-financed the survey). Results of the
satisfaction survey were hampered by the incorrect application of codes during data
analysis and missing observations. While approval ratings have been generally positive,
interpretation of the results in the absence of reliable information regarding levels of
services prior to the project is difficult. However, other parts of the household survey,
such as questions pertaining to the water situation of each household, were administered
more professionally yielding better results. These are described in Annex 5.

Simple access statistics in Bank-assisted towns confirm the report on coverage by
dzongkhag engineers. Although most of the water treatment systems were only
inaugurated recently, data indicate that 73 percent of households in project towns rely on
water provided by dzongkhags. However, only 38 percent of households have a private
connection to the dzongkhag system, and 41 percent have to walk ten minutes or more to
the closest stand post.

Willingness to pay for existing services is generally low, but appears even lower in project
towns where water treatment systems were not in place at the time of the survey. In
particular, in Rangjung, Tingtibi and Zhemgang 50, 39 and 34 percent of the households,
respectively, are willing to pay at least Nu. 20 per month for water to retain their current
level water service, compared to Bumthang, Trongsa and Wangdue, where only seven
percent of households showed the same willingness. In Paro, where a fee-based system
was already in place, only 27 percent of the households are willing to pay more than Nu.
20. This suggests that the improved water quality or service levels in these locations may
influence how much the households value the service. It should be noted, however, that
the response rate to this question was low and findings could not control for the type of
service level (i.e. household connection or public tab) for lack of observations.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
This risk rating is given since the financial and physical sustainability of the water
systems could not be ascertained by the time of the ICR. Although suitable operation and
maintenance and cost-recovery systems were put in place by project closure, their
application could not be evaluated since most water systems were only recently
inaugurated. In addition, the allocation of housing plots to beneficiaries only took place in
December 2006, thus the outcome of that component is difficult to assess at present.




                                                17

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Bank's performance during preparation is rated unsatisfactory. The preparation lacked
focus and key preparatory activities did not take place. This led to significant delays in
project implementation, particularly in the early part of the project's life, and contributed
to difficulties in assessing development outcomes. The lack of reliable baseline
information is a major shortcoming that has seriously hampered assessment of the
project's impact.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank's performance during implementation is rated moderately satisfactory. The
initial years of implementation were dedicated to ensure that necessary preparation
activities were implemented speedily. The latter years of implementation were used to
achieve the given objectives within the implementation time frame, and to add activities to
ensure the water systems' physical and financial sustainability (e.g preparation of O&M
manuals, cost-recovery mechanisms, etc.).

Supervision teams responded pragmatically to implementation challenges. They focused
more on getting physical implementation finalized by project closure, rather than
modifying components. Exceptions to this including the dropping of some investments
and the addition of some activities to ensure cost-recovery and sustainability are however
noted. A more critical assessment of some activities to be financed under the project was
warranted, even if this would have likely resulted in further delays in implementation. For
example, the land development component lacked adequate preparation and design, and
was not documented in the PAD.

The supervision teams' ability to devote more time to frequent and lengthier field visits to
project sites during their missions was constrained by the nature of Bhutan's terrain and
the lengthy travel times between different parts of the country. The fact that such visits
were infrequent and usually brief made it difficult for the team to get sufficient and timely
information on implementation progress, and to monitor progress towards development
objectives. Given the limited Bank supervision budget provided to a small country like
Bhutan, the team could have complemented its supervision capacity by hiring a
consultant. This has proven to be an effective approach for other IDA-financed operations
in Bhutan (e.g. education).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Project preparation lacked critical steps that later had to be addressed during
implementation, and which yielded significant delays. Nevertheless, performance during


                                                18

supervision ensured that implementation of physical activities was achieved only half-a-
year later than originally planned. Given other constraints (e.g. weak capacity of
stakeholders, difficulties in properly assessing the status of implementation in ten towns
spread across Bhutan), this can still be regarded as a considerable achievement.

5.2 Borrower Performance
Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. Although capacity constraints were
experienced in all participating government bodies, the commitment to making the project
a success has been strong throughout preparation and implementation, and has been
critical to finalizing the implementation of physical works by the extended Credit Closing
Date.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
There is a trade-off between the number of project towns and the level of effective
engagement with local governments, especially in Bhutan. Urban projects have often
shied away from including numerous municipalities because of the risk of being able to
tackle only the surface of issues, and thus render effective supervision difficult and costly.
Exacerbated by Bhutan's inaccessible terrain, adequate support could not be given to
dzongkhag engineering cells and the engagement with the dzongkhags was fairly
superficial. Creating lasting capacity in the local governments requires more capacity
building efforts (ideally integrated with investments) and deeper engagement. This was
not feasible in a ten-town project spread across a country for which travel times are long.
One recommendation for subsequent urban operations in Bhutan is to reduce the number
of towns assisted under a single project. More substantial investments in fewer towns
integrated with more targeted and intensive capacity building of local institutions would
likely yield better results. This requires the use of transparent indicators in the selection of
benefiting towns and a thorough appraisal of investment needs.

Clear implementation arrangements and identification of capacity constraints are
paramount in a project, especially with decentralized implementation responsibilities.
Insufficient attention was paid to the engineering, procurement and financial management
capacity available within dzongkhag administrations to implement and oversee project
implementation. This let to knowledge and capacity gaps remaining unfilled by needed
technical assistance and sufficient training. Linkages between institutions           were not
understood, yielding in        poor cooperation between the MWHS and dzongkhag
administrations. The design of systems, such as the financial management system, did not
sufficiently account for existing ones. Institutional structures which require assessment,
incentives and accountability on the part of each actor need to be understood, and
supplemented, where necessary, with formal agreements between institutions, such as
MWHS and the dzongkhag administrations, such that roles and responsibilities are clear.




                                              19

Monitoring capacities need to be strengthened in central government institutions.
Monitoring arrangements under the project were largely ad hoc. For example, dzongkhag
engineers were supposed to collect data on coverage, tariff collection, etc., the director of
the project management unit was expected to collate information from project towns. This
division of responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation was not effectively
implemented, and a key function of central units is to guide and oversee decentralized
units in carrying out these functions. Permanent capacity to monitor and analyze data on
urban services needs to be built at the ministry level, both to support implementation of
programs underway, as well as to inform future planning and preparation of urban
programs.

Land development components require careful preparation and cannot be simply
subsumed as an offshoot of civil works. Land development requires careful assessment of
the demand for housing plots, participatory design of the new sites, geological surveys
and the preparation of upfront eligibility criteria. Such a component is not merely a set of
construction activities, as assumed during project preparation. This also highlights the
need to formally restructure projects when necessary.

Township planning workshops should be part of preparation not implementation. The
community consultations conducted during the first year of project implementation had a
confusing effect on the Borrower (see Borrower's ICR, lessons learned, point 7), and the
fiduciary team of the Bank, as planning and costing carried out under continuously
shifting scenarios became unwieldy. Instead of closing the agenda of eligible urban
investments and working on advancing the implementation of activities, it created the
impression that project activities were identified in an ad hoc manner and lacked sufficient
preparatory or upfront analysis.

More attention should be paid to ensure cultural coherence in urban planning.
Historically, Bhutan has been almost entirely rural in terms of its patterns of human
settlement. Therefore, urban planning efforts need to be carefully considered in terms of
their coherence and congruence with local norms, such as the layout of villages and
esthetic features of settlement areas. Under this project, town planning in Rangjung most
closely reflected settlement patterns in Bhutan with its avoidance of a grid layout. The
delivery of services and installation of infrastructure is more effectively and economically
achieved with grid-style town planning, particularly on flat sites. However, even within
such sites, the esthetic appeal and adherence to culture norms will need to be considered
carefully as housing is built, particularly in a country such as Bhutan with very little
history of urban development and strong adherence to culture and tradition.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower received a draft of the ICR and had no major requests for changes to the
draft. The Borrower provided additional detailed information, which is found in Annex 6,
'Borrower's ICR.'


(b) Cofinanciers



                                             20

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                          21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


        Components           Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                               (USD millions)          (USD millions)       Appraisal
Water Supply And
Distribution Systems                         0.00                     2.62

Solid Waste Collection                       0.00                     0.78
Septic Tank Pumping
Equipment                                    0.00                     0.30

Urban Infrastructure Civil
Works                                        9.20                     4.80

Institutional Support And
Training                                     1.60                     1.69

Operating Expenses                           0.00                     0.16
         Total Baseline Cost                10.80                    10.35
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
         Total Project Costs                10.80                    10.35
Front-End Fee PPF                            0.00                     0.00          0.00
Front-End Fee IBRD                           0.00                     0.00          0.00
 Total Financing Required                   10.80                    10.35



(b) Financing


                                        Appraisal         Actual/Latest
    Source of Funds        Type of                                         Percentage of
                          Financing   Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                         millions)          millions)       Appraisal

Borrower                                          0.00                 0.00
International
Development                                      10.80                10.35
Association (IDA)




                                           22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
The project had two main components: one was an institutional development component, and
the other financed urban infrastructure improvements.

Institutional Development Component: A team of TA consultants was hired to help RGoB
implement the project. In the initial years of implementation, consultants focused on the
preparation of detailed engineering designs and bidding documents as well as construction
supervision. The TA contract was extended at the Mid-Term Review to further help RGoB in
the following areas: continuation of construction supervision; preparation of O&M/cost
recovery manuals and training of dzongkhag officials in their use; and design of appropriate
water tariff structures. This extension in TA inputs resulted in the strengthening of O&M
capacity at the dzongkhag level and the introduction of water tariffs in project towns for the
first time in Bhutan's history (except for Paro which had water tariffs before the project).
Overall, the capacity of project dzongkhags to deliver urban infrastructure services was
increased significantly due to the project, although such capacity varies by dzongkhag, and
some remain quite weak.

Urban Development Component: Water supply treatment systems, extension of main lines,
water connections and water meter installations have been financed in all ten project towns.
Household connections are still low, as most systems have only recently been finalized. Except
for Paro where a suitable disposal site could not be identified, all project towns have received
assistance in improving garbage collection and disposal sites have been developed, in
accordance with Bhutan's environmental guidelines. Public toilets, street lights, footpaths,
market sheds, parks and other urban amenities were provided in several of the project towns,
depending on the preferences formulated during the urban community consultations.

Table A.2.1 below summarizes some measurable outputs provided under the project as of June
2006, the Credit Closing Date. Table A.2.2 provides information on costs of these activities.

Table A2.1: Outputs by Activity and Town
                 Number of HHs  Number of   Lengths of  Lengths of
                   with Water   pay-per use urban roads   urban
                   Connections    public       (km)     footpaths
                  (March 2007)    toilets                  (km)
 Bumthang                   250          0       1.800        2.040
 Duksum                      19          1       0.230
 Lhuentse                    42          1       0.500        1.000
 Paro                      5691          1       2.992          n/a
 Rangjung                   521          0       3.100
 Tingtibi                    46          1       1.160
 Trashiyangtse              202          1       1.650        2.560
 Trongsa                    257          2       0.700        1.000
 Wangdue                    343          0       4.800        1.000
 Zhemgang                   213          1       1.818        0.557
1/as of November 2006




                                           23

Table A2.2: Project Funds Spent on Activities in each Town (in Thousand Nu)
                   Bum-      Duksum    Lhuentse Paro      Rang-    Tingtibi  Trashi-   Trongsa   Wangdue    Zhem-
                    thang                                 jung               yangtse                         gang
 Water              15,201     4,801     8,871  26,635    12,106      5,940   15,395    19,596     16,988     8,236

 Metering            8,373       129       653      635      539        629    3,185     1,468      1,674     1,765

 Drainage            1,350       695     2,961    4,957                      lumped        399                1,601
                                                                              with
                                                                            footpath
 Public Toilet                   471       451    1,606                 464      484     3,685                  459

 Garbage             2,045     1,994     4,041             2,705       418     1,397     1,433      2,161     2,251
 Collection and
 Disposal
 Street Lighting                 249                         796               1,603     6,406      7,102       728

 Footpaths           2,277               3,167      952                        1,811     3,685      1,123     1,166

 Urban Roads                 lumped             22,380    25,044              12,050     3,201     26,921     1,217
                              with
                             drains
 Parking Area                                                                  1,080                            408

 Bus Shed                                                                                                       202

 Market Shed                     406   lumped     1,498                271     2,067       532       742
                                        with
                                        urban
                                        roads
 Parks and Town                                   3,758                        1,504     2,672
 Plaza
 Improvements
 Land               39,545               9,380                       10,256                        37,490
 Development
 for future
 housing1
 River Bank          3,792                      20,875                                   1,886
 Protection

1/does not include all costs of land development, as some costs are lumped together in categories like water,
drainage, street lighting and roads.




                                                     24

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The economic analysis at appraisal involved the computation of an economic rate of return,
assessing on the benefit side: the willingness to pay for water, garbage collection and
sanitation; health impacts and time savings from improved water supply; and benefits from
increased tourism revenue. The ICR analysis replicates only in part the economic analysis
carried out at appraisal, as water benefits are double counted and the willingness to pay for
sanitation and garbage collection are difficult to ascertain given that these fees (if paid at all)
are lumped together with other urban taxes. The ICR analysis, therefore, applied the
willingness to pay (WTP) for water estimated at appraisal and compared the expected benefits
to the cost of water supply only. In addition, the entire costs were assessed against the WTP for
water and an assessment of incremental tourism revenues from improved urban centers.

Water Supply
The appraisal estimate of WTP for water services ranged from Nu. 25 in Tingtibi to Nu. 79 in
Trashiyangtse, and was to reflect the monthly willingness to pay for water by each household.
The current water tariff is Nu. 1.25 per cubic meter (or 2.8 US cents), and by quadrupling the
tariff to Nu. 5 per cubic meter the monthly household bill would amount to Nu. 53.55 (based on
5.1 persons per household computed from the 2005 census data for project towns, and
assuming 30 calendar days). This tariff rate would correspond to the mean water tariff of 11 US
cents per cubic meter in lower income countries, and is slightly higher than the estimated mean
water tariff of 9 US cents per cubic meter for South Asian countries (World Bank, 2006). In
order to understand the medium to longer-term economic benefits of the project, all households
assessed in the 2005 census, and not merely those currently connected, are being considered in
the computation of the benefit stream.

Although the appraisal analysis has computed capital charges, as 2.75 percent of water supply
costs, in addition to operation and maintenance costs as three percent of total costs, the ICR
analysis has employed only operation and maintenance costs as one percent of water supply
costs for the base case. All financial costs were converted to 2000 constant Ngultrums and
adjusted by a standard conversion factor of 0.9. The appraisal analysis assessed the time period
from 2000 to 2019; yet, because of delays in the construction of the water supply schemes, the
assessment horizon is extended to 2021 in the ICR analysis.

Table A3.1 below displays the respective NPV achieved under varying water tariff/WTP and
O&M assumptions. Using a tariff rate of Nu. 5 per cubic meter (corresponding to Nu. 53.55 as
monthly household water bill) and O&M costs as one percent of total water costs as base case,
it is not surprising ­ given the experience in other developing countries ­ that the
corresponding NPV is negative. In most of the towns the WTP does not even cover the cost for
O&M.

What is surprising though is that the financial analysis of the water supply component was able
to compute a financial rate of return of 11.24 percent, assuming three percent O&M and 2.75
percent capital charges on total capital costs against a revenue stream consisting of water tariffs



                                             25

and user charges for solid waste and sanitation. Only if assuming a tariff revenue at least 40
times larger than the existing one at Nu. 1.25, it would seem possible to recover the financial
costs assessed at appraisal.

Table A3.1. Variation of the NPV (in Nu.) under Different Tariff and O&M Scenarios
            USD/HH/Month                   1.11          2.22          5.55         7.78      11.11
              Nu/HH/Month                53.55        107.10        267.75       374.85      535.50
                    USD/m3                 0.10          0.21          0.52         0.73       1.04
            Tariff in Nu/m3                  5            10            25           35         50

Operation &               1%       (70,398,681)  (57,463,781)  (18,659,082)   7,210,717  46,015,415

Maintenance               2%       (74,870,234)  (61,935,334)  (23,130,636)   2,739,163  41,543,862
                          3%       (79,341,787)  (66,406,888)  (27,602,189)  (1,732,390) 37,072,309
*assuming a discount rate of 12 percent

What also emanates from Table A3.1 is that a positive net present value can only be achieved if
one assumes a tariff rate (or corresponding willingness to pay) that is above the global mean
water tariff (USD 0.53/m3, ibid). Accounting for the more likely higher O&M costs, if water
systems are adequately maintained, the cost-recovering water tariff would correspond to the
mean water tariff applied in developed countries (USD 1/m3, ibid.). The likely conclusion of
this is that the capital costs of the water supply schemes were too high, despite most of the
towns allowed for less costly gravity-type designs with simple sand filter treatment systems.

The situation varies though by town. Wangdue and Paro, being the most populated among the
towns with 1,290 and 2,000 households, respectively, both exhibit an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 17 percent at a tariff rate of Nu. 25 per cubic meter, while small places like Duksum,
Lhuentse, Rangjung and Tingtibi with 60 to 162 households will have difficulties achieving
such results for lacking the necessary economies of scale. A second conclusion is that since
economies of scale could not be realized in most places, perhaps other means of water service
improvements could have been considered at appraisal in places with less or around 100
households.

Water Supply and Incremental Tourism Revenues
The appraisal analysis computed incremental tourism revenues by assuming different growth
paths of tourism entry with and without the project, and converting these entries into revenue
from visa fees per day (typically including accommodation, meals and guided tours) at USD
200 during the high season (March-May, and September-November), and USD 165 during the
low season (December-February and June-August). The appraisal estimate also allowed for
additional tourism revenue from shopping, other meals, etc, which are not being included in the
ICR estimate given a lack of reliable information.

Applying actual data on tourist entry recently published in the Kuensel (January 10, 2007), the
ICR analysis applied an average of the number of tourists that have entered in 2005 and 2006
(13,626 and 17,365, respectively) as the starting year from where one can assume growth of
annual tourism without the project (assumed at appraisal and in the ICR as five percent) and
growth of annual tourism with the project (assumed at appraisal as eight to 15 percent, and in
the ICR as eight percent for the base case). Therefore, the ICR analysis assumes a difference
between annual tourism growth of three percent with and without the project.




                                                  26

Also published in the Kuensel article is the distribution of tourist entry over the year, allowing
apportioning the number of tourists that have come to Bhutan during the high (82 percent) and
low seasons (18 percent). The average length of stay of tourists in 1998 was assessed as 7.1
days during appraisal, and the ICR analysis assumed a round 7 days for computing the NPV
and ERR. All cost and benefit streams have been converted to 2000 constant prices.

Based on these assumptions, the revenue stream from incremental tourism is assessed against
the total project cost, yielding a net present value for the base case (shaded in Table A3.2
below) of Nu. 534 million or US$11m, and corresponding to an economic rate of return of 25.8
percent.

Table A3.2. Variation of the NPV (in Nu.) Assuming Different Scenarios for Water Tariff
and Incremental Tourism Growth
            Tariff in Nu/m3                  5              10              25               35            50

Incremental               0%     (224,476,205)    (215,101,291)   (186,976,549)    (168,226,721) (140,101,978)

T o u r i s m             1%        10,814,274      20,189,188       48,313,930      67,063,759    95,188,501

G r o w t h               2%       263,175,000     272,549,914      300,674,656     319,424,484   347,549,227
                          3%       533,924,010     543,298,924      571,423,667     590,173,495   618,298,237
*assuming a discount rate of 12 percent

As indicated in the table above, assuming no difference between the growth of tourism with
and without the project yields negative net present values for whatever water tariff (or WTP)
scenario is assumed. Yet, considering only a small incremental growth of tourism of one
percent per annum due to the project yields large benefits. This is not surprising given the large
revenues made in this industry, and the application of a compounding growth rate for tourism
that projects 50 percent more tourist entries by 2020 with the project compared to not having
the project in the base case scenario (see Table A3.3. below)

Table A3.3. Tourism Growth Projections at ICR and Appraisal (Base Case)
                                        ICR1               ICR2             Appraisal3         Appraisal4
                                     Tourist Entry      Tourist Entry      Tourist Entry      Tourist Entry
                                    Without Project     With Project      Without Project      With Project
        2002 (actual)                   5,599              5,599
        2003 (actual)                   6,261              6,261
        2004 (actual)                   9,249              9,249
        2005 (actual)                  13,626              13,626
        2006 (actual)                  17,365              17,365
    Base year computed as              15,496              15,496
    average of 2005-2006
             2007                      16,270              16,735              ...                 ...
             2008                      17,084              18,074              ...                 ...
             2009                      17,938              19,520              ...                 ...
             2010                      18,835              21,081             14,500             24,100
             2011                      19,777              22,768              ...
             2012                      20,765              24,589              ...                 ...
             2013                      21,804              26,557              ...                 ...
             2014                      22,894              28,681              ...                 ...
             2015                      24,039              30,976             18,400             35,200
             2016                      25,241              33,454              ...                 ...
             2017                      26,503              36,130              ...                 ...



                                                     27

                                            ICR1                  ICR2               Appraisal3              Appraisal4
                                       Tourist Entry           Tourist Entry        Tourist Entry           Tourist Entry
                                     Without Project           With Project        Without Project           With Project
              2018                         27,828                39,020                    ...                   ...
              2019                         29,219                42,142                 22,300                 47,900
              2020                         30,680                45,513                    ...                   ...
              2021                         32,214                49,154                    ...                   ...
Notes:
1/Assumes 5 percent growth
2/Assumes 8 percent growth
3/Assumed Bumthang airport (for light aircraft) to be open after 2005. No significant improvement in any urban centers.
Continued growth of 5-8 per cent p.a. after 2005 and limited incremental hotel development.
4/Assumed average annual growth of 12-15 per cent p.a. from 2000-2010, if project towns are upgraded and made more
appealing for tourism (improved water supplies; improved sanitation; additional hotels/restaurants; and with Bumthang airport
available to handle BA142 jet aircraft (or equivalent equipment) after 2010. After 2010, assumed annual tourism growth of 8-
10 per cent, until 2019, with incremental tourist hotel development


Given the significant assumptions required to project tourism growth rates, and the omission of
other costs (transport, hotel development, sewerage treatment, etc.) that need to be invested to
accommodate double or triple the number of tourists to Bhutan by 2021, these results should be
taken with caution. Apart from these capacity constraints and, as noted in the main text of this
ICR, tourism entry in Bhutan is also restricted for several other reasons, among them the desire
of Bhutanese people to preserve their culture and not be overwhelmed by low-end, high
volume tourism as is common throughout much of the region.




                                                           28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                            Title                  Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Evangeline Kim Cuenco       Urban Planner                        SASEI Task Leader
Jonathan S. Kamkwalala      Lead Financial Analyst               SASEI Urban Finance
Carmen C. Severino-Jones Resource Management Analyst             SASEI Project Finance/Budget
Paul Blanchet (late)        Principal Procurement Specialist     SASEI Engineering
N. Raman                    Procurement Specialist              SASPR Procurement
Orville Grimes              Consultant                                    Economics
M. Balachandran             Financial Management Specialist     SARFM Financial Management
Rosanna Nitti               Urban Specialist                     SASEI Urban Planning

P.K. Subramanian            Sr. Financial Management            SARFM Financial Management
                            Specialist
I.U.B. Reddy                Sr. Social Development Specialist SASES Social Development
R.R. Mohan                  Social Development Specialist       SASES Social Development
Panneer Selvam              Environment Specialist              SASES Environment
Plus various other staff that however participated only for one or two missions


Supervision/ICR
Madhavan Balachandran Financial Management Specialist           SARFM Financial Management
Debabrata Chakraborti       Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS Procurement
Jaswant S. Channe           Consultant                           SASEI Engineering
Evangeline Kim Cuenco       Urban Planner                        SASEI Task Leader (till 2001)
Kirsten Hommann             Economist                            SASEI ICR
Jonathan S. Kamkwalala      Lead Financial Analyst              ECSSD Task Leader (till 2003)
Toshiaki Keicho             Sr. Urban Environment Specialist     SASEI Current Task Leader
Zahed H. Khan               Sr. Urban Specialist                 SASEI Urban Planning
Midori Makino               Sr. Financial Analyst               AFTU1 Urban Finance
Manvinder Mamak             Sr. Financial Management            SARFM Financial Management
                            Specialist
I. U. B. Reddy              Sr. Social Development Specialist SASES Social Development
Laura Vecvagare             Investment Officer                  CSFDR Land Management




                                                29

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY98                                                       37.42
                    FY99                                                      147.43
                    FY00                                     29               117.40
                    FY01                                      1                 -0.90
                    FY02                                                         0.00
                    FY03                                                         0.00
                    FY04                                                         0.00
                    FY05                                                         0.00
                    FY06                                                         0.00
                    FY07                                                         0.00
                                    Total:                   32               314.88
Supervision/ICR
                    FY98                                                         0.00
                    FY99                                                         0.00
                    FY00                                      5                43.34
                    FY01                                     16                59.17
                    FY02                                     19                95.65
                    FY03                                     22                83.53
                    FY04                                     18                89.76
                    FY05                                     19               107.82
                    FY06                                     10                62.58
                    FY07                                      4                24.49
                                    Total:                 111                552.81




                                        30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
A sample household survey was carried out in February 2006, covering 2440 households
in sixteen small towns. Seven of the towns were assisted by DANIDA several years
earlier, and nine of the towns were benefiting from investments made available under the
World Bank financed Bhutan Urban Development Project. Trashiyangtse was not
surveyed, because of difficulties traveling the road from Trashigang.

Household selection was completely randomized, by numbering dwellings in each town
on urban maps and selecting the households to be interviewed via a computer-generated
random number system. If the dwelling turned out not to be a household, the interviewers
were supposed to interview the most adjacent household available. In the absence of
accurate population statistics at the time of survey planning, it was difficult to determine
the sample size. Nor were prior surveys available, which could have been used to apply a
different sampling methodology and could have informed on the application of sample
weights. Jointly with the RGoB and DANIDA, it was decided to sample about 30 percent
of the households in smaller towns, and this was reduced for larger towns to about 5
percent. Actual implementation of the survey did however not adhere to this broad
guidance.

Table A5.1: Name of Towns and Number of Households Sampled
 WB assisted      No of HH     As % of HHs        DANIDA         No of HH     As % of HHs
 Towns            surveyed      assessed in        assisted       surveyed     assessed in
                               2005 Census         Towns                       2005 Census

 Bumthang                 185           32%   Damphu                     94            25%
 Duksum                    25           42%   Gelephu                   500            21%
 Lhuentse                  40           25%   Gyelposhing                88            24%
 Paro                      98            5%   Phuentsholing             216              5%
 Rangjung                  22           17%   Samtse                    222            22%
 Tingtibi                  30           24%   Thimphu                   421              3%
 Trongsa                  102           19%   Trashigang                 67            15%
 Wangdue                  235           18%
 Zhemgang                  95           26%


Data collection and data entry was plagued with significant problems, for the consultants
selected had not sufficient capacity to carry out the assignment. The result is that
valuable observations had to be omitted because of wrong coding, data entry or no
responses.

Apart from the typical concerns with respect to household data collection, perception
surveys (which formed part of the survey questionnaire) have their own intrinsic
problems, as they are not easily quantifiable, lack clear specification of the commodity to
be valued and may be influenced by the respondent's characteristics. This survey is no
different, and the result on the citizen satisfaction is omitted from the discussion below.
Instead, more reliable information on the water supply situation is computed for each
town in the following section.




                                             31

Water. Starting with some descriptive statistics, Tables A5.2 and A5.3 provide an
overview of the water access situation in World Bank assisted and DANIDA assisted
towns. Of the 832 households sampled in World Bank assisted towns, a vast majority of
73 percent rely on water provided by the dzongkhag. In DANIDA sampled towns 89
percent receive their water from the dzongkhag.

Table A5.2: Type of Water Access in Each Town
             Town Name                Piped Water     Piped Water,      Other      Total
                                          from        but not from
                                       Dzongkhag       Dzongkhag

 World Bank assisted Towns
 Bumthang                                       122              39         24        185
 Duksum                                          11              12           2        25
 Lhuentse                                         16             16           8        40
 Paro                                            97               0           1        98
 Rangjung                                        20               1           1        22
 Tingtibi                                        28               0           2        30
 Trongsa                                          60             30         12        102
 Wangdue                                        168              23         44        235
 Zhemgang                                        85               7           3        95
 Subtotal                                       607             128         97        832
 DANIDA assisted Towns
 Damphu                                          75               6         11         92
 Gelephu                                        427              55         18        500
 Gyelposhing                                     83               4           1        88
 Phuentsholing                                  187               6         23        216
 Samtse                                          202             13           7       222
 Thimphu                                        398              15           8       421
 Trashigang                                      61               4           0        65
 Subtotal                                      1433             103         68       1604
 Total                                         2,040            231        165      2,436
Note: The category "Other" includes water from public tap, well water, and water from spring, river or
other open sources. Unfortunately, the interviewer did not carefully distinguish between private piped
water connection and piped water from a public tap, which is evident from household responses on the
distance to the water source. Therefore, the number of households that rely on piped water from the
dzongkhag is underestimated here.

Receiving piped water from the dzongkhag does not imply a private household
connection (see note for table A.5.2). What emerges from Table A5.3 below is that only
42 percent in World Bank assisted and 67 percent in DANIDA assisted towns have
access to water within their property (house or garden). A significant number of
households in World Bank assisted towns (41 %) report walking to their nearest water
source more than ten minutes, the worst situation being the one in Duksum.

Combining the distance to the water source with the provider of that water suggests that
38 percent of households in World Bank assisted towns have private access to water
provided by the dzongkhags. This statistic is comparable to the average household
connection rate of 35 percent reported by the dzongkhag engineers (see Table 3.1 in the
main document).


                                                  32

Table A5.3: Distance to Water Source in Each Town
 Town Name                                          within     less than 5  between 5    more than      Total
                                                    property    minutes      and 10     10 minutes
                                                                  walk      minutes
 World Bank assisted Towns
 Bumthang                                                  68           16        10            88         182
 Duksum                                                     2            0          0           23           25
 Lhuentse                                                  12            5          1           22           40
 Paro                                                      57            2          1           38           98
 Rangjung                                                  11            2          1             7          21
 Tingtibi                                                  10            4          3           13           30
 Trongsa                                                   48            5          6           42         101
 Wangdue                                                   98           66        13            54         231
 Zhemgang                                                  38            6          0           50           94
 Subtotal                                                 344          106        35           337         822
 DANIDA assisted Towns
 Damphu                                                    31           13          6           42           92
 Gelephu                                                 219            39        28           209         495
 Gyelposhing                                               46            5          1           36           88
 Phuentsholing                                           187            22          1             5        215
 Samtse                                                   178           28          9             6        221
 Thimphu                                                 365            47          3             3        418
 Trashigang                                                41            6          2           15           64
 Subtotal                                               1067           160        50           316        1593
 Total                                                  1,411          266        85           653       2,415


Households were also asked what they perceive are the problems with the current water
system. They had a choice of selecting three issues from a list of seven pre-identified
common concerns with respect to water and the option to voice issues not identified in
the list. Water leakages, lack of water pressure and issues with the clarity of water appear
to dominate the list of complaints in most towns, followed by problems with respect to
the availability of water. Some households also raised concerns with regard to the taste of
water.

Graph A5.1: Issues with Current Water System (3 picks per household)
                                 Bumthang                   Duksum                        Lhuentse
   0                             166
    20                     124132
      0
       10                                 61
                                       42                                           31 32 27        21
                                     2       0  2    14 16 16  0 4   19
                                                                         0 0                 1  7      1 0
         0

                                    Paro                    Rangjung                        Tingtibi
          0
           20
             0
                              63 64       76
              10
                           14        4 1     16 1    15 10 12  1 5   14  0 0        14 23 26
                                                                                             0  1   16 1 0
                0

                                  Trongsa                   Wangdue                      Zhemgang
                 0
                  20                                       162       151
                                                     124
                    0                                   107
                           69 62 78                                                       77
                     10                   51                                        48 57           52

                                     1 9     0  0              9 20     10                      27
                                                                           2                 4         3 1
                       0




                                                              33

            Problems_Water_Clarity              Problems_Water_Pressure      Problems_Water_Leakage

            Problems_Water_Billing_Process      Problems_Water_Taste         Problems_Water_Availability

            Problems_Water_Cost                 Problems_Water_Other




Given these concerns, households were subsequently asked whether they would have
preferred to stay with the former water system, which 98 percent (including all towns)
declined. The key reason of 87 percent of the households to switch to a piped water
system in the first place was convenience, and not distances (1 percent) or water quality
(10 percent). 89 percent of the households boil and 7 percent filter their water before
drinking.

Households were asked also, how many more Ngultrums per month they are willing to
pay to retain the current water service (Table A.5.4). In World Bank assisted towns only
4 percent are willing to pay more than Nu. 50, compared to 20 percent in DANIDA
assisted towns. A possible explanation for this difference is that Thimphu, Phuentsholing
and Gelephu have relatively more wealthy households than any other town, so
households can afford to pay more.

Table A5.4: Willingness to Pay to Retain the Current Water Service?
 Town Name                           10 Nu. (per   20 Nu. (per        20 to 50     50 to 100          100 to 150
                                       month)         month)          Nu. (per      Nu (per            Nu. (per
                                                                      month)         month)             month)
 World Bank assisted Towns
 Bumthang                                    31                2              0               0                0
 Paro                                        45                4             20               4                0
 Rangjung                                     4                6              5               4                1
 Tingtibi                                     5                6              6               1                0
 Trongsa                                     14                0              1               0                0
 Wangdue                                     75              20               5               2                0
 Zhemgang                                    33              18              24               2                0
 Subtotal                                   207              56              61              13                1
 DANIDA assisted Towns
 Damphu                                      17                0              0               0                0
 Gelephu                                    197              80              93              20                4
 Gyelposhing                                  0                1              0               0                0
 Phuentsholing                                4              24              20              76                2
 Samtse                                       0                1              0               0                0
 Thimphu                                    192              76              44              34               19
 Trashigang                                   3                2             14              21               13
 Subtotal                                   413             184             171            151                38
 Total                                      620             240             232            164                39




                                                      34

Annex 6. Borrower's ICR

Basic Data

            A. Credit Identification

           1. Country                       Bhutan
           2. Credit Number                 BHU 3310
           3. Project Title                 Bhutan Urban Development
           4. Borrower                      Royal Government of Bhutan
           5. Executing Agency             Department of Urban Development and
                                           Engineering Services
           6. Credit Amount                 SDR 7,900,000 equivalent to 10.8 million US$
           7. PCR Number                    BHU

            B. Credit Details

           1. Appraisal
               Expected Effective Date                       31/1/2000
               Expected Close Date                           31/12/2005
           2. Loan Negotiations
               Actual Start Date                             1/9/2000
               Actual Completion Date                        30/6/2006
           3. Date of Board Approval
           4. Date of Loan Agreement                         16/2/1000
           5. Date of Loan Effectiveness                     24//5/2000
               As per development Credit Agreement
                       Actual                                24/5/2000
                       Number of Extensions                  1

           C. Terms of Credit

           Service Charge              ¾ of 1 percent per annum
           Maturity                     40 years
           Grace Period                 10 years

Introduction. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
World Bank, at the close of the Bhutan Urban Development Project (BUDP). The report
format is based on formerly produced Project Completion Reports for similar projects
within the South Asian Region.

The report attempts to present a comprehensive scenario of the actual performance of the
project against the targets set out in the Project Implementation Plan at the appraisal stage
of the project.




                                              35

The Report attempts to present a precise situation analysis, while attempting to reflect the
knowledge of the Borrower concerning the situations which led to the Project's
inception, its evolution and how it has benefited the project coverage citizen at large, the
Royal Government of Bhutan, and specifically the 8 dzongkhags and the Department of
Urban Development and Engineering Services of the Ministry of Works and Human
Settlements, in carrying out miscellaneous works, including construction/installation of
footpaths, street lighting, access roads, and storm-water drains; improvement of
community market places; provision of solid waste collection and septic tank de-sludging
equipment, modernization of land fills and rehabilitation of public toilets in 10 secondary
towns and addressing the issue of sustainability of utilities built under the project through
introduction of cost recovery.

Project Description. The Bhutan Urban Development Project was formulated based on
aid coordination priority demarcation between the major donors to urban sector of the
Ministry of Works and Human Settlements. These were
    · ADB to support transport and storm water drainage within the urban areas of
        Thimphu and Phuentsholing.
    · The Danish Government to support water supply and sanitation within urban
        areas of Thimphu, Phuentsholing, Mongar, Trashigang and Mongar;
    · The World Bank to support infrastructure development in smaller urban centers
        of Bhutan.

The demarcation of responsibility gave rise to this project to support 10 secondary towns
concentrating on a project, which focused on the construction specific physical
infrastructure such as
    · urban roads,
    · footpaths,
    · water supply and treatment systems,
    · roadside drains,
    · landfill sites,
    · storm water drains,
    · market sheds,
    · public toilets,
    · parking areas and bus shelters,
    · river training and river bank protections,
    · streetlights,
    · children parks and town plazas,
    · water distribution and installation of meters and chambers etc.

The intention being that other major towns are developed through funding from other
donor partners the Royal Government of Bhutan would achieve development of the
smaller urban centers located all over Bhutan and achieve its development philosophy of
regionally balanced development.

The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of life through enhancement of



                                            36

basic urban services in 10 selected secondary towns spread across Bhutan and to that end
(a) to strengthen the financial and institutional capacity of the dzongkhag administrations
to deliver such services; and (b) to finance high priority investments in such services for
which there is broad public support e.g. potable water supply. This reflects the Royal
Government of Bhutan's (RGoB) policy of balanced regional development and
decentralization, and its dedication to environmentally sustainable development.

In keeping with the above broad objective the Project is expected to strengthen the
capacity of the Department of Urban Development and Engineering Services of the
Ministry of Works and Human Settlement and the project dzongkhag administrations in
(a) urban planning and implementation of urban development investments, focusing on
adequate operations and maintenance (O&M) and (c) project management and
monitoring within the DUDES and project dzongkhags. Success of the project was
expected to b measured in terms of (i) the development of well planned and livable
districts centers, designed with respect for the local cultural context. (ii) Improved O&M
of urban development investments supported by adequately trained staff and equipment
and (iii) improvement in the procurement and financial management capacity of the
DUDES and the project dzongkhags.

The project effective date was 24 May 2000 but actual implementation commenced by
September 2000 only with the arrival of the Chief Technical Expert of the project that
was on a long term assignment for 2 years. The 5 years project completion date was
scheduled for 31 December 2005 but it was extended by another 6 months till June 2006
because one town development in Bumthang and some later contracts on construction of
chambers and installation of water meters in few towns like Bumthang, Trashiyangtse
and Duksum were still not completed.

Beside the project's aim in having all consumers connected to potable water, which is
metered and charged, was not fully met. Thus, although the project implementation had
picked up satisfactorily by the 3rd and 4th year of the project, overall development
objective was not being met fully. Due to these factors the project completion date was
extended to 30 June 2006. By June all infrastructure developments planned under the
project are completed satisfactorily except some components of Internal Roads Dekilling,
Bumthang where the blacktopping of the roads has been stopped because the rainy
season is not conducive to the black topping works. But all required raw materials like
stone chips; sand and Bitumen are stacked at site. The works is expected to complete
after the rain stops by September/October.

Later again the Chief Technical Expert's term was extended by another 12 months
because the regular bi-annual supervision missions from the World Bank felt the need for
the presence of a full time technical expert at site till all major infrastructure development
works are completed.

Details of Project Components. The project comprises of three major components as
follows:




                                              37

1.      Civil works
The budget kept for civil works category was US $ 10,217,756 inclusive of un-allotted
amount. Of this amount till 30 June 2006 the project has spend 9,747,400 or 95% of the
budget. The expenditure break up for this figure is as follows i) Solid Waste and
Sanitation 468,112, ii) urban infrastructure 5,866,408 and iii) water supply and
distribution 3,412,880. Town wise budget allocation and expenditure to 30 June 2006 is
as outlined below

Name of Towns        Allocation             Expenditure (Nu. In millions)
1. Paro                 89.460                   82.516
2. Wangdue             106.682                   96.997
3. Trongsa              45.694                   43.608
4. Zhemgang             19.207                   18.034
5. Tingtibi             18.994                   17.978
6. Bumthang             72.697                   72.005
7. Ranjung              42.698                   41.181
8. Tarshi Yangtse       39.596                    40.859
9. Duksum                9.226                     8.778
10. Lhuntse            33.620                     32.836

All towns have kept within or below their contract amounts approved except in the case
of Trashiyangtse town that has overspent the contracted amount of all activities by
Nu.1.300 millions of the total. This is basically because there were too many contract
variation approvals. Almost every contracts awarded in Trashiyangtse town have had one
or up to three contract variation approvals.

At the earlier stage of the project all tenders have been processed using the Standard
Bidding Document of the World Bank and clearances were sort for every contract. After
the mid term review in March 2003 after the project implementing units in the
dzongkhags/towns pointed out that the Standard Bidding Document was too voluminous
and rather difficult for smaller contractors to follow, the review mission taking advice
from the Procurement Specialist directed the Project Management Unit to use a simpler
Bidding Document for smaller works which was being used in India. This proved more
users friendly for our petty contractors' majority of who are illiterate and often dependent
on semi-qualified engineers.

Under the project the procurement methods followed for all works contracts was National
Competitive Bidding. During the earlier two ­ three years of the project majority of the
contracts were of small size and post review method was followed. The value of the
contract was ranging from Nu. 100,000 to 2 million. The participating contractors were
limited to petty or class `C'. After the March 2003 Mid Term Review to attract larger
contractors to participate and also to complete all planned works within the project
period, the review mission advised that we package 3-4 activities together into one
contract package and float larger contracts to attract classes A & B contractors who are
believed to have better experience, technical manpower and equipment. This helped to
ensure that majority of the planned contracts were completed on time. Now all contracts



                                            38

(works) are completed with the exception of Dekilling Internal Roads contract. This
contract was delayed because of reasons beyond our control such as poor quality soil
which led to the requirement of soil investigation, non availability of good quality stone
quarry, sub-soil seepage detection during construction, which led us to add additional
works like construction of surface cut-off drains to control unwarranted water seepage
etc. Anyway all planned works are complete by June 2006.

2.      Procurement of Goods
The World Bank assisted Urban Development Project IDA Credit # BHU 3310
commenced implementation from May 2000. The total budget inclusive of un-allotted
amount kept for procurement of Goods like equipment and materials, solid waste and
sanitation and water supply and distribution was US $ 1,073,348 by June 30 2006 the
project had incurred US $1,071,254. The goods purchased consisted of Office
Equipment, Computers and accessories, vehicles, machineries, Survey Equipment,
survey soft wares and instruments, local area network facilities, scanners, material testing
equipment, CD Writers, Digital cameras, waste disposal equipment, tractors and trailers,
Dump trucks, household waste bins, water supply design software, water meters,
plumbing equipment, water testing equipment, chemicals and reagents, Bobcat spare
parts and repair/overhauling of two old vacuum tankers. The beneficiary of the goods is
mostly 10 project towns/dzongkhags, central department and related units backstopping
the towns/dzongkhags.

The thresholds for procurement methods and prior review were as follows:
 Expenditure category    Contract value threshold Procurement Method          Contract
                                                                           subject to prior
                                                                              revision
 1) Works                More than US $ 50,000    NCB                     More than US$
                         Up to US $ 50,000        NS/FA/Unit/price/rate   100,000
                                                  system                  None
 2) Goods                More than US $ 50,000    ICB                     All
 Computer & office       Up to US$ 50,000         International/National  None
 equipment               Up to US$ 50,000         Shopping                None
 Books, periodicals      Up to US$ 50,000         Direct contracting.
 audiotapes, Computer
 software etc
 3) Services ­ Technical More than US $ 200,000   QCBS                    All
 Training                More than US $ 100,000   QCBS (shortlist could   All
                         Up to 200,000            comprise entirely of    Individual
                         Up to US $ 100,000       national consultant     consultants
                                                  Single source           costing
                                                                          equivalent of US
                                                                          $ 50,000 or more

In the case of Goods contracts the procurement methods followed was ICB for 2-3 large
contracts. The majority of the other contract packages were done under NCB
procurement method. There were also some shopping and direct purchases.

3. Implementation Assistance, Institutional Strengthening Services and Training
To address the problems of limited technical capacity in the urban sector the project had
kept provisions to hire consultancy services based on the requirement of the project and


                                             39

to train staff to develop and strengthen the institutional capacities of the project
management unit, project implementation units based in 8 dzongkhags, the collaborating
divisions of the department, the project allocated US $ 1,069,274; by 30 June 2006 the
project has incurred US $ 1, 01,185.

The technical assistance component of the project to provide advisory services was
contracted to an external firm viz. M/s Span Travers Morgan International Ltd. Under the
initial contract agreement the firm provided the long term Chief Technical Expert for 24
months, Dy. Chief Technical Expert for six months, Municipal Finance expert for 3
months and River Protection Expert for three months. After the mid term review of
March 2003 based on the advice of the review mission to have full time presence of the
TA at project site the term of the Chief Technical Expert was extended by another 12
months. In addition with savings from the contracted amount the implementing firm
provided additional engineering services from the region to assist the PMU in revising
the engineering designs of the water supply and treatment systems, urban infrastructures,
and riverbank protections etc. along with assistants who were conversant with AutoCAD
software.

The selection and employment of implementation consultants followed in the project was
Quality and cost based selection. Under the preview of that contract majority of the
consultants like Chief Technical Expert (CTE), Assistant Chief Technical Expert, Flood
River Protection Engineer, and Municipal Finance Expert were covered. All the
consultants were fielded and the works have been completed satisfactorily.

A Regional Financial consultant served for a year under direct contract to develop
accounting software for all the 8 Project account stations and the PMU based on
Financial Management Report requirement of the World Bank. This was a new financial
management system introduced and our project was one of the first victims to try it out.
Although, it may be useful to the World Bank this software was not accepted by the
Public Accounts Department of the Ministry of Finance because they had had their own
accounting software known as Budget and Accounts System (BAS). This confused the
Project Accountants, who in spite of several on the job trainings on the use of the WB
accounting software, was still not confident and comfortable on the use of the WB
accounting software, and was now further burdened with the RGoB BAS software. To
complicate the matter further, the software's were not compatible and the Project
Accountants had to submit the monthly accounts in both the formats. Thus most of the
time the submission of monthly accounts was delayed which in turn delayed the release
of fund. The ultimate sufferer was the contractor whose bills could never be paid on time.

At a later stage of the project a short term Urban Planner/Designer was also recruited
under single source procurement method for 6 months to prepare Master Plans of some of
the secondary towns in which infrastructure was being developed under the project. His
term was further extended by another 3 months.

In addition to the above cited international and regional consultancy inputs two local
consultant have been hired under short listed procurement method to prepare:



                                            40

    1.     Resettlement Action Plan and Assessment of implementation of the same plan
           and
    2.     To conduct Citizen Satisfaction Household Survey.

The total amount under the un-allocated amount as per the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) was US $ 1.08 million. This is distributed to meet increased inputs under
Technical Assistance and Urban Infrastructure components. Under Technical Assistance
unplanned inputs like Urban Planner under short-term contract, and short-term local
consultants to prepare Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) of people/households affected
through acquisition of land for urban infrastructure development and also to assess the
implementation of the RAP. In addition to use of unallocated amount for the above-
referred activities, the cost increase for TA input was met out of reduction of amounts
kept against other components. For instance allocation on the institutional support and
training was reduced by 50% because although fund was available, when it arrived at
approvals for trainings the agencies involved were very conservative. Thus the PMU
reallocated the budget to other components. Another problem the PMU faced was the
capacity to identify appropriate training institutes with relevant training offers. Thus
majority of the trainings outside the country were ad hoc trainings for which getting
clearance was a problem. Thus, it may be worthwhile to note that in future projects
detailing the types of trainings, institutes, and subjects maybe useful. Under the current
project misuse of training slots by irrelevant staff towards the closure of the project was
prominently noticeable by people who were aware of fund availability.

Implementation Arrangements. At the Appraisal stage it was decided that the
Department of Urban Development and Engineering Services of the Ministry of Works
and Human Settlement would execute the project through the establishment of a Project
Management Unit at Thimphu. This unit would be responsible for the overall
management of the Project, coordination of urban planning and development,
engineering design and contract procurement activities and establishment of monitoring
and evaluation system, and technical backstopping of the dzongkhags/towns. The project
manager was assisted by few Assistant Engineers, a Chief Technical Expert (CTE), a
project accountant, a Financial Consultant to introduce the financial reporting system
consistent with IDA requirements. In addition there were eight full time Project
Engineers to supervise and monitor contracts in each of the project dzongkhags.

Although the proposed implementation arrangement had foreseen the appointment of
deputy project manager, a senior finance officer, and a procurement specialist to assist
the Project Manager at the PMU, this never happened. In fact the PMU never had
opportunity to use the full time services of the Project Accountant, because the official
was never accommodated in the same place like the other PMU staff and the project
finance section always handled from a separate office.

Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers. The performance of all
consultants (international, regional and domestic) was satisfactory. The inputs were
fielded in accordance with the agreed schedule and based on the requirement of the



                                              41

executing agency. The implementation of the consulting services was awarded to a joint
venture firm comprising of one UK based and another New Delhi based firms. The
division of responsibility was that the UK based firm provided all three international
consultants input and the regional consultancy inputs were provided by the Indian firm.
The only obvious draw back noted is that the TORs do not reflect clearly whether the
consultants are required to submit assignment reports or not. Thus the project landed up
receiving a Chief Technical Expert and Assistant Chief Technical Expert who did not
submit any reports and when imposed to do so, often their tour reports were submitted as
assignment reports and sometime the Assistant Technical Expert submitted hand
scribbled notes.

The Indian firm was particularly helpful in expediting the redesign process of the water
supply and treatment systems at the early implementation stage of the project by
providing extra engineering and computer knowledgeable support. If left to the Chief
Technical Expert, the project would have failed because around that time the CTE left for
a months break, and disappeared for quite sometime without even bothering to inform the
project that he was ill and was unable to return on medical grounds. On complaint from
our side the Indian firm helped us to trace the where about of the CTE and also tried to
get a replacement CTE. But as the CVs of the proposed candidates were unacceptable to
us the previous CTE reappeared and produced a vague medical certificate from a hospital
in Bangkok indicating him fit to work in Bhutan. Thus we had no alternative but to take
him back rather than taking a new candidate who seemed younger and inexperienced.

The performance of the local contractors was in general satisfactory, with exceptions of
few contractors who did not employ sufficient number of supervisory staff, labors and
equipment. In distant towns contractors were not cooperating properly to provide an
acceptable standard of workmanship. In particular towns, which faced problems in
following the World Bank Procurement Guidelines, were the towns where the initial
Project Engineers were transferred through the mid way of the project.

Conditions and Covenants. The Government has tried to comply with covenants
required by the Credit Agreement. To execute the project through the Department of
Urban Development and Engineering Services in conformity with the appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, urban development and environmental practices.

Disbursement. A total of US$ 12,135,205 was disbursed, equivalent to 98% of the total
project cost of 12.360 million US$ till 30 June 2006.

Environmental Impact. The environmental impact of the project has been positive. The
results of the project has improved the condition of the towns with better planned streets,
provision of drains on the roadside as well as storm water, parking areas and pedestrian
safety has reduced traffic congestion. The storm water drains has reduced the threats
from flooding and the river training works in three towns has created attractive walkways
(Paro) which are much appreciated by the public. In addition it has also protected the
towns from the threat of flooding (Bumthang, Trongsa and Paro). The landfill sites
developed under the project have helped to take care of the garbage. In additions



                                            42

landscaping and beautifications of the town centers in some of the towns has created
some space for relaxation for the children and elderly citizen of the town.

Conclusions and recommendations. The Urban Development Project was completed
within the revised closing date of 30 June 2006. The project has brought about improved
urban environment to 10 secondary towns in 8 dzongkhags with introduction of potable
water supply systems, solid waste landfill sites, 5 newly planned towns with better
internal roads, drainage system, town plazas, parking and market sheds to enhance
economic activities, footpaths to facilitate school going children etc. In the reaming 5
towns too infill organized developments were carried out.

Lessons Learnt. Some of the challenges/difficulties (lessons learnt) the Project
Management Unit encountered in the implementation of the goods procurement methods
in particular are:
i.    Interpreting the procurement guidelines is difficult as they are broad and not very
      clear.
ii.   During early stages of procurement (goods) due to communication difficulties
      implementing ICB procurement method was inconvenient. In two cases of ICB for
      procurement of water meter and Plumbing Equipment, we landed up having to
      disqualify the international participant as their bids and samples were not received
      on time.
iii.  From 2000-2005 the project has carried out more than 25 numbers of NCBs.
      Although the majority of the goods were supplied, to our satisfaction, the project
      has faced situations in having to accept machineries like 8 TATA Trucks mounted
      with Septic Tank-De-sludging Equipment which were not acceptable level and did
      not have proper back up maintenance service facilities.
iv.   After the goods were distributed to the dzongkhag the storage of the same like
      water meters, plumbing tools, etc were poor and often not to acceptable levels.
v.    The goods supplied, be it vehicles, machineries, water testing instruments,
      plumbing tools, cameras both digital and still, survey instruments, Blue print
      machines and water meters etc once handed over to the Project Implementation
      Units in 8 dzongkhag were not used to its best and proper capacity.
vi.   Another lesson clearly spelt out was that planning of towns should be done before
      infrastructure development proposals are finalized and implementation commenced
      rather than the other way round which was happening in the earlier stage of the
      project.
vii. Another disadvantage and unique situation the project faced was the donor agency
      after effecting the project implementation in May 2000 was still bringing technical
      expertise in 2001 under its own resources to discuss town planning issues, prioritize
      stakeholder demands, draw up shopping list of needs for the towns selected to be
      funded by the project. This was in a way in contradiction to the Project
      Implementation Plans drawn up during feasibility study and appraisal stage of the
      project.
viii. Another draw back the project encountered was the frequent changes of staff
      backstopping the project from the donor side. As well as transfers of staff from the
      Government side too.



                                            43

Further, additional lessons learnt after the implementation of the 5 year urban
development project covering 10 secondary towns and 8 dzongkhags are listed below:
i.    The institutional arrangement of the project should be given a lot of thought and
      consideration to avoid present implementation difficulties like not getting full
      cooperation from the dzongkhags to whom the Project Engineer designate is
      answerable, often seem to be engaged in other routine engineering works of the
      dzongkhag thus leading to poor quality and poor interpretation of designs of the
      works not being executed results.
ii.   Drawings are not always being read or correctly followed, resulting in unnecessary
      errors requiring rectification and delays to the contracts. As far as possible the
      Project Engineers and/or contractors should seek clarifications if they are unsure of
      the details.
iii.  Proper records are not always being maintained. This includes in some cases
      pipeline testing, concrete test cubes and other material testing not being undertaken;
      monthly management meetings are not always held regularly and/or not recorded in
      writing; site diaries and other site records are not being maintained; and instructions
      not always provided in writing.
iv.   Some Project Engineers are not available to visit site regularly due to other
      dzongkhag responsibilities. This often results in works being undertaken or covered
      up by the contractor without prior approval from the Project Engineer.
v.    Contractors are not always requesting prior approval and/or the Project Engineer is
      not always approving in writing the Works prior to covering up. This results in
      works being covered up which do not comply with the drawings or materials, which
      do not meet the specifications being used and subsequently covered up e.g. road
      pavement layers.
vi.   There is still some continuing reliance on the contractor to undertake the Works in
      accordance with the Contract and accepting what has been done at face value.
      Clearly the contractors have a responsibility for this however the quality of
      workmanship varies depending on the contractor and his supervision staff. Project
      Engineers in general need to take more responsibility towards supervising and
      approving in writing construction activities and greater emphasis must be placed on
      obtaining prior approval in writing to covering up the Works.
vii. The Conditions of Contract clearly state the requirements for Insurances to be
      provided by the contractor. In all towns cases have occurred where insurances have
      not been provided; have lapsed and not renewed; or do not meet the contract
      requirements. This topic was reviewed during a workshop held in Thimphu and the
      necessity for the contractors to provide the required insurances clearly emphasized
      with the Project Engineers.
viii. The Project Engineers are working in very difficult circumstances supervising
      several contracts at the same time and in several cases supervising contracts, which
      are, the largest ever implemented at dzongkhag level. As detailed above there are
      clearly a number of continuing problems which need to be addressed but are
      improving all the time. As well as supervising a large number of contracts at the
      same time they also have varying amounts of experience and backgrounds.
      However it must be emphasized that in general they are doing a very good job and



                                              44

      should receive a large amount of credit for the progress of the Project. There are
      also a number of factors which affect their ability to perform their contract
      supervision duties like - some of them were not full-time on the World Bank
      Project and are assigned other duties in the dzongkhag. Particularly with respect to
      the larger contracts e.g. water supplies and new town development works it is
      absolutely essential that Project Engineers are assigned full-time on-site in order to
      improve the site supervision and quality of workmanship.
ix.   Some of the Project Engineers have very limited experience and site supervision
      (particularly in Trashiyangtse where the Project Engineer is a new graduate) and in
      all cases these are the largest contracts that they have supervised. As such they
      require to varying degrees additional support. A result of the Project Engineers
      having limited experience on contract administration of this nature is that they lack
      a certain amount of confidence in dealing with the contractors. If their experience
      and knowledge of contract requirements is improved then they will be in a better
      position to be more assertive in the day-to-day management of the contract and
      dealing with the contractors.
x.    In some cases the Project Engineers received limited support from other members
      of the Dzongkhag Engineering Cell.
xi.   Vehicles and various items of office equipment have been provided by the Project
      primarily to support the Project Engineers during the course of the Project. In
      several cases the vehicles in particular are not always available to the Project
      Engineer for Project duties.
xii. In Zhemgang and Trashiyangtse Dzongkhags the Project Engineers are required to
      supervise contracts in two separate towns about one-hour drive apart. In the case of
      Zhemgang an additional engineer was assigned to Tingtibi but he had other
      contracts to supervise resulting in him only being able to spend around 20% of his
      time on Project work in Tingtibi. This further emphasizes the need for the necessary
      support in terms of manpower and equipment to be provided to the Project
      Engineers, particularly in these two dzongkhags.
xiii. Office space is clearly a limiting factor in all dzongkhags. For major works such as
      in Bumthang and Wangdue, suitable office space should be provided on-site
      (probably by the contractor) in order that the Project Engineers can be as close to
      the works as possible and retain all the necessary files and documentation on site. It
      should be noted that in the case of the Project Engineer in Rangjung he was using
      the veranda of his house as an office and maintaining the contract files and
      computer in that location for quite sometime.
xiv. Contractors very often most of the time very limited knowledge of the Conditions
      of Contract and Specifications resulting in poor interpretation of the contract
      requirements in respect of materials and workmanship and other contractual
      matters.
xv. Relatively inexperienced or non-technical supervisory staffs are often employed to
      supervise contracts on behalf of the contractor.
xvi. Construction programs produced at the start of the contract are very poor and
      provide insufficient detail to adequately monitor construction progress.
xvii. Clearly contracting is a business and the contractor must ultimately make a profit to
      remain in business. However in many cases they appear to have little knowledge of



                                             45

       the construction requirements and often provide poor support and management
       backup to the site.
xviii. There are many cases where construction planning was very poor and the resultant
       construction scheduling never completed or achieved in as planned. The contractors
       see the construction process as very simplistic. This in itself has resulted in many
       delays to contracts due to slow and inadequate start-up activities.
xix. There is often an attitude that the Employer are/or Project Engineer will accept
       works which are of an inferior quality and rectification works need only be
       undertaken as and when requested. In these cases the contractors do not seem to
       take into account the resulting time and cost implications of the unnecessary
       remedial and rectification works that they have to undertake at their own cost.
xx. Project coverage should as far as possible be restricted to smaller area consisting of
      two or three towns which are located near to each other. So that travel is
      convenient, short and no problems are faced during the monsoon or winter.
xxi. During project appraisal the capacity of the implementing staff should be
      ascertained properly so that bottlenecks at implementation are avoided.

Besides, the general lessons learnt outlined above some town specific contributions from
the towns/dzongkhags are outlined below as follows:

1.    RANGJUNG
A.    Technical:
i.     Rangjung being one distant project town, regular technical backstopping was not
       available to the Project Implementation Unit.
ii.    Seeking MLTC approvals over the approval of DLTC for additional/deviation of
      works was felt in appropriate because, most of the times at site, the forecasted
      additional works are already carried out based on the approval of DLTC, later when
      Project Engineers seek their deviation/variation approvals from the PMU the case
      gets referred to MLTC for further discussion and the MLTC makes the PEs justify
      the variation/deviations. Besides, occasionally, MLTC has reservations over DLTC
      decisions and controversies are created.

B.    Financial:
i.     There were no prompt actions on the timely release of the fund from the
       government.      Every request took months and months thereby leading the
       contractors to lodge complaints and interest claims on delayed payments. This lead
       to constant cash flow crunches and insufficient money available with the contractor
       which were main factors for delayed completion of the project within given
       contract period, sub standard quality of the work and poor progress of the contract.
ii.    If possible, it would be very convenient if the establishment of project office could
       be included in the budget of the funding agency. It has not been possible to justify
       to the Ministry of Finance who denied approval for rental charges and budget for
       construction of municipal office at Rangjung because programs and activities
       covered under the project was not reflected in the planned outlay of the 9 Five Plan.
       Therefore, to enable setting up of an office for the project engineer, budget should
       be included in the funding plan. Some similar projects funded by the same donor



                                             46

     agency in the Education Sector, had house rent for School Planning and Building
     Division engineers included in the contract packages. Therefore as all engineers are
     serving for the same Government and are re performing similar site supervision
     works, if possible, Engineers of the Urban Development Project too should be
     given similar incentives.

C. Administrative:
i.   The control of the project engineer during the execution of the projects is not clear.
     Although, it is verbally appraised that the project engineer is to work under the
     administrative control of the dzongkhag and the District Engineer, equal control
     and direct dealing was made with the project engineer. Sometimes, it was noted
     that letters are dispatched directly to the project engineer and without even copies to
     the Management of the dzongkhag.
ii.  Likewise, if we take an example for Rangjung, the contractor was denying
     accepting advices from the visiting Engineers and Project Manager from the PMU
     of Department of Urban Development and Engineering Services because the
     contract was signed with the dzongkhag and not with the department and he felt
     that he was not answerable to the department. On the other hand, the dzongkhag
     (particularly Engineering Sector) have to respect both the department as well as the
     dzongkhag and uphold the advices from the center too.
iii. Such projects should be either executed centrally or given full responsibility to the
     dzongkhag like the SPBD of the Department of Education under the same funding
     agency, which is controlled centrally starting form release of salary for project
     engineers, payments for contractors, and verification of bills etc.

2.     WANGDUE
The Urban Development Project, funded by the World Bank, covering the secondary
towns of Bhutan and spanning over a period of five years, has finally come to an end
after successful execution. The objectives of the Royal Government to improve the
urban conditions in the country have been achieved to a great extent. As Wangdue
Dzongkhag has also greatly benefited from the project, the general public and the
residents of Wangdue are very content and remain ever grateful to the World Bank and
the Royal Government of Bhutan in striving to improve the urban infrastructure in the
country and thereby, the living conditions of the people.

Over the period of last five important years of the project implementation 2000-2005, as
Wangdue Dzongkhag is one of the project beneficiaries, this dzongkhag has had the
opportunity to gain some very insightful experiences, which the dzongkhag would like to
share with the Royal Government and our esteemed donor agency who has funded the
project and contributed immensely to the success of the project.

Our views and experiences are summarized in three categories as follows:

A.     Planning of the Project: Although, over the last five years of the project period,
the DUDES, MWHS, as the central technical agency in the country, has been very
helpful and has always provided the technical backstopping to the dzongkhags, right



                                              47

from the project inception stage. But keeping in mind the advices of the Hon'ble
Zhabtog Lyonpo by a circular during 2004, stating that for any project the planning stage
or the initial stage is very important and goes on to become the determining factor for the
success of the project. In this regards, we feel that, out of the five years of the total
project period, at least the first two years should concentrate on project planning, project
preparatory studies, feasibility studies, designing of the works, obtaining various
clearances from MoA, NEC, DoR and the Public/stakeholders etc. The remaining three
years would be more than adequate for carrying out the actual implementation at the
field. Having mentioned that, the project has been carried out well and has come to end
successfully despite few minor setbacks. The DUDES and the dzongkhags have worked
in close consultation and thus, all setbacks in particular technical issues were sorted out
and the project completed satisfactorily.

B.      Financial Aspect (payment procedure): Although the implementation part of
the project was very successful without many bottlenecks, we feel that the payment
systems could have been sorted out right at the beginning of the project. There were
numerous instances here in Wangdue, when we could not pay the contractors on time for
the works they had carried out. Even for the other nine towns, we learnt that the
payments could not be made in time and the contractors have had to suffer because of the
late payments. We tried to find out where the fault actually lied but we were unable to
trace that either.

On the contrary, we are very grateful that the contractors who, despite facing financial
problems due to late payments, did not let the works suffer. As Wangdue is one of the
project beneficiaries, and in order that such discrepancies do not repeat in future projects
again, we feel that the Ministry of Finance should foresee that such problems do not
repeat in future and sort out the mode of payment right at the beginning of the project.

C. Technical Aspect: The Project Implementation, primarily at the field, has been quite
successful, as we did not encounter any problems such as quality of works, performance
of the built-works etc. However, as mentioned under the "Planning of the project", the
DUDES should have done the feasibility studies and proper designs as per the actual site
conditions as the central technical agency. There were few minor cases when the initial
designs had to be cancelled and replaced with new designs at the very late stage. Other
than these minor instances, the technical support received from the DUDES during the
implementation stage was very beneficial as the dzongkhag lacked adequate
capacity/manpower to carry out quality supervision.

After the last five years of urban development project in Bhutan and Wangdue being one
of the project beneficiaries, we would like to thank the World Bank and the Royal
Government of Bhutan for the significant development benefits that we received in terms
of urban infrastructure that will greatly boost the local economy and the living conditions
of the people in the ten project towns. Above all, the familiarity with the project
implementation procedures (contract management practices) and the experiences gained
by working with such an esteemed development partner has enhanced our knowledge and
know-how to work with international donor agencies in future too.



                                              48

3.     ZHEMGANG & TINGTIBI
i.   The Department of Urban Development & Engineering Services, considering the
     acute shortage of technical manpower in the dzongkhag, where each technical
     personnel is mandated to complete the assigned job responsibility, had generously
     considered to post a project engineer specifically to supervise the project worth
     more than Nu. 35.00 million, funded through World Bank. Despite, such provision,
     the project engineer with no other assistant and having to cover two towns located
     apart with the distance of about 33 km has faced numerous difficulties in providing
     proper monitoring coverage to the two towns simultaneously under the same
     funding.
ii.  The Project Management Unit at times, generously assisted the project personnel in
     delivering the technical skills, where required, especially during tendering and
     evaluation. This created duel system of understanding and opportunity in sharing
     skills among the coordinators and the project supervisors.
iii. The project at its closing has the basic hardware facilities like water supply with
     better intake and treatment system, augmented pipe networks, streetlight, proper
     waste disposal site including transport facilities, sludge removal, market shed,
     public toilet, improvement of urban roads, housing facility for operators, footpath,
     drainage, mobility for staff, computers with accessories, plumbing tools, water
     meters, spares and testing kits in place. These amenities and the investments were
     made through the World Bank. The manual data entry on water billing is now
     enhanced with the provision of both hard and software facility like computers and
     printers and billing software. Equally, the sustainability of urban amenities has
     commenced, with the appointment of professional manpower.              The capacity
     building through in-country training on operation & maintenance and billing
     software has enlightened the professionals in gearing-up their skills in their
     respective fields.
iv.  The dream has come true to some extend for the residents of Tingtibi and
     Zhemgang. Yet the expectation of the public in general is lot more, with gaps still
     to be filled. The towns which are new in nature still has room for numerous
     additional activities waiting for funding like new bus terminal, truck parking, site
     development works viz. retaining wall with drainage, access/approach roads and
     new water piping network with storage facilities to name few.          Despite such
     requirements already in queue, we are limited as demands are un-limited, in case
     another investment project commences. We expect similar arrangement and even
     more support.

4.     JAKAR
Majority of the problems encountered during project implementation were mainly in
financial disbursement, as the dzongkhag was never receiving the required budgets in
time, despite many correspondences. As a result of late payment, the Contractors had
misunderstanding with the Project Engineer and the Employer many times in all the
contracts. Additional lessons learnt through the implementation of this investment project
were:




                                           49

i.   Clearly defined roles/responsibilities of the dzongkhag and central department
     need to be outlined.
ii.  Often the designs done by the central dept (PMU) has a lot of missing items and
     links at the implementation level, the PE & the contractor has problems
     understanding some the designs and to get clarification from the head office over
     telephone often leads to a lot of misunderstanding. Due to distance, to take the
     problem for clarification to Head Office leads to time and resource losses.
iii. The PE and the contractor faces problems, as the contract document is too
     voluminous and time consuming to read, thus all problems are created.
iv.  The project team also feels that the project completion time given should be
     realistic, rather then enforcing the point that the project is time bound for 5 years
     has to complete the contract before project closing date and give the contractor an
     unrealistic time to complete the contract. In other words planning, designing and
     estimating of larger contracts should definitely be done at the initial phase of the
     project rather than being ambitious and rushing at the closure of the project and
     tender out huge investment projects.
v.   The Government while drawing up the Development Credit Agreement with the
     World Bank should keep in mind unforeseen problems like sub-soil strata, NEC
     clearance, coordination and cooperation problems with other line agencies rather
     than taking the stand of having a perfect or best condition.
vi.  Issues like land acquisition for the infrastructure development works should be
     completed before the tender processes, other options of land pooling should also be
     considered as far as possible.
vii. As the dzongkhag has been facing a lot of timely fund disbursement problems,
     which is also reflected above, the dzongkhag suggests that rather than
      replenishment system presently followed, reimbursement system should also be
      looked as other options.
viii. All project provided facilities like office equipment, vehicle, machineries, and other
      important tools/plants should be handed over to the PE rather than the Dzongkhag
      Administration because often project related facilities like vehicles etc. are most of
     the time used for other purposes.
ix.  As the project engineer is often municipal site bound often he is deprived of
     opportunities to travel and claim, TA, DA and mileage etc thus he should be given
     some project allowance as incentive.
x.   The PE and the municipal engineer should have separate roles and responsibilities.
     The present practice of burdening the PE with the municipal engineer role should
     be discouraged and discontinued so that the PE can focus and devote his time only
     for the project works.
xi.  The PE should be delegated some authority to change and adjust designs as per site
     requirement.
xii. If possible projects of such nature with large contracts should be de-linked from the
      dzongkhag administration. So that the PE designate is not involved in dzongkhag
      protocol activities.
xiii. The PE should have a separate office to be able to attend to full time supervision of
     the works.
xiv. The line of communication between PE, DE, and the central Department should be



                                              50

      clearly outlined to avoid any misunderstandings between the centre and dzongkhag.
xv. Finally, the Dzongkhag Administration would like to thank the World Bank and the
      Department of Urban Development and Engineering Services for providing office
      equipment, vehicle, machineries and other important tools, plants and imparting
      training to the Project staff.

5.      TRASHIYANGTSE and DUKSUM
i.    If possible the central work should be supervised by the central agency by deputing
      engineers on deputation since the Dzongkhag Engineers cannot devote full time on
      such projects.
ii.   Usually the fund releases for the project is very late leading to delay in the
      completion of the works
iii.  Certain threshold should be made for the Dzongkhag regarding the Technical
      Sanction amount, award of work, and approval for deviation/additional items.
iv.  In some cases the Project Engineer who had been given training in the work related
     to project procedures and formalities are transferred before the completion of the
     project. Often the new engineer who takes over the project, encounters lots of
      problems, such lapses often leads to the hindrance of the project progress because
      the new Engineer has to be reacquainted with the project components, procedures
      and formalities. Thus as far as possible transfer of the Project Engineer during mid
      way of the project should be avoided.
v.    One of the most important part of the of the project before its actual implementation
      should be that the Project Engineers be given sufficient trainings related to the
      various phases of the Project such as technical aspects, contract administration,
      contract management and other special features of the project. The trainings should
      be given by the expertise in that particular field.
vi.   During the implementation of the project, it will be very helpful and useful if the
      consultant or experts could visit the project site frequently. Otherwise, if things go
      wrong after the construction is completed it is very late and difficult to rectify.

6.      PARO
Activities taken up in Paro by the World Bank Project are:
i.    Road widening in town.
ii.   Bondey water supply
iii.  River Bank Protection ­ Phase I, II, V
iv.   Improvement of Vegetable market.
v.    Up-gradation of pumps
vi.   Construction of Secondary Road
vii. Construction of By-pass-road
viii. Construction of Water Distribution System
ix.   Construction of Street lights
x.    Construction of Town Plaza
xi.   Construction of public toilet
xii. Construction of Water meter chambers
Socio-economic Impact: All the above activities have been completed fully and are in
use/operation. Since the completion of the urban infrastructures many new constructions



                                             51

have been completed and Paro is booming with commencement of new business
enterprises. Apart from the new business enterprises operated from 68 old houses on
phase I plots, 68, three storied buildings have been completed by the plot owners and 66
of these buildings ground floors are occupied by additional business enterprises (shops).
In all one hundred and sixty four plots were allotted excluding the sixty-eight old plots of
Phase I. The urban centre also receives adequate water supply, has new street light
facility and waste collection facility. Construction of the houses has eased the housing
problem of the Government, and Corporate employees to some extent. The house rent
seems to be high for low-income group. Rents for a two bed roomed flat ranges from
Nu. 3500 to Nu 4000 per month. The local people around the town are benefiting from
the improved/enlarged and organized vegetable market area.

The urban development project has also increased the human and financial resource
requirement to maintain the urban infrastructures.             Presently, the Dzongkhag
Administration is maintaining these infrastructures with bare minimum manpower and
finance. There is also need for institutional development of the Municipality to manage
the social and developmental issues related to urban centre.

Environment Impact: As is the nature associated with development, waste generation in
Tshongdue has increased manifold since 2004. The quantity of waste disposed in 2004
was 8 cubic meters against 64 cubic meters in 2006. While the quantity of solid waste
increased day by bay, the Dzongkhag Administration is grappling with the issue of
finding a landfill site. Initially two landfill sites were identified in 2003 but were
abandoned due to land acquisition problems. The waste is still dumped in the open area
and burnt above the Municipal Office. This practice is causing visual and air pollution.
The Dzongkhag Administration has identified a site at Yabjee (17KM) on the Paro ­
Thimphu highway. Clearances from concerned agencies like the Department of Forest
and National Environmental Commission are being sought to start the waste disposal
project. Since the World Bank Project is winded by June 30, 2006, the waste disposal
site will be included in the 10th Plan Activities.

7.      TRONGSA
i.    Office establishment and recruitment of required staff should to be identified before
      the actual start of the project. So as to minimize the project hindrance.
ii.   Minimum requirement of staff should to be identified and recruitment depending on
      the volume of the proposed project should be done, as we have experienced that a
      single project engineer cannot tackle with many field activities apart from his daily
      administrative and other related works.
iii.  Design, drawings and estimates should be prepared based upon the actual site
      conditions and considering the topographic conditions of the land varying form
      place to place, so as to minimize the deviations during the actual implementation.
iv.   Some mechanism is required to be developed for financial disbursement, as the
      Dzongkhag never received budget release in time to execute and complete the work
      on the specified time period.




                                              52

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire, July 2 - 23, 1998
Aide Memoire, February 14 - 20, 1999
Aide Memoire, May 10 - 18, 1999
Aide Memoire, June 14 - 21, 1999
Aide Memoire, April 21, 2000
Aide Memoire, April 9 - 21, 2001
Aide Memoire, December 7 - 16, 2001
Aide Memoire, January 30 - February 4, 2001
Aide Memoire, May 24 - June 4, 2002
Aide Memoire, March 5 - 15, 2003
Aide Memoire, October 15 - 28, 2003
Aide Memoire, April 18 - May 1, 2004
Aide Memoire, September 26 - October 9, 2004
Aide Memoire, April 5 - 22, 2005
Aide Memoire, October 5 - 20, 2005
Excel Sheets prepared for Appraisal Economic Analysis
The Kuensel, January 10, 2007
Other Supporting Documents from RGoB
Preparation Study Volume I Main Report - Draft Final Report; August 1999
Preparation Study Volume III on Urban Planning - Final Report; August 1999
Project Appraisal Document: Bhutan Urban Development Project, November 23, 1999
World Bank (2006), Water, Electricity and the Poor. Who Benefits from Utility Subsidies?




                                              53

