E-284
BHUT.N URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
July 1999
Urban Development and Housina Division- Ministry of Communications
With assistance from the National Environment Commission






Table of Contents
Executive Summarv and Recommendations
1. Introduction
II. Overvie'.v ot Goals and Frame. ork t'or Environmental M'anasgement
A. General
B.  Summarv of EnvironrIeMntal Assessment Process
C.  Existin2 Svstem ofPoiicv. Proyram and Project Fornulation
D.  Inclusion of Sectoral E.'. into the Planning Process
III. Environmental Conditions o . ?7ojeC. Towx-ns
AX.  Environmental Hig-nih-:s
,    Environmental P7orlides . ! o 3" n
C.  Common E nv ironmen:a. 'issues
IV. National Strategies and Polic:-s -or The Lrban Sector
A. Back!ground
B. Objec.ives for Human S7ttlements of the SF'Y'P
C. Strategies for Humarn Settlements of the SFYP
D. Speciric Concems o-RC-oB Related to the Urban Sector
E. Sectoral Policies
V  Actions and Impro vements Proposed by the Project towards the Promotion
of Environmental Manage,ne-t in the Project Towns
1. Management of WVater Resources
2. Improvement in W'ater Supply Quality
i.  Improvements'in Sanitation
Drainage Improvements
5.   River Erosion Protection
6.  Improved Solid Waste Management and Disposal
Effective Land Use Planning and Management
S.   Manaving Transportation Needs
9.   Managing Industriai Developments
10. Conserving HistorncaL Cultural Heritage
-v. Environmental Mlanagement Plan



I



Executive Summary and Recommendations
Overview of Bhutan's Achievement in Environmental Mlanagement
The overail philosophv of:-.e Rovai Governrnent of Bhutan (RGoB)
towvards sustainable develoomen: and the environment, is detailed in the
*National Environmentai Strategy:. NEC !99S'. Brietlv. the government has
stated in the strongest oossible ze--s. :hat protecting the natural environment.
and ensuring that development ac::.ities undertak-en in the Kingdom must be
done in a sustainable and enviro=mentailv sensitive manner. The RGoB places
a high level of importance on protec:ing Bhutan's nch natural heritage Cor future
generations.
For this purpose :he RGoB. :hrough the National Environment
Commission (NEC). '.as .ssued   :9 ' draft EA Zuidelines. Subsecuerntiv.
NEC undertooK a major revision o.:h:e environmental assessment t EA) orocess
and issued a number ot  rteevant d mco nents as followvs: (a) Sectoral Guidelines
for: Foreszrn.  ilininz and Mlinera. ?7ccessing. New and Existinm InuiL ses.
Hydropower. T.ansmission Lines.      avs and Roads, andi Stratezic
Environmental Assessments (NEC :999 a). b):  lnstitutionaiiz:nZ and
Stren2theniniz oft'he Environmentai Assessment Process in Bhutan (N'EC 1999
b). Reference Document: (c) Ambient Discharue Standards and Environrmental
Sampiinr Nlanual (NEC '1999c): and id) Environmental Assessment P.ocess
Manual (N\EC 1999d). These documents and guidelines overn the EA process.
and until the Draft Environmental Assessment Act (1997) is formally approved
bv RGoB. all development and corstnoc-.on activities have to comlv wvith the
Environmental Compliance NotiE ection No. NEC, EAX98-99 655 dated 's
Febnrarv 1999 issued by the Chair-.an o t'the NEC.
Purpose of the Sectoral Environmental Assessment
The World Bank requires a comprehensive overviewv of the
environmental issues regardinz urbanization. in addition to the narrower
auestion of the impac:s which spec.;-ic investments might have. This Sectoral
Environmental Assessment is a response to these concems. It covers the
foilowing requirements:
* to compile environmental profiles of the ten towns in the project
*  to carrv out initial screenin'g of the projects to determine whether any
detailed environmental assessment (EA) will be required
*  to identifv towns wvith problems requirng EAs on speciiic projects
to propose standard mitigation and mitigation measures that will be required
for project components where no EA is required



*  to prepare an Environmentai NIAlnagement Plan (EMIP) Cor the planning,
design. construction and opera.ion of urban infrastructure
* to identify institutional strenmz:h,ening opportunities at the sectorai level for
the improvement of enviro=nme Tal assessment and manazgement
*  to ensure compliance wvith Bht_an's institutional and legal framexvork' for
environmental manazement w'ie satisftinz World Bankl EA requirements.
Procedure for Carrving out the Secroral Environmental Assessment
The Sec.oral Environmentai Assessment wvas carmed out bv a team
consistin- ot members of the Lra  Development and Housing Division
(Miinistrv of Communications). :he National Environment Commission. and
assisted bv the Worid Bank. It da.s om the wvork done by the !EC on
Environmental Assessment Guid-:-e>ns andi Insttutional Si:rengtheninn. -he
Bank's Environmental Assessmenr Cuidelines. and the Project Feasibility
Studies oroduced b% ihe Consuia-a-:s.
Kev Environmental Issues
The project towns are sma': .vi th poouiations ranging from 3'() to 5.000.
Although they do not have a hi_.h :-'ei ot urban services. the geographic setting
together wvith the low densitv ort eveootment and the oast slow oace of -rowth
of urban areas have keot environrnental problems to a relatively low level. The
to%vns share common environmentai :ssues which are summarized below:
*  Water resources are abundant. but high turbidirv and bactenoioaicai
contamination duringz the monsoon from surtace water sources ana
occasional landsildes are ser-.ous oroblems for part of the year
*  Water qualitv deterioration from bacteriological contamination is prevalent
in the distribution netvorkl due to leakage and improper laying of pipes.
*  Sanitation disposal facilities ar_ inadequate resulting in septic tank
overflows. Mlanv househoids s,ili use pit latrines which are often improperlv
located or constructed
*  Drainage svstems are inadequate and improperiv designed. The small
number of household in these towns discharge their ''eray" wastewater
(kitchen and washing wastewater) directlv into open drains, and into the
main water bodies.
*  In some tow ns with iaruer nvers. there is increasing erosion along the river
banks. threatenim. stability ofthe slopes above.
ii



*  Solid waste marnaement and disposal Is inadequate, wvith manv towns
disposing2 waste informally or mi controiled dumpsites. The collection and
disposal of household garbage is a persistent problem of citv corporations
and Dzon-k.ha2s. The RGoB h;s rec-ntly banned the use of plastic carry
bags to avoid the accumulation of non-dezradable products.
*  Cultural and heritage sites are beinu -hre-aened by: unplanned developments
and incompatible Land uses te.L. hotels being built wvithin close proximity to
national and reliious monurne2s: poor and unsafe construction of houses in
the immediate vicnitry of these imnoonant monuments).
*  Probiem of stray animals in to%k.s
*  Lackl of orooer pianning  r.o cons;r'c:ion codes, lacl; of consistency in
planning rc!uiatuons)
e  Sociai probiems... increasi-z ;ases or theft. robber.. juvenile
deiinquencv. drnus. etc.
*  Lack of oroDer storm drainage .ac.lt:tes: and
*  Lack of parks and recreational :ac:iities
Recommended Actions
With regards to the mitigation and moniroring of generic environmental
issues across the ten oroject towns. .he folloving measures have been
recommended and are summarized as foilowvs:
*  Water resources survevs are called for in certain areas and an improved
svstem for monitonng them is 7ecommended to address the problems during
the monsoon period. Adequate treatment of water will be necessarv to
ensure an acceptable quality of vater supplv
W ater quality deterioration should be addressed with improvements in the
distnrct network svstem. such as replacing defective pipes and connections.
improving of skills in pipelaving: better materials; more quality control
during construction. more reguiar and frequent maintenance; and, civic
education to prevent the deterioration of system
* Due to the lack of land titles. most households are reluctant to invest on
permanent sanitation facilities. )MIany have pit latrines which are improperly
constructed on informal land. and moreover, are not properly maintained;
they will be assisted to build proper ventilated improved pit latrines. Under
the project. it is also proposed to provide. for households with septic tanks,
llt



desludizinm and disposal faciliities. and pav-and-use toilets in the town
centers. All ne.v housing wxill be required to install proper septic tanks or
latrines, while existing, buildings will be required by bvlawv to upgrade or
replace anv defective septic ranrks.
None of the tow ns has a compierelv coherent main drainage system and few
have even a proper master or outline drainage plan. In cases where such a
plan is missing, it is a first prioriry to prepare one. and to follow it durl.r
construction of the main drainagee system. Lac}; of maintenance of drains has
also been hidhlidhted. Even xhe- the main draina2e is designed and buiit.
there may remain a problem of the incoherence and poor design and
construction of local draina2e. More attention needs to be paid bv the
communitv to the importance :o ernsurinn  that the local drains are kept -ean.
This x'ill be achieved through -the public awxareness program and by maakin
households responsible Cor ;he :ocai drains :n their nei-hborhood.
Soiid waste manaement and coiil.ccion improvement requires training arda
motivation of staff and public _>ucation. Due to iong distances orfdisposal
sites from the towns. the ecu:prment. operat:on and maintenance o t.he
transport tleet will have to be addr essedi. Solid waste disposal sites
eV ervwhere nee-d imorovements and this .xvill require training of staff in
standard procedures tor identirtcarion- preparation and management of these
sites. Similarly. landtlil ecuipment i excavators,pavloaders) are verv
expensive relative to the scale of -he size of the towvn and the garbage
zenerated. Economies of scale are difficuit to realize ziven the distances
between towns. and difficuit te-ain. To reduce cost. it is important to
promote garbage separation ancd rec-clingy throuh an active public education
campaign.
*  Conservation of significant herita2e sites such as dzonLs will recuire
inc.eased attention to proper land use ahd zoning regulation. and their
entorcement.
*  Where rivers are eroding their banks in some oftthe project towns, erosion
control and protection measures will be built to arrest the erosion.
Institutional Issues and Implementation
On the whole, the institutional and legTal framework for effective
environmental manazement is already in place in Bhutan. The project will
strengthen this process at the national level by supporting efforts bv the National
Environmental Commission (NEC) to develop environmental guidelines for the
urban sector including codes of practice which shall be used for design.
construction and operation ofthe urban infrastructure facilities. In addition.
training and public education programs need to be developed and implemented
at the dzongkha, level. The RGoB is also planning to create a local committee
iv



at the dzongkhag level to address the environmental issues and to ensure that the
relevant auidelines and environmental codes of best practice are implemented.
Environmental Mlanagement Plan (ENIP)
.n E.MP, sertinz out the kev environmental mitniation and monitoring
actions and the responsibilities thereror has been prepared and will be used to
'uide the implementation and operarion of the project investments.
v



I



I. Introduction
The World Bank under its applicable Operational Policv (OP 4.01)
requires a comprehensive overvie'.v of the environmental issues reg2arding
urbanization. in addition to the nai-roxer question of the impacts which sDecinc
investments might have. This Seczorai Environmental Assessment is a-response
to this concem. it covers the Collowv:ng requirements:
*  to compile environmental proriles of the ten towns in the project
*  to carrv out initial screening of' the projects to dete-mine w -hether an
environmental assessment (EA) wvill be required
*  to identif, to%ns with probiem.s reœuinng EAs on specitic projects
*  to oropose standard mitigat:on, cLi mroniLonng measures that w iil be r-Lired
tor project components wvhe.re -. E'A is required
•  to ?re?are an Environmentai Niaae-nent Plan  EMNP) "or the piannin r.
design. construction and opera=or. or urran infrastructre-
-  tO identirv institutional strenrgthening opportunities at the sectoral Leve; 'or
the improvement of environmrrienal assessment and manag_ement
*  to ensure compliance with Bhurrn's institutional and legal framework for
environmentli manazement whi-le satisf' inr2 World Bank EA requirements.
The Sectoral Environmental Assessment provides a discussion of the
overall conrext and fraxnexvork of the environmental assessment process in
Bhutan. This is followed'bv an anaisis of the environrnental problems faced
by the ten towns, presented in 'two parts: (a) brief profiles of the environmental
problems are provided town by tow^n. looking in each case only at the main
problems of each town. but which overall indicates which problems are common
to many of the tow-ns: and (b) the environmental problems are then analyzed in
detaii. problem area bv problem area.
The next section presents the approaches which are recomrnended for the
mitigation and monitoring measures .w-hich need to be taken. bv problem area to
deal with generic problems. These recommendations are then summarized in an
environrnental management plan shoxwing also the responsibilities for the
impiementation of this plan.



I



II. Overview of Goals and Framewvork for
Environmental Management
A.    General
The ov-rall philosophy of :he Royal Gove`rment of Bhutan (RGoB,)
towards sustainable development and the environtment. is detailed in the
-National Environmental Strate<z%. NEC 199S". Brieflv, the 2overnment has
stated in zhe strongest possible .e..s. that protecting the natural environment.
and ensuring that development acu:.tties undertaken in the Kin2dom must be
done in a sus.ainable and environm-enrail sensitive manner. The RGoB places
a hi2h level oi importance on protc: ing Bhutan's rich natural heritage for lrture
generations. Bhutan is a party to 7.x o :nternational conventions. CBD and
UN'FCCC.
in 19L)  draft EA guide!lines :r Bhutan wvere prepareed by the National
Environment Commiss;on Secrt vanat  ith assistance trrom other -overnment
agenc:es. and endorsed by the Na::cna2 Environment Commission (NEC). The
uideiines wnere generic ue.. no. :a:.-red cioselv to Bhutanese conditions). and
institutional aLran-ements. inc;:t":n. roles and resoonsibilities were not c!eariv
defined. In addition. lack of suitabiv trained oersonnel restrained NEC and other
ezoveriment ministnes from -frec.::. eiv implementing the guidelines. The N-EC
is the reviewing agent ot'all EAi documents prepared bv project proponents.
As a result of the above-menru-oned deficiencies. NEC. with technical
assistance from the Asian Deveoumrnent Bani (.A.DB) undertook a major revision
of the environmental assessment orocess. culminating in the publishing of a
series of technical documents. These documents include: (a) Sectoral
Guideiines for: Forestr. Mining ard Minerai Processing,. New and Existing
Industries. Hydropower. Transmission Lines. Highwavs and Roads. and
Strategic Environmental Assessments (NEC 1999 a). (b) Institutionalizing and
Strengthening of the Environmental Assessment Process ir. Bhutan (NEC 1999
b). Reference Document: (c) Arr'oien.t Discharsae Standards and Environmental
Sampiing NManual (NEC 1999c): and id) Environmental Assessment Process
Manual (NEC 1999d).
The above documents and -uidelines govern the EA process. and until the
Draft Environmental Assessment Act (1997) is formally approved by RGoB. all
development and construction activities have to comply with the Environmental
ComplianceN'otiticationNo NEC EA,98-99,655 dated  4th Februarv 1999
issued bv the Chairman of the NEC.
N-EC views the environmental assessment process as a dynamic one. and
will initiallv review both the implementation of the process. and kev project
documents on an annual basis. Suggested improvements will be carefully
2



considered bv NEC and affected ministries, with a view to ensuring the process
remains relevant and practical.
B.    Summarv of Environmental Assessment Process
Fi,ure L illustrates the en -.-onmental assessment process ror projects in
Bhutan. Under this process. the proiect prospectus document is the point of
entry into the environmental assesssment process. Projec. proposals are fed into
one of four categories (project assessment paths) based on results of impact
scoping and screening activities
Ca.tecorv A. Proposals which rtluire a full environmental assessment to
establish the extent and magnituc_ o potential impacts. These projects are
usuallv categorized as complex.
Cate-orn B. Proposals which hla% e potentially significant impacts. ho wever
manaaement and treatment optic.rs a-e wvell developed and understood. These
projects can be adequately mana-"; :.-rough application ot detailed impact
mana2ement and monitorin pia-s.
Categorv C. Proposais that hav;e oderate impacts which tend to be repetitive
(e.g. certain aspects or road cor.s_c::on. or tore.s narvesting practicesl. nese
impacts can be managed by attacn:n.   environmental codes-of-best-practice to
licenses and permits: and
Categorv D. Proposals that hav- moderate and easilv mana2ed impacts.
Simple environmentai zerms are a:ac .ed to the business permits or licenses (e.g.
.vaste disposai and hygienic practices for the restaurant business).
Cate2ory A. B and C orolects wVill 7eQuire environmental clearance bv N-EC
before the competent authonrty proCvides development consent. Category D
projects can be issued development consent bv the competent authortyv without
obtaining an envirorlrnental clearance bv NEC. However, the competent
Authoritv will submit a list of projects approved under categorv D to \EC for
annual review.
The National Environment Commission has developed an Environmental
Assessment Process Manual (NEC i999). which provides technical guidance for
each component of the environmental assessment (EA) process. The following
specific topics are covered in the manual:
* Preparing a Project Prospecras Document
* Scoping of Impacts
* Screening Projects
*  Initial Environmental Examination (IEE)
* Developing Impact Mlanagement and %MIonitoring Plans: and
* Environmental Assessment R-eorLs.
3



Project Prospectus
Document
V            No. 'urner nltormanon requ,reo
unacceotacie  Impact Scoping    Yes       Aequare ,fmadion to
rnpacts                                     coeimpacts
C  Project rejected   )                          11*e        Screening
ICategory 0)             (Categoiy C;                  Category B)
Impacts mooefare.        Impacts modefate.            mpacr- sign,icant.                             Comlexoey Ac
enanagement simple         project repettive          managemenr known
rnoac-'s     :moacsXofl
Develop TOR 'or IEE |i
reveioo 7OR 'or  j          E  Document
mranagement and             Ievelop  OR for EA
mon tonng  Ilan
vs           }         °c)naocr       I
'moac:s
Artachen                Attachment of                                     mptsig  n
environmental           environmental                                     and managernent                 '
terms to           terrns or codes of               impact                  k        nwn
business             test practice to            managernent                    /EA document.
permits and          business permits           b and mon.tonng                                   including impact
iccence                                              plan                                       management and
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'V
_~~~~~~~~~~~e.. an w_
Pro ect re ecte      No
'es                         SuOmit moantorSg eaoorsdata
Figure 1: Procedure for Project Assessment
[n addition to the EA Mlanual. NEC has prepared a number of supporting
resource documents. includini  sec.oral oo uidenines wvhich proeide in-depth
backuzround material on the whole E .  process for a number of sectors.
4



Figure 2: Project Review Process
impac: Scoping
irnac:s
Category
3ra (D~ ~~~~~~   3-
-~~~~~~~~~~ -  -c e n -n to -  -  -  -  -  -                             ---                           -  -  -  -  -_ -                              
_a  rc
.                               D Oeveloo  CR for EIA,
IEE or Management ancd
Monitori*t Ptlan andi
Peasabslity Level                       Measi=iiity Oesigna
Environmental Design                         Aaai          n
Caa.escry         
Za:e_fies A. 3.
Cateorti                             Develco  Detailed
O                          .     ODesign _wtIl Impact
Management andl
Monitonng Plans
I                            _…
_   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -  - - - - - - I--  ____   
I~~~~~~ -:                       - - - - - - - - - -
Project Imojementation



C.    Existing Svstem of Policv. Proaram. and Project Formulation
Reviewing steps involved in major project formulation was necessary to
establish potential mechanisms tor ncorporating strategic or sectoral
environment assessments (SEA) at :he policv. pianning and program level in
Bhutan. Currentlv policv formulation occurs primarily throu2h one of tLwo
routes. The first is at the cabinet lev--l and the second through coordinated
lobbvin2 at lower levels in the bureaucracy or bv the public through their
appropriate representatives. Policv nitiatives originating by either roure require
ratification by the National Assem'b;. Program deveiopment is coordinated bv
,he Planning Commission Secretariat and MIinistry of Finance (including the
Budget and Aid Coordination Division wvithin the Ministrv of'Finance).
[ntetzrated renewable natural resource (RNR) and land use pianning are
coordinated bv the Dzon2Ahaz adir-inistration and the Mlinistry of Azricuinure.
U_nder .he existinv svstem,. the Nat:cnai Environment Commission (NEC) does
not have the authori or mnandate no biock project impie-rentation as the
*aDDroval' for deve!ooment has r, e:-ec: alreadv been gInven as a comoonent of
the nationai development s[rate e., :moie.mented or a t.ve y.-ear plan basis. .nis
dUetclenc,. hiuhiivihts the need to assess major deveiopment thrusts at a ni:h
pianning anc policv levei. and not lust at a projec lIevei. For exampie. potential
environmental imoacts of individua; urban investment proiects are being
assessed. however. cumulative im=acts of increasing urbanization are not
currently addressed.
D.    Inclusion of Sectoral EA (SEA) into the Planning Processes
As discussed in'the NEC document 'Institutionaiizing anzd Strengrilening
or'fhe Environm?enrtal 4ssessm?zenzt P-ocess in Bhzzrtani - Reference Doczanenrr.
NEC 1999 . environmental assessment has in the past been considered
syn.onymous with the EA process. H.owever. EA should be considered a
function to be carTied out at all leveis of planninz. Establishing SEA as an
integral component of the planning. process in Bhutan wouid result in ditfe-ent
planning levels working together in a more integrated manner. It is hoped that
usin!z the three main planning leveis would have a positive impact: possible
approaches for implementation are:
Long-term Strategic Polic /I10 *ear - policv horizon): National policies
are often framed in termns of long-term social and economic development goals.
Steps that could be followed to establish SEA' in Bhutan are: Revisit
recommendations of the Paro Conferences and formalize the results in a
National Sustainable Development Strategyv for Bhutan with clear criteria for
sustainabilitv that will guide all lower levels of the development planning
process. There is a need to complement the current National Environment
Strategzv with a National Economic Development Strategv and a National Social
Development Strategy: with the three strategies (the three components of
6



sustainability) closelv linked and intezrated, strategic contlicts would be
minimized.
Sectoral Pro grum De' e1op,eW LeICl hfegruuon (10 'rear program psoiicv
hot':_on andl 5 year pro- grua  plLtnn:'Zg horizon;: Application of SE.A would
ensure better integration ot- enviro=mental. social and economic policies . ithin
sectors. and promote sustainable f-orms of development. The RGoB wouidc like
Cor the SEA to guide ,overnment and private proponents ;n assessing proiecs at
a program and policy leve! beginning in the next five-year plan. Steps ±hat
could be taken to implement SEA. at this level are:
a)   Undertake a cerrosLec:ive stratezic environmental and socal
impact assessment ofL- the rec-ntly completed 3h five year plan.
5)u22est revisions that may have avoided identified inte7-secoral
contlicts and adverse social and environ-mentai imnacs.
DI   Use the results of':he S2 five year pian revie.v- zo (ieveico a
comprehensive process or inter-secworal consultation. c.oss-
sector. environmental and soc:ai Issue :dentclucauion. and conL;icL
resolution to be iTr.-cducd i n the pre:aration of the 9  :. e wear
plan.
C)   Undertakle secroral impac, assessments tor sectors not cove-rd bv
the NEC sectoral -uIdeiines (i.e. urban or agrnculture) arnc or
new development irltiatives to determine generic issues and
impacts. policy and standards for environmental protecuon. and
prescriptions tor irmpact management and monitoringz.
Integrated R.VR Jand .SnuazaZ PAlanning !5 y ear planninig horizon ': Establish
a prioritv schedule for inte-rated spatiai planning at the Dzongkhag Ge.xog ievel
focusing on: (a) Areas of inter-sectoral contlict requiring land suitabilitv
analvsis. harmonization ot developrment objectives. and zonin2: and (b) A.reas
experiencing cumulative environmental and social impacts from a number of
development projects (i.e. industrial and urban). Local go-ernments will require
considerable technical assistance from central government departments. and this
must be considered in plan scheduling and prioritization.
III. Environmental Conditions of Project Towns
A.    Environmental Hig,hlights
Tnis section of the environmental assessment is divided into two oarts.
First, a summarv overview of the urban context and environmental issues in
each of the ten towns in the project is provided. This does not attempt a
svstematic and comprehensive description of all urban issues. but highlights the
most significant environmental issues in each town individually. This illustrates
both diversitv of issues and reveals those areas which are common to several or
most of the towns and thus suauest the need for a sector-wide approach. The
7



second pars of this section provides informiation neczssary to focus upon
possible generic soiutions which ar- rhen discussed in the followving section of
the report.
Although the project tO%v-.s do not have a high level of urban services.
the _eo-raohic setting together %w-ith the lowv density of development and the
slowv pace of growth have kept env;ron_mental problems to a relatively low level.
Most towvns are zrowing now at a rate of 5% annually.
B.    En-ironmental Profiles bv Town
WAN GD U E
The town of Wa'nydue lies art he confluence of the Dana Chhu and
Tsang Chhu and is t.he adminis;r^:v e center Cor the District of Waanvdue
?hodramn. It also lies at the  ast-  est and nlorth-south roads junction and is
.veii piac3ei to benerit :rom passing -tade along these important routes.
Aarculture is the most important eonomic activity in the distr.ct. Wanzdue
towvn is the principal serz.ice ce-ner .or the aancultural hinterlandi. At present
.his function is provided by the :1a-e number of shops seilinu essential
provisions. However. several orher activities. such as repair workshops.
orocessinm and saw mills. have esabhlished. which indicates that the economic
base of the town is siowvlv diversirW-ing and broadening to become more than
merelv an administrative center in which che majonity of residents are public
sector empio-r ees. The district orfices, facilities of central government have been
established within ard in the vicInity of the dzong. As a result. land suitable for
urban de:elopment is extremely limnited in the immediate vicinitv of the tow-n.
Due to this constraint. urban development has started to colonize the
steep slopes adjacent to the town center. Due to the terrain and the unplanned
nature of this deveiopment it will be difficult to extend or improve infrastructure
provision within these areas. Development has also begun to occur on the
irrgated agicultural land of Baiothan2 to the north of the Center for
Aguicultural Research and Development (C.ARD). MNost of this development
has not been properlv planned and vill also be difficult to service with
In frastructure.
TRASHI YANGTSE
The town of Trashi Yanutse is centrallv placed in the district sen-ing an
area that was formerlv part of Trashigang Dzon-khag. As such it is one of the
most recent Dzongkha!ns in the countrr. Most of the Dzongkhag is covered bv
forest. Pastures for vak-s are found in the highlands. whereas drv land
agriculture is the predominant cultivation. The main crops are maize. rice,
beans. millet. potatoes. chili and vegetables. Compared to the lower portion of
the district. the town's a=ricultural hinterland is small and its resource base
8



limited. To2ether with the relative isolation of the area, the town's arow-th
potential is not as high as settleme.ts to the south. Duk;sum in particular. Most
of the town's residents are govern=en: ernployees wvho are posted to the town.
There is also good potential for oto=t'sm. especiallv because of the proximirv of
the feedinr  -rounds for the black nr-ee-ked crane which are situated east ofthe
town. In addition. there is a healthy wvood-based cottage industries.
An urban deveiopment plan xxas First prepared in 1993 and updated in
1995. Plan impiementation began %vith surracing of the main road through the
towvn as far as the Dzong. A local ar-a oian was developed. recomrnending
adequate infrastructure services. inciuding passive recreationai areas. Urban
planning is intended to consoiidat- and optimize land use. thereby minimizing
encroaching arable land in the pe.-:herai areas. In particular. the land
surroundin, the -horten has been- =rotec:eu. The relativelv small Khiolong Chhu
(17.er) mav also require some eros:on control measures.
ZHE.NIGA.NG
Zhem znm is the adminisran .-- center of Zhemuanv district. It lies ont
the road from Trongsa to Gelepi.u :-. the northem oart of the district. The
district is relativeiv underdevelope_ due to steep terrain. As a result some S5%'0
of its area is still under forest cover- and controlled loggin- is a major economic
activity. The town occuoies a hih- rid-e overlookiing the vallev orTrongsa
Chhu.
Mlost employment opporn-..ities are provided bv the district
administration. district otfices of various central government departments and
institutions lik-e the police. the basic health unit and the two schools. In
addition. there are several projects offices located in the town. There are no
other economic activities in the tow%n aDart from timber auction and the shops.
The 15 shops that exist within Zherrtgans provide a service to this workforce
and their families. as weil as persons wvho are visitinz the administration,'otfices
or passing through the town en route to another destination.
LHUN-TSE
As the administrative center. Lhuntse is centrallv located in the district.
close to the confluence of the Kuri Chhu and the Khoma Chhu. The tow,Tn is at
the end of a road whichi starts at a -unction with the main east west higvhwav.
some 75 kms to the south. Due to steep terrain and unstable geology, the road is
in poor condition and requires frequent maintenance. Apart from forest. which
covers 60)% of the district. economicallv productive areas are concentrated to the
south and comprise cultivation of maize. rice. chilli. potato and sova beans.
Lhuntse is located in very, steep terrain. In the vicinitv of the Dzong,
land wvith tzentle or moderate slopes is extrcmelv limited. and that which is
9



available has been utilized bv district ofrices.- schools. the hospital and other
institutional uses. As a result. here- 's no suitable land for private residential or
commercial development within eas reach of the town. The few shops that
exist have no pernanent location. Previously thev were siruated beside the
nver. just below the Dzonm. F-aing the rsk of flood, they were then shifted to
their present location beside the main road ibelovw the compound of the animal
husbandr,v vetennar. office). Due to the lack otfpermanent land title. shop
owners hav e constructed temporar'- strucrures. which are in poor condiEion.
RANGJUNG
The town ofCRangunm is si-tated some I- Iins to the east ofrthe distict
c-nter otTrashiman- on the roati to ?hor.tne. It is located centrallv within the
vallev of the Gamri Chhu and has _ee:oeh?ed as a service center t'r a larze
a,rlcuitural hinter'and. The pr.c.:nai -rops are maize. wce. ;Whea. millet.
potato. _ariic and chili Apples amd oranrzes are aiso grown.
Further de'.eiooment oft   s   I.    s constrained by an acute shortane
o. sultable landL. In onseauence. Ran gung has good scope as a satellite 'town
that can absorb some of the deveioor,enrt -hat mi_ht othervise have occured in
;he district center. Moreover, the roie of Raniun!z as a service center for the
local hinterland 'ooks promising. 1t :s trneretore anticipated that Ranjung will
ascend in importance and ver soorn become a signiticant town. In view of
recent ievelopment trends. the prenaration of an urban plan is appropriate and
timei.
The growth of Rangung has oeen rapid in recent vears. Formerlv the
settlement was ar. aricultural viilaae comprising a few farm houses. Todav
there is a main strett with shops and restaurants. Other services can be expected
to develop over time. In short. Rarg'ung is a typical example of a settlement
Whose economic base is (raduallv converting from agriculture to urban. Land in
the immediate vicinity of the tow n wvill under2o a similar conversion. and indeed
this orocess is alreadv evidenced by the construction of houses adjacent to the
main street.
[n the absence of'a town plan, urbanization has been unplanned. Mslany
of- the new houses have no adequate access. nor does their location taken into
account the eventual need to provide urban services in a cost effective and
rational manner. Wiselv the Dzonakhaz introduced a moratorium on all new
construction in November 1998 which is to remain in force until a town plan has
been prepared and approved.
TINGTIB[
Tingtibi is located at the junction of the roads to Gelephu and Gonaphu
at a bridging point on the Man2de Chhu. Although the terrain is steep. the rivers
10



being in narrow valles. Tingtibi occuDies a bowl of tlat land hemmed in
between high hills on all sides. Tingtibi is centrally located within the district
and is well placed to serve the ne-ds of substantial agricultural areas In close
proximitv. At present, the town receives adequate water supply although it is not
treated. There is a need -'or proper- land use planning to provide adequate civic
space. At present.-;t is aiso near .o hospitals. schools and road 0&X1 offices.
TRONGSA
Trongsa is located at the  ncrion of'the east-west highwvay and the road
to Gelephu. As such, its primary runction derives from transit activity. Unlike
other district centers. it does not service a large agricultural hinterland as most
land in the vicinity oft'he town is oresc covered and. or zoo steep :,or
cultivation. It has an est:mated ye.ar 2001) population of 1.SO0.
Land suitabie for urban de: eloDment is :xtremeiv limited in Trongsa
town. This occurs because most :and has slones that are too steen for urban
development. A further problem :s the ground condition o- the towvn c_nter and
the hillside immediateiv above it are cnaracterzed bv denris rocI9 denosits
embedded In micaccous zlav fintes. This geoloyv is lknowvn to be unstable. The
risk of landslide was confirmed ;v.h-en a water tank above the town center -ailed
due to zround movement. Drainaee o. ;he slope has helped the situation but the
risk is still a major conc-mr. Recent development has therefore occurrzd on the
north slopes of the towvn. in the vic.nir, of the high school. Mlost oft;his has
been institutional development rather than construction of private buildings.
Some river erosion controi measures along wide improved drainage
svstem is envisaged. The river is next to the Trongsa dzong- which is the biggest
and one of the oldest monuments in the countrv. Although the dzon- is in no
immediate danser from the river being at a higher elevation, there is still a need
for some erosion control measures and appropriate landscaping.
DUKSU'Ml
Duksum is strategically located at the confluence of the Dow-ung Chhu
and the Dangrmi Chhu and functions as a service center tor a significant
agricultural hinterland. including the settlement of Ranthanm Wung which lies
immediatelv to the north. several hundred meters above the town. In recent
vears Duksum has expanded rapidly and mav in future overtak-e Trashi Yangtse
as an economic center. To date. the town has developed on a narrow nrver
terrace that is constrained to the west bv the river and steep cliffs that rise
sharplv to the east. Expansion to the north is not possible as the terrace
terminates at a bend in the river. whereas to the south the land drops abruptlv to
the Dangmi Chhu The town comoprises approximateiv 40 buildings (mostiv
single-story shophouscs) and a PW,\D compound. LMore recentlv. development
has commenced alonm the cravel track that extends a short distance up the valley
tl



ot the Doxvung Chhu. The police and pow er division are both constructing
comoounds in this localitv.
B UMNITHANG
Due to its zlacial ori2ins. ate valleys of Bumithang district are broader
than eisewvhere in Bhutan. The cl:inate is also colder due to the hiTher airitude.
As a r'sult.agriculture is generai`. conflned to the floor of the four main
vallevs, and the main crops are t% neat. bucknvheat. barley and rne. Livestock is
also si-nificant. The central vallev of;the distnct is formed by the Charnkhar
Chhu and contains the administra:Vve center ofJakar. [mmediatelv to the east of
Jak-ar is the town of Chamkhar Both-townvs have exoanded in recent years to
form a single settlement that is ref-r-ed .o as Bumthang. Bumthang tow-n is
located at the bridging point of the Clamrnkhar Chhu. on the main east .v-st
highwav betwveen Trongsa ard  lorgr.r
The urbarn development po2entiai ot' he Bumthanm town is ver- wood.
There :s an abundance of tlat land suizaoie for urbanization and the town s role
as a serv ice center is readiiv app=--n. by -he large number of shoos that =ave
developed in recent Xears. Mtcrecve7. .a number of w orkshops. handic-a'
centers and hotels have established ;vhich confirm that the town's tuncnion as a
service and tourist center is promisirn.
The towns of Jaklar and Chiamr.khar comprise the main urban settlement
within the vallev. Howeve-r. in recent years Chamk-har has expanded rapidly
with the construction of shops along the road that leads to the bridge. Also. an
informal market has established in the area immediatelv to the south of he road.
A further development trend is apparent along the road to the north. on the wvest
side of the valley. Here. land is gradually converting to urban use in an
incremental and unplanned manner. This can be seen by the number of
buildings. many ot'which are without proper road access and are supplied bv ad
hoc water supplv systems.
PARO
Paro is an Important urban settlement within Bhutan. It occupies a
central position in the district and functions as a service center for a large
agzricuitural hinteriand. Its unique fearures include the onlv airport in the
countrv. a spacious vallev with an abundance of flat land. most utilized ;'or
irrigated agriculture (some of the most productive in the countrv). and
proximity to both Thimphu and Phuentsholing, the two principal towns of
Bhutan. In recent vears Paro has increased in population. MIuch oftthis is due to
non-agricultural employment opportunities. In this reg,ard. the airport has
plaved a major role. as well as a steadv growth in tourism. In addition. the
emergence of service industnres is evident bv the number of shops and related
activities.
12



Paro compnrses two valleys through wvhich tlow the Paro Chhu and the
Doe Chhu. The town center is located at their contluence. To the south- the
vallev extends bevond the airport to terminate abruptly at a point where it
narrows. The total distance trom north to south is approximately ' 4rns as the
crowv flies, and considerablv longer by road. As azriculture is the predominant
landi use. most of the buildinzs are -:arrnhouses. manv of which are looseli
¢rouoed in traditional villages.
At present there is no precise definition of the municiDal boundar..
Aoplications for building oerrmits have therefore been determined using the
same cntena that appil within any district, namelv that no construction is
permitted on land that is presently i. -gated (wetland). As a result. newv
construction has occurred on the moderate siooes along vallev sides. in !ocations
above ir.-.ated land. The only exceptions are Paro tvown center, the Bond-,. area
and a fewv institutionai develoome-:s ciose to the aimor. [n consequencc. he
settlement oatern of the valley h. -nc.easingi become scattered as evidenced
bv ;he many isolated buildings.
This trend is li.Kelv to contiue. carticu[ariv aS the Jaranese-fundid Paro
V'allev project has constructed a nu,mber or't'arrn roads that improve the
accessibilitv to existing and future houses aiong the entire length of the valle%
on both sides. As demands for urban se-vices and tacilities increase. the cost of
their nrovision will be much higher rhan desirable due to the low densirt of
development and the tendency for future housing to follow existing roads in a
linear manner.
C. Common Environmental Issues
*  Water resources are abundant but turbidity and bactenroloiical
contamination during the monsoon season from surface water run-off and
occasional landslides is a problem for that part of the vear
*  Water qualitv deterioration from bacteriological contamination is prevalent
in the distribution network due to leakages and improper laying of pipes.
*  Sanitation disposal facilities are inadequate resulting in septic tank
overflows, and there are no facilities available for septic tank cleaning and
sludge disposal. Pit latrines w hich are still used bv manv households are
often improperly located and constructed. Public toilets where thev exist are
not maintained and therefore are little used.
*  Drainage systems arc inadequate and improperly designed. The small
number of household in these tow%ns dischazLrc their "grav' wastew vater
13



(kitchen and washin,g water) directlv into open drains, and thence into the
main water bodies. Few of the owvns have draina,e outline and master
plans. and the major drainage systems do not function well.
*  In some towns vwith larser 1vers. there is increasin,2 erosion along the river
banks. threatenin- stabilitv of the slopes above.
*  Solid waste manazement and disposa! is inadequate. wvith manv towns
disposing waste informatll i;n d-ains. lanes and streets, or in uncontrolled
dumpsites. The coilection ancd .isDosai of household garbage is a persistenr
problem of city corporations ard Dzongkhags. The RGoB has recently
banned the use of piastic carr.; bazs :o avoid the accumulation ot non-
degradable products: this !aud_bie nitiative shouid helo to reduce the
piastucs pollution of drains anur s;r-ams.
-  Cuitural and heritage sites are ber'1 threatened bV: unplanned developments
an(i ncomoatibie ;and uses  . r.. notels beinu built within close oroximirw to
national and religious monurments: and. poor and unsafe construction ot
houses in the immediate ViCi,_It., o; these important monuments)
• Lack of space that could possibly lead to traffic congestion. improper
planning and solid waste coilec=ion svstem
-  Lack ofrpublic health axwareness
IV.   National Strategies and Policies for the Urban Sector
A.    Background
The framework for urban development in Bhutan is laid dowvn in the
Five-Year Plans and. traditionailv. the government has taken an inteJrated
muiti-sectoral approach to urban development. Thus. the objectives and
strategies for human settlement development during the SFYP period focus on
urban development planning, housing, water supplv, sanitation. and capacity
building to manage urban development.
B.    Objectives for Human Settlements of the 8FYP
* Achieve a balanced and sustainable development of human settlements:
provision of basic infrastructure: conservation of environmental character
and culture; and provision of affordable and climatically suitable hlousine for
all
14



*  Increase the use of improved %vater supplies to 30% of rural and 100% of
urban households
*  Increase access to and use or baas;c sanitarv facilities
*  Improve understanding among 'benericiaries of the relationship betwveen
water-borne diseases. hygiene. V. ater qualitv and sanitarv conditions
* Further improve accessibiliry to remote areas by constructing 50 more
suspension bridges
*  Promote human resource development and institutional strenzmthening
C.    Strategies for Human Sertlements of the 8FYP:
•  Preparation of water resource .nventorn and catchrmrent area management
mast plan as top pnorit%
*  Existing master plans 'or C:' ,.unici?ai Corporations .viil be revie.ved and
implemented a!ier incorpora n:-  the recessar; cnanges
*  Selected grow th centers and      roswr:ct owns will be olannedm. desizned. and
their development orpiemen:ec
- A4 Ie~al framne.-or.s an.d ho's.K ^ojii;. will be ,orrmulated
•  To support sustainability. tar.-f and service charges *vill be established to
meet at least the cost orfopera.ion and maintenance ot water supplies. The
contribution and invoivemen; of'users will be uiven high prioritv.
*  To protect and safeguard the exisuing water supply and sanitation
infrastructure. onontv vill continue to be given to rehabilitate old and non-
functioning schemes
•  Alternative loxv-cos; rural water supplv through the protection of traditional
springs for scartered houses introduced in 1994 will be Lrther promoted
*  Technologies most appropriate -or conditions in Bhutan will be emphasized.
particularlv with regards to desizg. construction. and operation and
maintenance
*  Institutional development and HiRD will be given high prioriv. including
specialization in different fields of expertise
D.    Specific Concerns of RGoB Related to the Urban Sector
*  Encroachment on current arabi_ Land should be prevented to the extent
possible since arable land is remarkabiv scare
*  Soil erosion in connection with land development and construction works
should be prevented to the extent possible bv avoiding the most erosion-
prone areas for urban development and using environmentallv friendlv
construction methods
* Care should be taken to prov, de adequate and sate water supplv. and
collection. treatment and disposai of solid waste and wastewater
15



* Care should be !vlen to maintain. air qualiltv bv minimizing the urban
combustion of  fossil fuels. wvood,. diesel. petrol. kerosene. etc by providin,
affordable and convenient aitm-attves
*  Care should be ziven to ensune: ubiic cooperation in waste and energy
managTement
*  Urban transDort nerwork and facfiities should be designed to meet the furure
transporTation demand and ore'.vent road accidents
*  Care should be Jzi%en to prod  adequate drainage in connection with urban
roads and buildings
•  Care should be taken to avotc s_;--  and religious sites to ;he extent
possibie
*  Caoac:ttv builainu asoects o. iri'- develooment rnuanaement and
maintenance ot' urban tntrast~:ure siould be looked into. and
*  Contractors should be suffic.en.t.y s'kiiled in applying appropriate
construction technoio2ies.
E.    Sectoral Policies
The followinat ruales and rev.ilations apply to urban development in
B hutan:
* Water and Sanitation Rules. iul. 1995
*  Road Safety and Transport Ac: 1997
*  Municipal Act. 1999
* The Bhutan Human Settlements Sector. December 1996
*  Urban Land Administration Act (Final Draft). July 1998
* Town and Countrv Planninz Act (Draft). 1998
* Land Pooling Nlanual (Draft.. !May 1998
* Bhutan Building Rules. 1999
* Rules and regulations for construction of temporary. semi-permanent. and
permanent houses on either side of the roads (Mlinistry of Home Affairs,
1993)
*  Code of Practice for Plumbing. 1984
*  Guidelines for Structural Design of Buildingrs
*  Bhutan Housintz Policv. Mlarch 1999 (Draft)
The Code of Practice for P!umbing has not been revised since its
introduction. but it is about to be updated under the ongoing DANIDA-assisted
16



Urban Sector Prorarn Support. T'e Water and Sanitation Rules have been
introduced to ensure a clean and healith  urban living environment. The ruies
clearlv spell out the necessarv urban environrmental management actions related
to safe and reliable drinking water supoiv. sanitation and solid waste services.
The rules also specify the imposition of fines and penaities. such as the
disconnection of service lines. on c-faulters. Such defaults could be amon2 the
follow -in: failure to connect ro ex:.s,n  munmcipal water supplv or sewer mains.
non-cormpliance with piumbing code. non-payment ot'water or sewerage
charges. illegal connections, or disc`argze of triide. industrial effluent.
Other relevant acts and reguianrons are either in the formulation stage or
in the process of obtaining f'ormai approval. The Nfunicipal Act has been 'ssued
as an ordinance which has been sumritted to the -7-' National Assembly r'or
rati'ication. The Bhutan Building R-les have been submirted ro the Cabin- f-or
approval. and a number ofother :-'evant urban polic' and legal actions are
oeing evolved.
Currentlv no sneciric en.v-r.-c entai oojectives and standards pernaining
'o urban deveiopment have betn -, eveoped for Bhutan. The NEC has stare - to
deveoo such guidelines '.vhich'.xo ud include screeninu cr.eria- impact
manazement. impac, monitonrin  -.d a checklist of environmental parameters
Cor urban development orojec:s. As discussed in the NEC document
institutionalizinM and Strengthening of the Environmental .Assessment Process
in Bhutan - Reference Document  999". emphasis will be placed on the
Bhutanese EA process in scoping potentiai imDacts as a means of determiningy
which screening option Is most appropnrate. More traditional screening cnteria,
which depend on project size. are not appropnate for Bhutan given the unstable
mountainous terrain and sensiti\e ecosystem which cover much of the countrv.
Scoping of predicted impacts. based on information provided in the project
prospectus. provides the RGoB tlexibilirv in determining the level of
environmental assessment a project will require, irrespective of size. Urban
development planning, design and implementation will be subjected to
environmental assessment as part of an overall strategic planning process. which
should involve consultation with other sectors. While construction maintenance
will be regulated bv zhe application of codes of practice in operational contracts
or reg,ulation. A generalized checklist of environmental parameters to consider
when scoping potential impacts of urban development projects will have to be
developed bv  SDHD in consultation with N`EC. The intent of this check-list
would be to improve. both impact scoping in location and design planning. and
the preparation of environumental codes of practice (ECOP - see below), and
contract conditions and specifications for construction. as well as guidelines and
instructions for operation. maintenance and abandonment.
Under the Bhutan Urban Development Project. tcchnical assistance
would be provided to NEC in ftrther developing environmental objectives and
standards pertaining to urban deve!opment in the countrv in close collaboration
17



with the Urban Development andi Housing Division. Mlinistry of
Communications. In addition. Environmental Codes of Best Practice for
Sanitation and Solid Waste Mana-ement will be develoed in the initial sraoe of
the project. The Environmental Codes of Practice tECOP) are intended to .-i
within the existing rramework of the EA- process. while oroviding a pragpiarnc
and simple mechanism to improve activities. in particular in key two municioal
sectors with potentiallv the most se-nous environmental impacts: sanitation and
solid waste managzement. ECOP should tak-e into account relevant rules,acts and
should be easv to monitor. They should address potential positive and negartve
environmental imMacts. environmren.tai mititation measures. provide a suaggsted
check-list tfor investment. soeciricanons tor construction. ooerational guiddeines.
and instirutional and monitonn- enforcement arrangernents. At the dzon2khaz
level. the project will also sur)ooo  oublic education and axwareness prozrams.
A. Actions and Improvements Proposed by the Project for
the Promotion of Environmental Management
in the Project Towns
Nlana2ement of WVater .Resources
',ater resources surveys would be caz.ed out in critical areas. and arn imcroved
svstem for monitoring .he quality of raw water -ill be instituted. Where aih
quantitv and reliabilitv of the rawv wvacer sources is a potential problem dur-ng
the monsoon period and also during the long dry season. water catchrnent area
protection measures wil be instituted. The longertern pianning and protecion
of water resources needed for urban .ater supply Will be coordinated with :he
Forestry and Agniculture departments.
'.   Improvement in Water SuaDi  Qualitv and Service
Water quality deterioration within the town svstems would be addressed with
improvements and rehabilitation of zhe towv-n network svstem. including the
house connections. This effort wvill be supported bv better quality controi.
higher standards for materials.' improving of slkills in pipelaving, more reguiar
suDervision and maintenance, and civic education to prevent damagzes to the
svstem. Adequate treatment of water. bv filtration and chlorination. will be
provided through the project to ensure the consistent qualitv of water supply.
and tap water quality will be monitored on a regular basis. The treatment piant
operators will be provided with training and operational guidelines and manuals
to ensure proper system operation and maintenance.
18



3.   Improvements in Sanitation
On sanitation. septic tanks for individual housin_ are mandatorv bv local
bvlaws, and this requirement wvill be strctlI enforced for new ouildinLs. Under
che Droject. provision is made for rhe suDplv of desluding equipment and
facilities. since sePtic tanks requlre cleaning trom time to time (at a maximum
ever'' five vears). The oro-ect m-iil provide Cunding .'or che purchase of-a vacuum
truck for each town and the setting uo of an environmentally acceptable sludge
disDosal facilitv.
However. due to the lack- of land titles. most households are reluctant to invest in
permanent sanitation facilities. En general. thev have pit latrines which are
improperly constructed on intorm,a lard. and moreover, are not properly
maintained. Existinz houses and loner income households will be assisted to
upgrade their existinu septic tarnks or to .morove their pit latrines to an
acceptabie standard  i.. the ventilate-d mproved tw-iM-pit latnnne. In suPport ot'
this. there will be a coordinated nubiic Lducation and training programs to cover
alil asnects of sanitation. including wvater use. toilet construction. septic Lark
maintenance and c;eanin<. and w-'s;- disDosal. The project wiil also provide
pav-and-use toilets for the towx n c.nt-rs. and thev wi1ll be mana-ed and
maintained by a paid attendant.
Drainage Improv ements
None ot the towns has a completeiv coherent main drainage system and feew
have even a proper drainage outline or master plan. In cases where such a plan
is missing. it will be the rirst prior'iz- to prepare such a pian. and construction of
the main components of the svstem wvill roilow this plan. Even when the main
drainage is properil designed and built. there opten remains the problem of the
incoherence and poor design and construction of local drainage. Lack of
maintenance of drains has also beern hiizhli2hted. More attention needs to be
paid bv the communitv to the impor ance to ensuring that these drains are kept
clean. and the public awareness and education program will explore suitable
approaches for making households responsible for the cleanliness and regular
maintenance of the local (tertiar-;-) drains in their neighborhood.
5.   River Erosion Protection
In some towns, situated-on larger rivers. there are problems with eroding nrver
banks: this is exacerbated during the monsoon season when rivers tend to tlood.
[t is proposed that gabian walls will be installed aiongr the worst affected
sections to arrest the bank erosion and secure the slopes above to prevent land
slides which could affect the towns. Where possible. bio-engineering measures
Vwould be taken to prevent further stabilize the steep slopes. The gabion walls
alon- the river banks will require monitoring, and repairs as necessary,. to mak}e
sure that there is no re-occurrcnce of the bank erosion.
19



6.   Improved Solid Waste -Marnagement and Disposal
Solid waste management and collection improvrements xxill be complemented bv
training and motivation of staff. and also by public education. Due to the
generallv long distances of disposai sites from the towns. improvements to
equipment. operation and maintenance of the transport tleet will be addressed bv
the project as a prionity. Solid Waste disposal sites everywhere need
improvements and this wvill reauire training of staff in standard procedures for
identification, preparation and management of these sites. Similariv. the
landfilling equipment (excavators. navloaders) are verv expensive relative to the
scale of the size of the towvn and the garba2e generated. Economies of scale are
difficult o realize given the distances between towvns. and the difficult terain.
To reduce cost. it is important -o seduce iolid waste quantities through
promotion or waste separaion anu . ecyciing: this 'viiI be achieved :hrough an
active public education campaic-n. T he- active andi sustained participation of the
communities needs co be harnesse_ :-rouun motivation and organization.
House-to-house solid wvastie o ::on and street -idiness campaigns wvould be
encouraged to prevent indiscrirni.,a:e dumping of\vaste and litter in public
piaces.
,7.  Effective Land Use Planr.ni  an.d Mlanagement
On land use planning and management, there is a lack of adequate maos for
urban areas in the project towns. Wh nile there is a nation-wide (rural) land
information system in place. the scale is inappropriate for micro-planning
purposes. which is needed in urbanl areas. The project will assist in fuirther
developing GIS to meet this recuirernent. which will help the municipalities or
district towns in their land use plarning. The idea is to expand the GIS facilities
currentlv underwav for the two major cities of Thimphu and Phuntsholing. The
approval of the Bhutan Municipal Act of 1999 bv the 77i National .Assembl
provides the required legal status for the land use plans. The rules and
regulations of the Bhutan Municipai Act -will be applicable to all municipal
bodies, including those under the dzong.zhags.
S.   MIanazing Transportation N'eeds
With regards to transportation planning. the project towns are not vet suffering
from significant problems relating to traffic. The existing capacitv and
condition of urban roads is generailv adequate to accommodate the current
relativelv light levels oftraffic. No -najor increases in traffic volumes are
forecast for the near to medium term.
20



9.    %anaginig Industrial Develoomnents
The industrial sector is %veakly deveioped in the project towns. In Bumthang
there are some food processing industries. while the other towns have some
small-scale cotta-e industries onlv. While the pollution from these industries is
not a significant issue at the present :irne. attention is being paid to the subject
bv the NEC to ensure timelv managzement ot problems that mav arise.
10.   Conserving HistoricaL Cuiturai Heritage
Bhutan has a unique cultural hentave with many important historical and
relizious monuments. WVith increasing urbanization, it will be otCr>reater.
importance to ensure that this her.tage is not damaged or lost to unplanned and
unsate developments. The Bhutanese culture has a deep sense of commitment
towards preservin. its heritage rnd en-.ronment. For example. most of the
dzongs rernain in use as distric: hea_cuarers and monastic centers.
Conservation or'significant hertage iites. such as dzongs. will be gziven
increased attention to orooer lanrd _se and zonin- regzulation, and their
enrorcement.
V1. Environmental Management Plan
The above proposais for ;,-O'rovementsE mitigation and monitoring
actions are summar,zed in matnx :orn in the environmental management plan
(ENMP) below. The EM;lP is not to- n nor site-specific. but rather genenc in
nature and attempts to address the :--e of investments and interventions which
are proposed to be financed and initiated bv the project. The E.MSP first sets out
all zenerai actions recommended -or the planning desig-n. construction and
operationimaintenance of clvil wvorks ,or all sectors. Following the general
section. mitigation actions are s,et out which applv to specific sectors, such as
water supply. sanitation. etc.
Manv of the mitigation actions listed in the ENIP. especially those to be
carried out duning construction- would be incorporated in form of clauses into
the conditions of contract and sDecifications of the construction to be let for the
impiementation ot the works. The others. i.e. for planning and desigan would be
become part of the procedures of .he pianning.design agencies concemed, or
thev should be issued as "design mnstructions' to the ayencies or consultants
responsible for design work.  tirigation for the operation phase would be
incorporated into the guidelines. manuals and procedures for the operational
staff of the facilities concerned. Some will require action on the part of the local
administrations t LA). such as the promulgation of bvlaws or the enforcement of
existingr laws. rules and regulations. The environmental codes of practice for the
urban sector which will be prepared Ub D H-{D with NEC assistance. pnor to the
full implementation of the project. xill detail these actions for practical use and
application.
21



The E.MIP also proposes '.;ey mnonitoring indicators and assigns
responsibility for monitoring the indicators and the implementation of the
recommended mitigation actions. !Ionitoring should become part of the regular
routine operations of all urban infrastrucrure and services, especiallv during the
construction and operation phase. Good construction supervision is essential for
effective monitoring of mitigation actions. Re2ular and accurate reporting is
equally important. U-DHD should Liso engage the services of an environmental
specialist/consultant for periodic ex-:ernal monitoring of the E-MP
implementation.
22



