Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19913-BHU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.9 MILLION
(US$10.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
FORA
BHUTAN - URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 23, 1999
South Asia Regional Office



CUR-RENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Ngultrum
Nu 1= US$ 0.023
US$ 1 = Nu 43.57
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DYT           Dzongkhag Yargye Tshogchung
ECOP          Environmental Code of Practice
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
FMIS          Financial Management Information System
FC            Financial Consultant
FYP           Five Year Plan
GEF           Global Environment Fund
GYT           Gewog Yargye Tshogchung
MOC           Ministry of Communication
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NBACD         National Budget and Aid Coordination Division
NEC           National Environment Commission
NFS           National Finance Services
NTTA          National Technical Training Authority
OD            Operational Directive
O&M           Operation and maintenance
PC            Project Cell
PMR           Project Management Reports
RAA           Royal Audit Authority
RCSC          Royal Civil Service Commission
RGoB          Royal Government of Bhutan
R&R           Resettlement and Rehabilitation
SA            Social Assessment
SEA           Sector Environment Assessment
SEP           Second Education Project
SFO           Senior Finance Officer
UDHD          Urban Development and Housing Division
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country ManageriDirector:   John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Frannie A. Leautier
Task Team Leader/Task M\anager:   Evangeline Kim Cuenco



BHUTAN
Urban Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      5
3. Benefits and target population                                                     5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                           9
2. Financial                                                                          9
3. Technical                                                                         10
4. Institutional                                                                     10
5. Social                                                                            11
6. Environmental assessment                                                          12
7. Participatory approach                                                            12
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    13
2. Critical risks                                                                    13
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    14



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           14
2. Other                                                                              14
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         14
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          15
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    18
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         22
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Sumrnary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          23
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               26
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       30
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule,                                                    39
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            43
MAP(S)
IBRD 28474



BHUTAN
Bhutan - Urban Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASIN
Date: November 3, 1999                            Team Leader: Evangeline Kim Cuenco
Country Manager/Director: John W. Wall            Sector Manager/Director: Frannie A. Leautier
Project ID: P057570                               Sector(s): UY - Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): URBAN
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          1 Credit        El Grant        E Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m) 10.8
Proposed Terms: El To be defined  1 Multicurrency C] Single currency
L Standard Variable 1 Fixed         O LIBOR-based
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5
Govermnent                                                      0.84           0.59           1.43
IBRD
IDA                                                             1.82           8.98          10.80
Total:                                                          2.66           9.57          12.23
Borrower: ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN
Responsible agency:
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS
Other Agency(ies):
Urban Development and Housing Division, Ministry of Communications
Address: Thimphu, Bhutan
Contact Person: Tshering Dorji, Joint Secretary, UDHD
Tel: 975-23-23416                Fax: 975-23-23441                 Email: dorjit@druknet.net.bt
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
=2                                 a
Annual     0.1           2.4          3.3        3.0         1.7          0.3
Cumulative     0.1          2.5          5.8         8.8        10.5        10.8
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD F-,, Otb.S.9 j



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of life through enhancement of the level and
coverage of basic urban services in selected secondary towns of Bhutan, and, to that end: (a) to strengthen
the financial and institutional capacity of the responsible authorities to deliver such services; and (b) to
finance high priority investments in suc]h services for which there is broad public support. This objective
reflects the Royal Government of Bhutan's (RGoB) policy of balanced regional development and
decentralization, and its dedication to environmentally sustainable development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The ID component will strengthen the capacity of the Urban Development and Housing Division
(UDHD) of the Ministry of CommunicaLtions, and the project towns (dzongkhag towns) in: (a) urban
planning, land use management and malpping; (b) planning and implementation of urban development
investments, focusing on adequate operation and maintenance (O&M); and (c) project management and
monitoring within the UDHD and project towns. Success will be measured in terms of: (a) the
development of well planned and livable district centers, designed with respect for the local cultural
context; (b) improved O&M of urban development investments, supported by adequately trained staff and
equipment; and (c) improvement in the lprocurement and financial management capacity of the UDHD and
project towns.
The Urban Development component will increase access by a larger number of inhabitants to safe
and reliable water supply and sanitation. Performance indicators will include: for water supply, percent of
households with access to safe piped water supply; for solid waste management, percent of waste collected
and disposed appropriately; for sanitation, number of rehabilitated/new community latrines); and for access
roads and stormwater drains (length of access roads and drains built and maintained). Specific indicators
for each sub-component are provided in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: P6016-BHU                             Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/06/93
The last CAS was prepared in FY94. A CAS Progress Report will be presented alongside this
Credit, reflecting developments in Bhutan and its relationship with the World Bank. This project supports
the Government objective, reflected in the CAS Progress Report, of carefully planned growth of secondary
towns, with special attention to hygiene and amenity values. It also supports the objective of encouraging
beneficiary and community ownership through decentralization, community participation in urban planning
and development, and the selective use of user fees to provide partial cost-recovery.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Bhutan's development has been rapid and broadly shared. Up until the 1950s Bhutan was isolated
from the rest of the world, and its dispersed rural population was entirely dependent upon subsistence
agriculture. Once it opened up to the outside world in the 1 960s, Bhutan embarked upon a far reaching
development strategy that has been articulated in successive five-year plans, the latest being the Eighth Plan
covering the period 1997-2002. On the basis of the development strategy articulated in these five-year
plans, Bhutan has developed a physical infrastructure of roads, power supply, telecommunications, and
water supply that now serves a growing share of the population. At the same time the Government has
developed a social infrastructure of education and health services which have, despite the difficult terrain
and scattered population, greatly improved access to education and health services. The Government's
strategy in every sector is guided by its Vision Statement "Bhutan 2020: A Vision for Peace, Prosperity
and Happiness" which seeks a "cautious interpretation of modernization". The Vision Statement puts
human happiness, not economic growth, at the center of the nation's vision and values, and calibrates the
ambitions of development policy to Bhutan's ability to absorb change without creating alienation and
excessive inequality:
"Our guiding principles for the future development of our nation and for the safeguarding
of our sovereignty and security as a nation-state must be complemented by a single
unifying concept of development,...the distinctively Bhutanese concept of Gross National
Happiness.. .The concept places the individual at the center of all development efforts and
it recognizes that the individual has material, spiritual and emotional needs. It asserts that
development cannot and should not be defined exclusively in material terms. ... The
concept of Gross National Happiness must be translated into objectives that are able to
give direction to the Kingdom's long-term development.. .These objectives are: human
development; culture and heritage; balanced and equitable development; governance; and
environmental conservation."
The goals of balanced and equitable development are reflected in the urban development
strategy, which aims to ensure viable and sustainable urban growth outside the now
rapidly growing commercial centers of Thimphu and Phuntsholing. The Government aims
to ensure that the secondary towns grow in a well-planned manner into livable district
centers.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Through a program of institutional development and support for high priority investments in
secondary towns, the project addresses the following sector issues:
*   Urgent need for basic services through the implementation of the physical investment program in
the project;
*   Weak local government institutions through the provision of technical assistance to improve the
institutional and financial management capacity of participating municipalities;
*  Neglect of operations and maintenance (O&M) aspects of infrastructure services by focusing on
rehabilitation, and provision of technical assistance towards maintenance activities; and
*   Improved sustainability to service provision through the involvement of the community and other
stakeholders in the planning, implementation, and O&M of these services.
- 3 -



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project covers ten district towns, namely: Wangdue Phodrang, Trongsa, Zhemgang, Tingtibi,
Bumthang, Lhuentse, Trashi Yangtse, Duksum, Rangjung and Paro. Of the ten towns, the higher priority
towns are: Paro, Trongsa, Zhemgang, Lhuentse, Trashi Yangtse, Rangjung, Wangdue Phodrang and
Bumthang. Although Tingtibi and Duksum have remained in the list of towns, they have been accorded
lesser priority due to either the slow pace of development (Tingtibi) or the very small urban population
(Duksum).
The project has two major components: (a) institutional development and (b) urban development.
Institutional Development (ID): The ID component will strengthen the capacity of the UDHD, and the
project towns in: (a) urban planning, landl use management and mapping; (b) planning and implementation
of urban development investments, focusing on adequate O&M; and (c) project management and
monitoring within the UDHD and project towns. Under the ID component, support will also be provided to
the National Environmental Commission (NEC) for the development of environmental guidelines for the
urban sector; and UDHD, for environmental codes of practice (ECOP) for solid waste management.
Urban Development (UD): The second component of the project will consist of the following:
Water Supply and Chlorinatioin Equipment: Water supply investments are confined mainly to
the rehabilitation and augmentation of existing systems and construction of some new schemes.
Solid Waste Collection: All project towns will benefit from the solid waste management program
under project. The program also includes public information campaign and comprehensive programs of
training for waste management personnel (refer to ID Component, section (a) above)
Sanitation: The program includes construction and rehabilitation of public toilet blocks, and
regular emptying of septic tanks. There will be no sewerage installations since all the towns are very small,
and many of the developments are yet to be started.
Urban Infrastructure: This will consist of drains, urban roads, and civic facilities.
Institutional Development          Institutional        1.60       13.1      1.60      14.8
Development
Urban Development                  Other Urban         10.63      86.9       9.20      85.2
Development
Total Project Costs                   12.23      100.0      10.80     100.0
Total Financing Required                    12.23      100.0     10.80      100.0
-4 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The RGoB has committed itself to the goals of decentralization, and balanced and equitable
development. An important step in this direction has been the introduction of local government autonomy at
the city level, initially applying only to the Thimphu City Corporation (TCC), and to a lesser extent, to the
Phuntsholing City Corporation (PCC). The National Assembly recently approved the Bhutan Municipal
Act which provides a further degree of autonomy, which is planned to be extended to PCC. The Act also
provides for the establishment of autonomous corporations in other towns over time. By supporting
development in secondary towns, the project reflects the government's commitment to decentralization and
balanced regional development.
3. Benefits and target population:
Direct Benefits: The main expected benefits of the project are two-fold: improved institutional
capacity; and improved levels of service to urban populations in participating towns. Improved
institutional capacity would be achieved by the development of project management capacity at the
UDHD/MOC and improved O&M capacity at the district level. Improved service delivery would be
achieved through more efficient delivery of urban services, improved coverage and enhancement of
sustainable development. The project would also assist NEC in developing environmental guidelines for the
urban sector, and UDHD, for ECOP in solid waste management.
Economy-wide benefits: These would include : (a) enhanced resource generation, with a
consequent reduced dependency on government transfers through the introduction of user fees with
metering; (b) contributing to improved financial, managerial and institutional capacity and enhanced
performance by municipalities; and (c) incrementally improved environment, health and productivity in
urban populations with consequent savings in health care costs. These benefits would result in increased
tax and revenue collection and savings; and demonstrated management practices and institutional
processes, which can contribute to overall improvements in governance.
Beneficiaries: The principal direct beneficiaries of the project are: (a) the residents of the
participating towns who would receive improved infrastructure services; (b) staff at both the UDHD/MOC
and district level; and (c) NEC.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation agency will be the UDHD at the MOC. The linkage between the staff of the
UDHD and Dzongkhag will be strengthened during project implementation. Execution of civil works will
be through private contractors according to IDA procurement guidelines.
A Project Cell (PC) under a Project Manager within the UDHD will coordinate urban planning and
development, engineering design and contractor procurement activities, establish the monitoring and
evaluation system for the project, supervise the studies, coordinate inter-Dzongkhag coordination activities,
and liaise with NEC on the development of the urban environmental guidelines and codes of practice.The
Project Manager will be assisted by deputy project manager, a Chief Technical Expert (CTE), a Senior
Finance Officer and Project Accountant, a Financial Consultant to introduce the financial reporting system
consistent with IDA requirements, and a Procurement Specialist. In addition, there will be a full-time site
construction supervisor in each of the project town. The operation and maintenance unit in the Dzongkhag
administration will be concurrently strengthened to assume greater responsibilities for urban works
- 5 -



implementation and O&M. The proposed project will support these efforts. Development and
implementation of the institutional development and training component of the project would be closely
coordinated with the Royal Civil Service Commission (RCSC) and the National Technical Training
Authority (NTTA).
Financial Management Arrangement: (See Annex SA for details)
The RGoB would pass on the budgeted funds for capital expenditure to the UDHD through the
Letter of Credit (LC) system in accordance with the normal formula in which assistance is passed on to
various ministries and dzongkhags. The PC would route the requisitions for funds through the UDHD in
Thimphu. Initially, the project will follo w traditional disbursement method and will switch to PMR-based
disbursement over a period of time. It has been agreed with MOC and Ministry of Finance (MOF)
that PMR-based disbursements will be 42dopted not later than July 1, 2001. Books of accounts for the
project would be maintained as per RGoB rules prescribed in the Financial Manual, 1988. A separate
cash book and general ledger will be maintained by each project town for project related transactions.
From the commencement of the Project, simplified PMR's would be generated from the project accounts
and submitted to IDA within 45 days of the end of each quarter for IDA's review. As and when the
project graduates to PMR-based disbursements, the PC would arrange to submit all the PMR's (as per
format agreed during the negotiation) and the disbursements will be based on these quarterly PMR's. The
Accounts of the Project will be audited every year by the Royal Audit Authority (RAA) as per RGoB
rules. However, the RAA will have the ciption to contract out annual audit to private sector auditors (who
should be qualified chartered accountants acceptable to IDA). The annual project financial statements
audited by the RAA/private sector auditors would be submifted to IDA within 6 months of the close
of RGoB 's fiscal year. MOF and MOC would ensure that a Financial Consultant (a professional
accountant with knowledge of computerized accounting) is recruited by March 31, 2000 to oversee
projectfinancial management. MOF will ensure that the implementing units would have sufficient
number of finance staff to carry out various routine activities. After reviewing the available products in
the market, MOF and MOC would adoplt a computerized Project Accounting and Management
System software most suited to Bhutan 's needs by June 30, 2000.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several alternatives were considered for the project design. The first would be to invest in Thimphu
and Phuntsholing which are experiencing the fastest rate of urbanization. This was rejected given the
existing concentration of development assistance in these two cities, and the clear need to broaden
assistance to other district centers to support the Government's policy of more balanced regional
development.
The second alternative was for a technical assistance project. This would consist of establishing
full institutional and legal framework, including land management, municipal finance, and human
settlements policy; training, in-service and external; and introduction and strengthening of degree programs
in existing training institutions. The project could be prepared rapidly and would have the benefit of
reducing manpower shortages in subsequent investments. This was rejected because DANIDA, ADB and
UNDP are already providing assistance in these areas.
-6 -



The third alternative would be assistance in a specific sector (e.g., water supply) only. Activities
would include investments in one sector or sub-sector in several district towns and strengthening of
regulatory frameworks, tariff structures and results assessment at the central level. This alternative was
rejected because a sectoral focus does not address broader urban development issues.
The fourth and last alternative would be to strengthen the management of development in selected
districts through investment programs directed by the communities. The components would include
creation of a fund for investments--with clear eligibility criteria for sub-projects--for which district can
participate and compete for. This alternative was rejected because of weak local capacity to prepare
sub-projects.
Given the above, the strategic choice was made to design a project which combined both TA and
investment in high priority areas in selected urban centers outside Thimphu and Phuntsholing.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Proiect                  (PSR) Ratings:
______________________________ _____e____i___.____.___ (Banklvnanced projiecs only)
implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
This is the Bank's first urban
development project in Bhutan.
Other development agencies
DANIDA                             Water Supply Consolidation
and Sewerage Project in
Thimphu and Phuntsholing
(completed in March 1997)
DANIDA                             Urban Sector Program Support
(started in January 1999)
ADB                                Urban Infrastructure
Improvement Project: Thimphu
and Phuntsholing (negotiated
1999)
ADB                                Urban Centres Water Supply
and Sanitation Project
(completed in 1992)
UNDP                               Urban Development and
Housing Technology
(completed in 1989)
UNDP                               Strengthening the Survey
Department
UNDP                               Urban Planning (completed in
1989)
UNDP                               Human Resource Development
- 7-



UNDP                              Human Settlements Sector
Review (Reports 1990, 1993
and 1996)
UNDP                              Strengthening Capacity for
Urban Management and Human
Settlements Sector Planning in
Thimphu and Phuntsholing
(completed in February 1999)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This would be the first World Bank-assisted urban development project in Bhutan. However, Bank
experience with project implementation has been excellent, on account of very strong government
ownership and commitment to effective project implementation, and good collaboration with co-financiers,
notably the Swiss Development Corporation. The portfolio currently consists of two projects, the third
Forestry Credit, for which implementation remains satisfactory, and the Second Education Project. The
recently closed First Education Project and GEF Environment Trust Fund were also fully satisfactory,
although the education project had to be extended by 18 months because of delays in school construction
during the project's first few years. Both projects met or surpassed their major benchmarks, with the
exception of teacher training candidates on account of a shortage of applicants up to 1994. The
Environment Trust Fund even met its conservation benchmarks in three years rather than the anticipated
five.
There are also lessons to be learned from urban projects in countries experiencing a similar low
level of urbanization and weak institutional capacity. These are the need to: (a) keep the project simple in
terms of design, scope and institutional arrangements; (b) emphasize the importance of combining capacity
building and investments; and (c) set out modest goals which can be achieved within existing constraints.
These have been considered in the design of the project.
The experience from the DANIDA water supply and sanitation project in Thimphu and
Phuntsholing demonstrates the feasibility of cost recovery for O&M in water supply. These projects
introduced meters, a good pricing structure, and most important, separate water accounts so that the little
subsidy given is not hidden. This sets an important precedent for other urban centers.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The RGoB has identified urban development as a priority area in its long-term development
strategy. It is introducing changes in the legislative framework that would support urban planning and
management at the national and district levels. The Bhutan Municipal Act was recently passed and RGoB
is developing a separate Urban Administration Act. A draft Urban Planning Act has been completed. On
cost recovery, metering has been introduced in Thimphu, Phuntsholing, Paro, Gelephu and Samdrup
Jongkar, setting an important precedent for other cities. The RGoB recognizes that water tariffs need to
cover O&M and capital replacement and meet all debt servicing requirements satisfactorily. There is a
recognition that tariffs in Thimphu and Phuntsholing need to be increased to provide sufficient revenues for
medium and long-term sustainability. Metering has been introduced in these towns. For the project, RGoB
would like to install meters progressively in all houses and commercial buildings once the water supply
delivery has been demonstrated as satisfactory. Progress in this objective would be monitored in terms of
percent of household metered and percent of O&M cost recovered over time.
- 8 -



At the district level, district administrators of all ten project towns have indicated their full support
to introduce appropriate tariffs and charges for the proposed water supply, solid waste and sanitation
improvements. District administrators have assisted fully in the project preparation field surveys as well as
in the formulation of urban development plans and investment programs.
RGoB and Dzongkhag administrations have also demonstrated their commitment by participating
in several workshops to launch and discuss the findings of the preparatory studies.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA brings to bear a comprehensive view of sector development, a strategic focus, and the lessons
of experience in implementing sector wide projects throughout the world. IDA's role is crucial in achieving
the project objectives of strengthening the institutional structure at the district level thereby supporting the
Government's decentralization policy and implementation of the newly passed Municipal Act, and
addressing the much needed urban services in district towns.
The Bank's involvement would also reinforce the efforts of bilateral and other multilateral agencies.
This is particularly in relation to the importance of building institutional capacity at the district level, and to
ensuring medium- and long-term sustainability through a realistic cost-recovery policy. This project
represents a potential model which could be implemented at a later date in other urban centers in Bhutan
facing similar urban environmental problems and pressures, as experienced in the selected project towns.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
D Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 20.7 %
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The proposed project would support the RGoB's decentralization policy and improve urban service
provision in selected municipalities. The investments will result in substantial direct and indirect benefits,
including improved urban environment, better health from cleaner water and better sanitation; reduced
household cost of fetching water; and higher tourism income through improved municipal conditions and
services.The quantifiable incremental economic benefits are: (a) time savings from not having to fetch
water; (b) health cost savings (drugs and hospital care); and (c) incremental tourism revenues.
Willingness-to-pay estimates -- obtained from social surveys in each project town -- were undertaken for:
(a) improved water services, (b) improved solid waste (garbage) services, and (c) improved sanitation. The
overall EIRR is 20.7%. The FIRR for the water supply components is 11.2%, with individual water supply
scheme FIRRs varying from 0.3% (Duksum) to 19.6% (Paro). The major assumptions are: (a) project life
of 20 years; (b) FIRRs are based on water user charges, but exclude land taxes, urban surcharges etc.; (c)
the capital charge is 2.75% of total water supply capital cost, amortized over 15 years; (d) the O&M costs
are 3% p.a. of all project costs, less the institutional support component. The after 20 years residual value
is 40% of all capital costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
The total project cost is estimated at US$12.23 million equivalent to finance infrastructure
investments and technical assistance for institutional development. The cost of the project is expected to be
financed from an IDA Credit of $10.8 million, with the remaining amount to be financed by RGoB.
- 9-



Fiscal Impact:
The overall burden on government finances as a result of the project would be small. As most of
the funding would be made as a grant to municipalities, debt service impacts on municipalities would be
small. Implementation of the project would increase urban productvity, introduce fiscal discipline, improve
public sector resource allocation and strengthen the capacity of local government to prepare, finance, and
implement a program of urban improvements. The net fiscal impact of these improvements is expected to
substantially outweigh project investments.
Financial Management:
The National Budget and Aid Coordination Division (NBACD) of the Ministry of Finance, which
handles the foreign currency special account is familiar with World Bank disbursement procedures since
they have been satisfactorily managing several on-going projects in the country. Therefore, there would be
no problem in commencing the project using the traditional mode of disbursements. During appraisal, the
financial system of the UDHD in MOC was reviewed to identify the type of external support required by
the departmental accounting staff for the phased introduction of disbursements based on Project
Management Reports (PMRs). On the basis of the review, a suitable time frame has been agreed with
UDHD and MOF to fill in the gaps identified in the proposed review to graduate to PMR-based
disbursements in a phased manner. It has been agreed with MOC and MOF that PMR-based
disbursements will be adopted not later than July 1, 2001. Annex 5 details the proposed financial
management arrangements and the plan of action, The project will provide a TA component to meet the
costs of consultant(s) salaries, accounting software, computers, training, etc., to build up UDHD's financial
management capacity.
3. Technical:
Special effort will also be taken to ensure that urban design considerations in the urban
development plans give due attention to the unique cultural features of the built environment.
The design of the proposed civil works must be appropriate to the conditions in the individual ten
towns and to the existing capacity for O&M which will be enhanced under the project. To suit the local
situation, the project will support simple systems which are easy to operate and maintain and require little
mechanical and electrical equipment and chemicals.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The MOC is in charge of urban affairs. The UDHD in the MOC is responsible for urban development and
management as regards infrastructure provision and operation, planning aspects, and coordination with
sector ministries as regards social and economic development. The Ministries of Finance and Home Affairs
are other important ministries involved in urban development.
The local government structure comprises 20 districts (Dzongkhags) and 202 blocks (Gewog)
being the lowest level of administration. The district administrations are headed by an appointed district
administrator (Dzongdhag). The latter is assisted by a deputy district administrator and by sectoral
representatives of the central ministries. The larger districts are divided into subdivisions (Drungkhag)
headed by a Dungpa. The Dzongdhag is also the head of the district town. The responsibilities of the
-1 0 -



Dzongkhag and DYT include the preparation of 5-year plans, annual plans, and execution of the same, and
the monitoring and review of programs in the Dzongkhag level. Within this framework, the proposed
project execution arrangements for the project will be the UIDHD under the MOC with district level
implementation of works.
b. Project management:
For the planning, coordination, monitoring, and supervision of all project components, UDHD has
designated the Executive Engineer as the Project Manager of the Project Cell/UDHD in Thimphu. He will
coordinate engineering design and contractor procurement activities, oversee project disbursement and
accounts, manage the development and implementation of training programs in coordination with existing
training institutions, establish monitoring and evaluation system for the project, supervise studies, and
coordinate the inter-district activities. The Project Manager will be assisted by a full-time deputy project
manager, a Chief Technical Expert, a Senior Finance Officer, project accountant, and Financial Consultant
in introducing the financial reporting system consistent with IDA requirements, a procurement specialist,
and construction site engineers in the project towns.
5. Social:
The proposed investments in basic infrastructure services will have direct and positive benefits on
the social and physical environment, in a sustainable manner for the ten urban centers of Bhutan. The
proposed high priority investments will provide improvements to the safe drinking water, sanitation
facilities, solid waste management and road and transport system. These improvements in basic urban
services will translate into wider social and environmental benefits over the life of the project.
As part of the project preparation study, a social assessment (SA) was carried out to find out the
potential beneficiaries: (a) preferences and priorities for basic services; (b) willingness and affordability to
pay for the improved services; and, (c) undertake land requirement assessment to determine the likely
adverse impacts. Household surveys were carried out among the 600 families of domestic and commercial
users. In addition, consultations were held with the representatives of bulk users of the services such as
schools, hospitals, monk bodies, army, hotel, police, etc. to assess the needs and priorities as well as their
willingness and affordability to pay for the improved services. The SA indicated a positive response from
the potential beneficiaries and other stakeholders towards the proposed project. The outcome of SA
revealed that the: (a) first priority for urban environment upgrading was the provision of improvements to
water services followed by solid waste disposal services; (b) generally high willingness to pay for private
water supply connections, solid waste collection services, and improved sanitation system; and, (c) the need
for greater public health education, and awareness program for promoting cleanliness, personal hygiene and
health conditions. The project has been designed to reflect the needs and views expressed by the potential
beneficiaries as expressed in the social assessment.
Social Safeguard Policies
Keeping the Bank's social safeguard policies in view, a land requirement assessment was carried
out to assess the likely requirement of land for various proposed physical investments and its associated
adverse impacts. The assessment indicate that the total land required for all physical components is only
about 7.5 acres and most of the sites for the proposed activities have been identified within the government
owned lands free from any encumbrances. Only a small portion of land will be acquired from 11 private
land owners who will loose only part of their total land holding. Thus the adverse social impacts are very
minimal. In order to compensate the losses suffered by the land owners and assist the adversely affected
persons, RGOB had prepared a "Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement" consistent with
the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. The Policy Framework has been reviewed by the Bank
- 11 -



and found to be satisfactory. The Framework has been adopted by the MOC. RGoB will undertake the
baseline socio-economic survey among the adversely affected families to record the baseline
socio-economic characteristics including the details of assets owned and lost to the project. Based on the
survey results, an action plan will be prepared outlining the details of compensation payment and assistance
to be extended to affected families in accordance with the provisions outlined in the policy framework. The
policy framework ensures the payment of compensation and assistance to all adversely affected persons
prior to the start of civil works. This will be ensured by a mechanism, wherein the concerned Dzongkhag
and UDHD/MOC has to certify prior to the award of each contract package that "the payment of
compensation and R&R assistance to all affected persons has been completed".
The Land requirement assessment did not reveal any risk of damage or destruction to any form of
cultural properties (Cultural Property - OPN 11.03). Further, the potential beneficiaries or affected persons
of the proposed land acquisition are not a separate indigenous group in the sense that they do not have any
separate social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society (OD 4.30 On Indigenous Peoples).
Therefore, it is concluded that preparation of separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (IPDPs) and
separate measures for protecting cultural properties may not be required.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: B
The project would have an overall positive impact on the environment. It is placed in category B.
Bhutan is a country seriously committed to protecting and preserving its environment, and has an
adequate legal and institutional framework for sound environmental management. The NEC has adequate
and increasing capacity to manage and mnonitor, and the environmental assessment process -- which meets
IDA requirements -- has been approved and made effective by NEC in February 1999. The overall
philosophy of RGoB towards sustainable development and environment, is detailed by NEC in the
"National Environmental Strategy, December 1998". In this strategy, the Government has stated in the
strongest possible terms that protecting the natural environment and ensuring that development activities
undertaken in the Kingdom must be done: in a suitable and environmentally sensitive manner.
Currently, there are no guidelines for the urban sector and NEC is in the process of developing
these; the project will assist NEC in this endeavor. It will also assist the UDHD to formulate
environmental codes of practices in solid waste management. These ECOPs will recognize that the
majority of environmental impacts occur during the operation and maintenance stage. These ECOPs will be
consistent with the relevant rules/acts such as the recently approved municipal act, water and sanitation
rules (the Municipal Corporation of Thirnphu is currently developing performance indicators), land use act,
etc.
A Sector Environment Assessmernt (SEA), carried out during project preparation by the UTDHD with
assistance from NEC, clearly indicates that the improvements in urban infrastructure have positive effects
in environmental conditions in the project towns, particularly as they relate to water supply and sanitation.
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for all project activities, which forms part of the SEA,
ensures that any minor negative impacts during implementation or operation will be adequately mitigated.
Responsibilities and indicators for mitigation and monitoring are also set out in the EMP.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
- 12 -



The proposed project reflects RGoB's thrust to involve communities in planning, implementation
and management of all development projects. The Social and Environmental assessments served usefully to
inform the communities about the project, identify investment priorities, and elicit their views on
willingness-to-pay for improved services.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability relates to continued commitment to decentralization, use of appropriate
technologies in the provision/rehabilitation of urban infrastructure, and enhanced institutional capacity
developed under the project. By focusing on O&M under the institutional development component, the
project will assist the project towns to execute planned maintenance in accordance with district plans and to
better use limited resources. Appropriate technology and community participation promoted under the
project will help facilitate local participation by project beneficiaries in project implementation, promote
cost recovery and proper O&M.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating       -Risk Mlnimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continuing commitment from RGoB         N         Continuing dialogue with RGoB on
(MOC, MOF and Ministry of Home                    policy issues relating to urban
Affairs) and District Administrations to          development
policy of balanced regional development
Adequacy of trained personel at the     M         Designation of project manager and
UDHD and district engineering cells               agreement with RGoB to deploy staff
for project implementation and hiring
consultants as needed; training of staff
Community groups are properly           M         Informed community consultations;
motivated to contribute to cost-sharing           agreement with Government on cost
arrangement to cover O&M                          recovery guidelines
From Components to Outputs
Continued government commitment to      N         Continuing policy dialogue with
policy of decentralization                        Government and selected towns
Overall Risk Rating                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 13 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Borrower shall ensure that any land required for the Project will be acquired, and any persons affected
by the acquisition of such land will be compensated, resettled and/or rehabilitated, all in accordance with
the provisions of the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement.
Dated Covenants:
The Borrower will appoint a Chief Technical Expert (not later that March 31, 2000); a Financial
Consultant (a professional accountant with knowledge of computerized accounting) (not later than March
31, 2000) to introduce a financial reporting system for UDHD consistent with IDA requirements; a
Procurement Specialist (not later than March 31, 2000); and (f) a full-time construction supervisor in each
Project town (not later than June 30, 2000).
The Borrower shall adopt PMR-based disbursement procedures not later than July 1, 2001.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
I2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O] 4. The following items are lacking ancl are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policiies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
v/.X>,                                                   A
Evangeline Kim Cuenco         /AiFrannie A. Leautier               John W. Wall
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country ManagerlDirector
- 14 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
Key PeEormaic-;
'iterarch r&bjectives            indkalorO M                    & a        on.  i-               t
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To improve access to basic    Full government support to   5-year Development Plan  Infrastructure constraints
infrastructure where       the Development Plan                                 removed to support poverty
economically justified, and                           Economic and sector reports  alleviation in the project
strengthen institutional                                                         districts
capacity in theUDHD and
Dzongkhags                                                                       Complementary investments
take place to support
infrastructure developments
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The objective of the Project is Extent of satisfaction with    UDHD progress reports  Continuation of Government's
to improve the quality of life  urban service delivery                           emphasis on urban
through enhancement of the   expressed by citizen     Supervision mission reports  development
level and coverage of basic   respondents to representative
urban services in selected  survey or social assessment   Evaluation mission reports    Continuation of the
secondary towns of Bhutan,                           (mid-term and final)        Government's decentralization
and, to that end: (a) to   Public health - morbidity rates                      initiative
strengthen the financial and   of water borne diseases  Consultant studies and reports
institutional capacity of the                                                    Ability to plan and execute
responsible authorities to  Improved capacity of project                         sub-projects to improve urban
deliver such services; and (b)  towns in fulfiling essential                    service delivery
to finance high priority   urban service responsibilities
investments in such services
for which there is broad public
support.
- 15 -



H@obj=  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,q1
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Enhanced UDHD/municipal  Percent of municipal and   UDHD progress reports,    Continuing commitment from
capacity in project towns to   UDHD staff trained in  mid-term review evaluation,  RGoB and District
plan, implement and operate  financial management,  ICR, OED end of project    Administrations to policy of
and maintain basic services   budgeting and accounting    evaluation          decentralization and balanced
systems, and procurement                            regional development
procedures
Other projects in Bhutan
Percent of municiipal staff                         contributing to the same
trained in the following                            development objectives with
technical areas (land use                           similar outputs
planning/management,
O&M)                                                Community groups are
properly motivated to
Percent of O&M cost                                contribute to cost-sharing
recovered from metering                             arrangement to cover O&M
Improved urban services in   Percent of households with
project towns             access to safe piped water
supply
Percent of domestic waste
water disposed properly
Percent of solid waste
collected and disposed
properly
No. of community toilets
built and rehabilitated; and
regular emptying of individual
septic tanks
Length of urban roads built or
rehabilitated
Percent of civil works
completed (e.g., length of
footpaths, streetlighting,
market sheds and parking
improved, community parks
constructed/improved, bus
terminals
constructed/rehabilitated,
erosion control works in
selected towns)
- 16 -



Key Perormnco,
Hierarch  of Objctives    ncilcators         Moniitprln &  vkain          Crt2  ~       Ii
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
a. Institutional           $1.6 million              Same as above              Timely counterpart funds
Development                                                                   available as planned;
procurement actions are
streamlined and timely;
adequate staff continuity
within UDHD
b. Urban                   $10.6 million
infrastructure
investments and
services
(See Annex 2 for detailed
project description).
- 17 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BHUTAN: Bhuitan - Urban Development Project
The project will be implemented in ten district towns namely: Wangdue Phodrang, Trongsa,
Zhemgang, Tingtibi, Bumthang, Lhuentse, Trashi Yangtse, Duksum, Rangjung and Paro. Of the 10 towns,
the higher priority towns are: Paro, Trongsa, Zhemgang, Lhuentse, Trashi Yangtse, Rangjung, Wangdue
Phodrang and Bumthang. Although Tingtibi and Duksum have remained in the list of towns, they have
been accorded lesser priority due to either the slow pace of development (Tingtibi) or very small urban
population (Duksum) both at present and the future.
The Project consists of two components: (a) Institutional Development and (b) Urban
Development.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.60 million
Institutional Development: The ID component will strengthen the capacity of the UDHD, and the project
towns in: (a) urban planning, land use management and mapping; (b) planning and implementation of urban
development investments, focusing on adequate O&M; and (c) project management and monitoring within
the UJDHD and project towns. Under the ID component, support will also be provided to the National
Environmental Commission (NEC) for the development of environmental guidelines for the urban sector,
and to UDHD for ECOP in solid waste management.
Project management support to the Project Cell and project towns will be in the form of consultants
and equipment. The consultants recruited shiall be both international and regional/local experts to support
required specific areas where existing capacities are limited. They will assist the Project Manager and each
of the ten project towns to supervise construction works. In particular, the Project Manager will be assisted
by a Chief Technical Officer, a Financial Consultant, and a Procurement Specialist in the management of
the project. In addition other specialized specific short international inputs will be made available during
the project implementation. The inputs are for: (i) erosion control measures; (ii) development of
billing,collection and accounting systems;(iii) training; (iv) urban design, planning, mapping, etc.
Chief Technical Expert
The main tasks will be to provide assistance in the overall management of the project and to ensure
that technical standards with regard to design, tender documentation and physical work implementation are
adequately achieved. In addition, the consultant will:
monitor the performance of construction site supervisors and the construction quality
check quality of tender documentation and assist in the evaluation of tenders and award of
contracts
provide advice to Project Manager in the development of suitable computer software applications
for project monitoring, technically and financially
assist in the preparation of proper O&M work plans for the facilities constructed
assist and advise on training programs for UDHD and district O&M staff
participate in field trips for construction supervision and quality monitoring
assist in data collection for monitoring construction progress and for monthly reporting.
- 18 -



assist in the preparation of monthly and quarterly reports to World Bank and Government and the
project completion report.
Financial Consultant
The consultant will be a professional accountant knowledgeable in computerized accounting..
He/she would be responsible for: (a) all aspects of project financial management; (b) guiding and
assisting the project accounting staff in consolidation of project accounts at the national level; (c)
coordinating preparation of PMRs for the World Bank and other stakeholders; and (d) fmancial planning
and management of the project including financial forecasting. The FC would be located in the PC and
would also work closely with the Project ManagerDirector and the project accounting staff. Apart from
providing support on financial accounting, and reporting aspects of the project, the FC would also
interact with various field offices, RAA and/or the private sector auditors, as necessary.
Procurement Management Specialist
The Consultant will have an engineering background and not less than ten years of experience in
procurement. He/she will assist in monitoring and providing guidance on procurement to UDHD and the
project towns.
Construction Site Engineers
Construction site engineers will be recruited for each of the ten project towns to supervise
construction works. These engineers should have at least 5 years' experience in the design and
implementation of water and urban works. The main task of the site engineers is to make sure that works
constructed are in accordance with the tender drawings and specifications. In detail, he would:
*     participate and record all results for pipeline and concrete testing
*     check all materials used in the construction for compliance with the specifications
check that constructions and steel reinforcement are in accordance with drawings
monitor construction progress
participate in measuring completed works for program payments
make on-site decisions for urgently required changes in construction
*     check the contractors' bills for progress payments
prepare monthly progress reports
prepare as-built drawings of works completed
*     liaise with district authorities
To ensure adequate O&M, in addition to trained staff, the project also provides in the physical contingency
allowance for adequate supply of spares and replacement to be brought in with the original equipment,
stored in a central area for safe keeping. This also applies to the common set of O&M equipment to be
shared by project towns. Said equipment should be stored safely, with its use and maintenance being the
responsibility of the district engineer assigned for urban civil works in the designated storage location.
Urban Planning:
For all the ten towns, the rapid assessment of existing and projected urban land uses and
demographic trend has been completed. Based on this information schematic land use plans were prepared
- 19 -



sufficient to guide the implementation of the high priority infrastructure investments. The schematic land
use plans have identified the optimal future land use patterns and primary networks with sufficient certainty
to design the water supply, drainage, solid waste management, and other infrastructure activities.
During the implementation of the project, more detailed and comprehensive urban development
plans would be prepared as necessary. This will include the specification of geographical scope, date
requirements, planning information systems, required plan components, cartographic and other essential
outputs of the urban planning process. Further detailed planning under the loan project will be based on
schematic land use plans from the project preparation study completed by the consultants.
Assistance to the NEC
The NEC is presently developing environmental guidelines for the urban sector. The Project's ID
component will support this endeavor through the provision of consultancy support.
Project Component 2 - US$10.63 million
Urban Development: This component will consist of the following subcomponents:
(a)    Water Supply and Chlorination: 'Water supply investments are confined mainly to the
rehabilitation and augmentation of existing systems and construction of some new schemes. The water
supply program will apply to all the project towns.
(b)    Solid Waste Collection: All project towns would benefit from the solid waste management
program under the project. The provision of communal refuse storage bins, tractors and trailers will
improve storage facilities and collection services. Paro town will, in lieu of tractors and trailers, receive
3-ton tipper trucks because of the long haul distance. Funds have been allocated for purchase of
equipment (two small excavators) and development of sites with roads, fence, drains, and site office. The
program also includes public information campaign and comprehensive programs of training for waste
management personnel.
(c)    Sanitation: The program includes the construction of 5 new public toilet blocks and rehabilitation
of 3 toilets. The construction of new toilets will be started only if the local authority agrees to operate on a
pay-and-use basis. Each block will provide latrine facilities for both men and women. There will be no
sewerage installations since all the towns are very small, and many of the developments are yet to be
started. Therefore, to cope with the sanitary service facilities, a desludging vacuum pump mounted on a
truck will be provided to each of the towns fbr emptying of septic tanks and for disposal at the controlled
landfill site.
(d)    Urban Infrastructure:
(i)    Urban Drainage: Drainage improvements will aim to alleviate the inundation in the
Chamgkhar town at Bhumthang. Eight towns will receive investments in drainage. For the majority of
towns in the program, the drain overflows is due to inadequacies of the existing system. Drainage
improvements include new masonry drains, r econstruction and covering of existing drains. As part of
erosion control of streams and rivers flowing beside the towns, about 3 km erosion protection of river
embankmnent is included in the project. The erosion control works in Paro and Bhumthang will only be
started after a hydraulic expert has visited the sites and completed the detailed design.
- 20 -



(ii)    Urban Roads: Investments will focus on the upgrading of existing roads operated by the
municipal corporations, and also some new road development. Upgrading will consist of converting
earthen, gravel surfaced roads to bitumen surfaced. The priority program includes improvements of about
6.2 km of roads. The new road development is about 3 km.
(iii)   Civic Facilities: Two project towns will benefit from new or refurbished bus terminals and
expanded parking areas. Four town residents and the school children will benefit from new footpaths,
which will be provided inside the town, or as walking access to nearby schools. Three project towns will
benefit from investments to improve their central kitchen market places. Three towns will be provided with
recreational parks. The parks will focus on the need for children's playground facilities.
-21 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BHUTAN: URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Institutional Development                                 0.90          0.60         1.50
Urban Development                                         1.34          7.10         8.44
Total Baseline Cost                                       2.24          7.70         9.94
Physical Contingencies                                   0.24          1.28         1.52
Price Contingencies                                      0.18          0.59         0.77
Total Project Costs              2.66         9.57         12.23
Total Financing Required              2.66          9.57         12.23
Technical Assistance                                        0.96          0.64          1.60
Civil Works                                                 1.69          7.79         9.48
Goods and Equipment                                         0.01          1.14          1.15
0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs     2.66          9.57         12.23
Total Financing Required      2.66          9.57        12.23
-22 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
The project will benefit an estimated 55,000 people in ten secondary towns over twenty years.
Benefits were calculated using estimated values for value of time, cost of medical treatment, value of
tourist days. Willingness-to-pay data -- used to assess the lowest monetary value of changes in
environmental quality and health1 -- was obtained from social assessment surveys in each project town.
The quantifiable incremental economic benefits are: (a) time savings from not having to fetch
water; (b) health cost savings (drugs and hospital care); and (c) incremental tourism revenues.
Willingness-to-pay estimnates -- obtained from social surveys in each project town -- were undertaken for:
(a) improved water services, (b) improved solid waste (garbage) services, and (c) improved sanitation.
The overall EIRR is 20.7%. The FIRR for the water supply components is 11.2%, with individual
water supply scheme FIRRs varying from 0.3% (Duksum) to 19.6% (Paro).
1. Better health from cleaner water and better sanitation
A major benefit from the project would be improved health for urban residents. At present there is
a serious level of water and hygiene-related sicknesses and diseases in all project towns (as identified by the
social assessment, discussions with hospitals and BHU personnel in each of the project towns, from health
data provided by the district administrators and hospital management personnel, and from published
Ministry of Health and Education data). This has led to high and recurrent levels of public expenditure on
drugs and hospital/health institution patient care, which will become an increasing fiscal drain as the
Government moves closer to its aim of health-for-all, while continuing largely free provision of health
services. Improved urban sanitation can contribute to reducing health costs -- both for the community and
the Government -- through improved sanitation, especially the removal/reduction of fecal and other
contamination from water sources.
Reliable delivery of potable drinking water to domestic consumers and bulk users in the ten towns
will ameliorate many environment-related health problems. In 1997/98 the twelve most prevalent
conditions were: ARI/pneumonia; intestinal infections/viral hepatitis; skin diseases; peptic ulcer syndrome;
musculoskeletal diseases; jaundice/headaches; eye diseases; teeth and gum diseases; injuries; worms;
hepatitis/unknown fevers; ear diseases. Of these twelve conditions, almost 50 per cent can be attributed
directly or indirectly to contaminated water, or related contamination/bacterial infection from a lack of
water for personal hygiene. Diarrhea sickness/disease and dysentery represent a major water-related health
problem which is significantly under-reported in all hospitals and health stations. It remains the third most
common sickness at Basic Health Units, and there has been little change over the last five years in the
number of cases reported of diarrhea and dysentery linked to contaminated drinking water.
With the introduction of potable water all-year-round, the number of water and hygiene-related
sicknesses and diseases will be reduced. Savings can be expected in all urban centers from: (a) drug costs
associated with the treatment of patients, both as day visits, and from drugs administered after hospital
admission; and (b) costs associated with hospital treatment (as out-patients or as admissions). Bulk water
users such as Monk Bodies, army, police and school boarders are also expected to derive health benefits.
- 23 -



2. Reduced Household Costs of Fetching Water
Willingness-to-pay surveys indicated a high-willingness to pay for private (in-dwelling) water
supply in all towns except Tingtibi, where stringent requirements for new house construction and limited
government investment to date has resulted in resistance to payment for new services. In all towns except
Wangdue-Phodrang (where supply is currently very intermittent), there was a low willingness to pay for
improved stand-pipe service.
Time-saving analysis for residential users suggests that the project will have substantial benefits
for the popula-tions of all ten towns. At present the average distance to a tap stand varies from 7 meters
(Ranjung) to 82 meters (Paro), with a weighted average of 36 meters. While in the wet season some water
is available on site from rainwater, no such provision is effectively possible in the dry season.
Total time savings in opportunity cost terms vary from Nu. 31,000 a year (Ranjung) to Nu.
770,000 a year (Paro). The average is Nu. 207,000 a year. The estimates use a market wage (opportunity
cost of labor) of Nu. 80 a day for an average 8 hour day, and assume 9 trips per day with a 20 litre bucket;
if bulk users were included benefits would be significantly higher.
3. Higher Tourism Income through Improved Municipal Services/Conditions
A third quantifiable benefit of the project is increase tourist income. Tourism has been growing
steadily, expanding four-fold since 1990. This tourism has been high-value, with the Government setting a
minimum $200 fee per day. The Government continues to see higher value-lower volume tourism as
economically, culturally and environmentally desirable. Future sustainable tourism development will be
undertaken through the private sector, while continuing to be prudently regulated.
As a sign of the potential for future growth an additional 25 tourist licenses were granted in 1998
over and above the existing 33. But a range of possible determinants to further rapid growth have been
identified. These include:
The relatively poor development of urban town centers outside Thimphu, particularly access to
potable water in hotels, the standard of sanitation in hotels, and the near-absence of adequate public toilets.
A degraded urban environment, with open dumping of garbage in almost all towns.
Poor standard of many hotels, particularly in relation to access to clean water for bathing, kitchen
hygiene, shortages of electricity, and overloading of septic tanks.
The proposed project will foster urban upgrading of benefit to tourism in the following areas: urban
water supply (quality and quantity); garbage collection and disposal/burial; upgrading of public toilets;
desludging of septic tanks; provision of urban amenities/street paving, street lighting, drainage, parks/play
lots.
Major Assumptions:
Project life of 20 years.
FIR:Rs based on water user charges, but exclude land taxes, urban surcharges etc.
Capital charge of 2.75% of total water supply capital cost, amortized over 15 years.
O&M costs 3% p.a. of all project costs, less the institutional support component.
After 20 years residual value is 40% of all capital costs.
-24 -



Sensitivity Analysis:
Sensitivity analysis indicated no major or unexpected down-side risks. For the economic analysis
the impacts of increase in capital costs, decreases in estimated benefits, and delays in completion are:
10% increase in capital costs     :      16.46%
10% decrease in benefits          .      16.92%
Delay in completion by one year    :      18.98%
- 25 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
Years Ending
June 30
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.1         2.5        3.8        3.5        2.0        0.3        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           0.1         2.5        3.8        3.5        2.0        0.3        0.0
Total Financing                0.1        2.5        3.8        3.5        2.0        0.3        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    0.1        2.4        3.3        3.0         1.7       0.3        0.0
Govemment                   0.0        0.1        0.5         0.5        0.3       0.0        0.0
Central                             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       0.1        2.5        3.8        3.5        2.0        0.3        0.0
Year I     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-26 -



Attachment 1
Financial Management Arrangements
Flow of Funds
The RGoB would pass on the budgeted funds for capital expenditure to each
Implementing Unit (IU) through the Letter of Credit (LC) system in accordance with the normal
formula in which assistance is passed on to various ministries. A specially designated Bank LC
account will be maintained by the Ministry of Communications (MOC) for routing project
transactions. The Administration and Finance Division (AFD) of MOC will prepare their project
expenditure budget for each fiscal year based on the proposed project activities in consultation with
the lUs. The actual disbursement of funds for capital expenditures from the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) would take place, on a case by case basis, upon requisition submitted by MOC supported by
relevant documentation. The recurrent expenses will be transferred quarterly. In order to ensure
project coordination and accounts consolidation, all project related transactions will be routed
through the Project Cell (PC) and AFD of MOC in Thimphu. MOC will initially advance the
amounts to the lUs based on agreed work program and the IUs will submit supporting documentation
for their expenditure. The PC and AFD will consolidate the same submission to MOF. Initially, the
project will follow traditional disbursement method and will switch to PMR-based disbursement over
a period of time. It has been agreed with MOC and MOF that PMR-based disbursements will be
adopted not later than July 1, 2001.
Accounting and Internal Controls
Books of accounts for the project would be maintained as per RGoB rules prescribed in
the Financial Manual, 1988. A separate cash book and general ledger will be maintained for project
related transactions which will be routed through a unique Bank Account LC number. Accounting of
project expenditures will be capable of capturing data by RGoB budget heads, project components,
sub-components, expenditure categories (summary and detailed), and disbursement categories (as per
Legal Agreements). This would match closely with the classification of expenditures and sources of
funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan and Project Cost Tables in the
Project Appraisal Document). From commencement of the Project, simplif ed PMR's (Forms 1-A
and 3 as per format agreed with IDA during project negotiations) would be generatedfrom the
project accounts and subnmtted to IDA within 45 days of the end of each quarter for IDA's
review. As and when the project graduates to PMR-based disbursements, AFD and PC would
arrange to submit all the PMR's (as per format agreed during negotiation) and the disbursements will
be based on these quarterly PMRs. Consolidation of project accounts would be done by AFD and
PC. The Chart of Accounts would ensure that data is captured in a manner as to facilitate financial
reporting for the project to various stakeholders.
Financial Reporting
The IUs would submit their consolidated monthly statement of accounts to AFD, PC and
MOF in the format prescribed in the RGoB Financial Manual. Apart from this, the AFD and PC
supported by the recruited Financial Consultant (FC) and the project accounting staff would be
responsible for consolidating the project accounts and preparing quarterly PMRs as per format
-27 -



agreed with the World Bank.
Auditing Arrangements
The Accounts of the Project will be audited every year by the Royal Audit Authority
(RAA) as per RGoB rules. However, the RAA will have the option to contract out annual audit to
private sector auditors (who should be qualified chartered accountants acceptable to IDA). When the
audit is contracted out to private sector aiuditors, the audit fees for the same shall be eligible for
reimbursement from IDA Credit. The AFD and PC would ensure that the accounts are finalized
and the project financial statements are submitted to auditors within 3 months of the close of
RGoB 's fiscal year. The annual project financial statements audited by the RAA/private sector
auditors would be submitted to IDA wiithin 6 months of the close ofRGoB 'sfiscal year (as
required under World Bank's operationalpolicies). Any accounting firm(s), or any of its
associates providing accounting or other consultancy services for this project would not be eligible to
be the auditor for the project, to avoid conflict of interest.
Staffing for Financial Management
Key Professional Staff:    The most important requirement for effective financial management of
the project is appointment of qualified and appropriate staff at key levels. The MOF and MOC
would ensure thiat a Finance Consultant (Professional Accountant with knowledge of
computerized accounting) is recruited by March 31, 2000 to oversee the project financial
management. The FC would be responsible for: (a) all aspects of project financial management; (b)
guiding and assisting the project accounting staff in consolidation of project accounts at the national
level; (c) coordinating preparation of PMRs for the World Bank and other stakeholders; and (d)
financial planning and management of the project including financial forecasting. The FC would be
located in the PC and would also work closely with the Project Manager and the project accounting
staff. Apart from providing support on financial accounting, and reporting aspects of the project, the
FC would also interact with various field offices, RAA and/or the private sector auditors, as
necessary.
SupportingStaff: MOF will ensure that there is a dedicated Finance Officer and Chief
Accountant to handle project transcations. The designated accounting staff for the project would
be given appropriate training in World Bank disbursement procedures.
Computerized AccountinLe and Manaaement Information System
MOF will review the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) being
developed for the Second Education Project (SEP) in Bhutan and other software products available in
the market to find out whether the system meets the reporting requirements of RGoB and the World
Bank for PMR-based disbursements. The World Bank has provided information on other vendors
who have developed simnilar software for other Bank projects. After reviewing the available products,
MOF would adopt a software most suited to Bhutan's needs by June 30, 2000.
FMS Development Action Plan
i)     MOF and MOC would recruit a Financial Consultant (Professional Accountant with
knowledge of computerized accounting) by March 31, 2000 to oversee the proposed new
project with responsibilities as described above.
-28 -



(ii)    MOF and MOC would review the FMIS developed for the SEP as well as other
products available/emerging in the market and arrange to adopt a suitable software for
the project by June 30, 2000.
(iii)    MOF and MOC would make all arrangements to switch over to PMR-based
disbursement by July 1, 2001.
- 29 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
Procurement
A.    General Rules
1.    The proceeds of the Loan will be used to finance the procurement of civil works (water supply
including filtration plants, footpaths, drains, civic works, river erosion control measures, street lighting,
etc.), goods (domestic water meters, chlorination equipment, vehicles, waste collection bins, computers,
etc.) and services (consulting services, training, etc.).
2.     Procurement of works, goods and related services under the Project would be carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Bank 'Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits'
of January 1985 and revised in January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
3.     Procurement of consultants would be done in accordance with the provisions of 'Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants' by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999.
4.    Invitation for bids will be published in the press: (i) UNDB and local/Indian press for all ICB
cases; (ii) local and Indian press for all NCB cases; and (iii) local press only for all cases valued at less
than US $50,000 (works/goods locally procured).
5.     Minimum post qualification criteria mwill be fixed and indicated in the documents in all cases to
ensure selection of bidders with appropriate financial and technical capability.
6.    No special preference will be accorded to any bidder, either for terrns and conditions, or for price,
except to the extent agreed to for ICB, in accordance with Appendix 2 of the Procurement Guidelines.
All bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as indicated in the bidding/contract
documents
A bidder's Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a contractor's perforrnance security
shall apply only to the specific contract under which it was furnished
7.      Post-bidding negotiations shall not be, allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.
8.    Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank (i) for the
first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (ii) for all subsequent requests for extension,
irrespective of the period.
9.     Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence. Bids shall not be
rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the
Association. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders.
10.   Detailed design and engineering, including soil investigation and land acquisition should be
completed before bids are invited.
- 30 -



11.    Schedule of rates (based on which estimates are prepared) should be updated regularly, taking into
account realistic data based on construction methodology to be used, current market prices for materials
and labor and reasonable contractor's profit.
12.   BOQ should have separate schedule for those general items which are not covered in the analysis
of rates based on which the estimates are prepared.
13.    Contractors should be made responsible for providing all materials, including cement/steel/pipes,
etc.
14.   There will be no restriction in the sale of bidding documents. Bid documents shall be made
available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the required fee. Foreign bidders shall not be
precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding
process. There shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the deadline for submission of
bids.
15.    Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost.
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a
format and specified period agreed by the Association.
16.   Bid packages should be formulated optimally to attract competitive bids from qualified bidders to
ensure satisfactory completion in desired time frame.
17.   ICB procedures will be used for all cases needing import of equipment.
18.    The Project Cell will develop an acceptable Procurement Management Reporting system to flrnish
periodical reports on progress of procurement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.     Civil Works
Civil works include:
(a)    water supply works, including filtration plants
(b)    roads, footpaths, drains, civic works, river erosion control measures
(c)    street lighting
These works are small and scattered over ten towns. These will be packaged into separate
packages for each town, valued approximately $0.1-0.5 million. Foreign frms would not fnd the contracts
attractive in view of the very nature of the works and their geographical distribution. They will therefore
be procured following the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures ($8.71 million). Nonetheless,
bids from foreign contractors would not be precluded. Strict post-qualification criteria will be incorporated
in the bidding document for each work to ensure selection of qualified contractors for execution.
2.     Procurement of Small Civil Works
- 31 -



Small civil works of value individually costing less than $50,000 per contract ($770,000 in
aggregate) would be awarded: (a) on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three qualified contractors eligible under the guidelines; (b) on the basis of unit/piece rate system to
qualified contractors; or (c) by Force Account as a last resort in a manner satisfactory to the Association in
accordance with Paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines.
3.    Bidding Documents
Standard NCB documents as finalized by the RGoB were reviewed and comments offered during
appraisal. RGoB will amend the documents keeping the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) as
base and incorporate all suggestions. The modified documents will be submitted to the Bank for review
and comments, before final adoption.
FoT procuring small civil works under Shopping, RGoB will prepare a model document for review
by the Bank before adoption.
4.    Goods and Equipment
The project supports the procurement of the following items:
(a)   domestic water meters and chlorination equipment
(b)   vehicles
(c)   mobile sewage pumps with tankers
(d)   solid waste collection bins
These will be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Procurement Guidelines. ICB documents shall be compiled by the RGoB based on the
Bank SBD's.
International/National Shopping procedures will be adopted for procurement of office equipment,
computers, etc., valued at less than $50,000 per contract, not to exceed in aggregate approximately $0.23
million, in accordance with Paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Books, periodicals, video tapes, cornputer software, etc., costing at less than $50,000 per contract,
not to exceed in aggregate approximately $0.05 million, will be procured following Direct Contracting
procedures in accordance with Paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.     Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
Technical assistance and consultancy services would be contracted following procedures in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997 [revised January 1999]. The Standard Request for Proposals [RFP] and Conditions of
Contract would be used for all contracts. Mainly Quality and Cost Based Selection [QCBS] method will
be followed. For some cases, selection of inidividuals based on qualifications could be used in accordance
with Section V of the Guidelines.
Training services in established institutions would be procured directly subject to clearance with
the Bank on course content, number and details of personnel to be deputed and course fee. Other training
- 32 -



services would be procured following QCBS procedures.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00           8.71           0.77           0.00           9.48
(0.00)         (7.40)         (0.65)         (0.00)         (8.05)
2. Goods                             1.15           0.00           0.28           0.00            1.43
(1.15)         (0.00)         (0.28)         (0.00)         (1.43)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00           1.32           0.00            1.32
Technical Assistance                (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.32)         (0.00)          (1.32),
0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
___________________________  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00'
Total                             1.15           8.71           2.37           0.00           12.23
(1.15)         (7.40)         (2.25)         (0.00)         (10.80)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
a Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, traiing, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-33 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
s                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A. Firms           1.08      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.08
(1.08)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.08)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.10      0.14      0.00       0.24
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.10)    (0.14)    (0.00)    (0.24)
Total   1.08     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.10      0.14      0.00      1.32
(1.08)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.10)    (0.14)    (0.00)    (1.32)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 34 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
1.    Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the
project shall be furnished to the Bank for it's review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
Paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of the
said Paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
Civil Works
All packages for civil works exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 or more will be subject to prior
review by the Bank as per procedures set forth in Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Bank
Guidelines.
Goods and Equipment
All ICB packages irrespective of value would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank:
(a)    Terms of Reference for all consultancies;
(b)    Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost more than $50,000;
(c)    Contracts for employment of individuals estimated to cost more than $10,000
3.    Post Review
Works and Goods
The contracts below the prior review threshold for Works and Goods shall be subject to post
review as per procedures set forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Bank Guidelines.
Technical Assistance. Studies and Training
Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 and contracts
for employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $10,000 shall be subject to post review provided
that the TORs have been cleared with the Bank.
4.    Procurement Information
Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
- 35 -



(a)    Prompt reporting of contract award information by the Project Cell/MOC of the RGoB;
(b)    Comprehensive semi-annual reports by Project Cell/MOC of the RGoB indicating:
(i)   revised cost estimated for individual contracts and total cost;
(ii)   revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract
award and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)   compliance with aggregate limits of on the specified methods of procurement
(c)    Completion by the Borrcwer within three months of the Credit closing date.
5.    Assessment of Procurement Management System
The Bank reviewed the Procurement/Project Management system of Project Cell/MOC to
determine whether the systems are in conformity with the Bank's guidelines for procurement in the
investment projects. The following action is agreed:
(a)    The Project Cell would have a Procurement Management Specialist (with engineering
background and not less than 10 years experience in procurement) to assist in monitoring and providing
guidance on procurement to the various urban local bodies.
(b)    The Project Cell would identify and select a panel of engineering consultants who could be
deputed to inspect the works and conduct technical audits of contracts as and when required, under
implementation to ensure quality and provide recommendations to the Cell for following up and corrective
action necessary.
(c)    The Project Cell would also engage a consultant to develop and implement a Procurement
Monitoring System (PMS) to ensure generation of all PMR reports in the Bank approved formats.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                 More than US$50,000            NCB             Works costing more than
US$100,000
Up to US$50,000      NS/FA/Unit/Piece Rate           None
System
2. Goods
- goods                  More than US$50,000             ICB                      All
- computer and office      Up to US$50,000       International/National          None
equipment                                              Shopping
- books, periodicals,
videotapes, computer       Up to US$50,000         Direct Contracting            None
software, etc                                       .
- 36 -



3. Services- Technical    More than US$200,000        QCBS                      All
Training
More than US$100,000 up
to US$200,000       QCBS (shortlist could           All
comprise entirely of national
consultants)
Up to US$100,000
Single Source       Individual consultants
costing the equivalent of
US$10,000 or more and
firms costing the equivalent
of US$50,000 or more.
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $8 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 37 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of Loan proceeds is given in Table C. Disbursements against civil works contracts will
cover about 85% of certified expenditures, with the balance to be fnanced from counterpart funds.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Civil Works                                 7.28                         85%
Goods and Equipment                         1.20          100% of foreign and local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
Institutional Development Training and      1.24                         100%
Management Support
Unallocated                                 1.08
Total Project Costs                        10.80
Total                                      10.80
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Applications for withdrawals will be sent by the Borrower to IDA based upon the anticipated payments
schedule (based upon corresponding procurement plan). Full documentation for all contracts requiring
Bank's prior review will be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications. Expenditures for individual
contracts of goods and services, for which prior review by IDA is not required, will be disbursed against
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs); all records evidencing such information must be retained by UDHD
until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit is made. All withdrawal applications in respect of civil works will be
accompanied by certificates from the Supervision Consultants attesting that the works and materials meet
the design standards and specifications agreed by IDA, and that the payments are in accordance with the
completed works. Royal Audit Authority will conduct or contract out to a private sector firm the financial
audit; certified copies of the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, together with
the auditor's report and the auditor's opinion on the statement of expenditure (SOE) would be made
available to IDA no later than 6 months after the end of the fiscal year.
Special account:
A Special Account of US$1.0 million will be established at the Royal Bank of Bhutan to meet anticipated
expenditures of about four months. Eligible payments greater than one third of the Special Account amount
may be paid by the Bank directly to suppliers at a specific request of RGoB. The Special Account will be
replenished on the basis of reimbursed clairms for eligible expenditures received by IDA.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  23
First Bank mission (identification)     02/08/98                    02/08/98
Appraisal mission departure              06/12/99                   06/12/99
Negotiations                             10/14/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            01/31/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specility
Evangeline Kim Cuenco             Task Leader/Urban Development
Paul Blanchet                     Engineering
Karl Kleiner                      Engineering
Peter Nicholas                    Economics
Jonathan Kamkwalala               Municipal Finance
P.K. Subramanian                  Financial Management
I.U.B. Reddy                      Social Development
R.R. Mohan                        Social Development
Dan Hoornweg                      Environment
Panneer Selvam                    Environment
Akhtar Hamid                      Legal Counsel
Ivonna Teresa Kratynski           Disbursement
Carmen Severino-Jones             Project Finance/budget
Cliff Ellis                       Land Management/Urban Design
Orville Grimes                    Economics
N. Raman                          Procurement
Heinz Unger                       Environment
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Borrower's Project Implementation Plan - September 1999
2.   Sectoral Environmental Assessment - July 1999
3.   Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehabilitaton of Project Affected Persons - September
1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
None
C. Other
1.    Bhutan Eighth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002), Ministry of Planning, September 1996
2.   Environmental Act of Bhutan (draft), National Environment Commission, August 1997
3.   Bhutan Human Settlements Review Report, November 1993
4.   National Report to HABITAT II, "City Summit", Royal Government of Bhutan, March 1996
*Including electronic files
-40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions      disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                   Purpose                            IBRD       IDA      Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
BT-PE-9582    1994 ROYAL GOVT OF BHUTAN      FORESTRY III                        0.00       5.40       0.00      3.41     3.03     0.89
BT-PE-9574    1998 ROYAL GOVT OF BHUTAN      EDUCATION 11                        0.00      13.69       0.00     12.81     2.43     0.00
Total:     0.00      19.09       0.00     16.22     5.46     0.89
Active       Closed
Projects      Projects       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       2.64         21.00         23.64
of which has been repaid:      0.00          0.91          0.91
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:      19.09         16.37         35.46
Amount sold:        0.00          0.00          0.00
of which repaid:      0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Undisbursed:      16.22          0.00         16.22
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-41 -



BHUTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY_Approval____ Company                            Loan   Equity_  Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity_  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitmient:       0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
-42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BHUTAN: Bhutan - Urban Development Project
11/17/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South      Low-                      -
Bhutan       Asia  Income        Development dlamond^
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                         0.76      1.305     3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, IJS8I                     480        430        520
GNP (Atlas method, U5$ bitlions)                        0 36       555      1,844
Average annual growth, 199248 
PoPulation (%)                                           2.9        1.8       1.7
Labor force (%1                                          2.3        2.3       i's      GNP                V              Gross
per                             primary
Most tecent estimate (latest vear available, 1992-98)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national Povertv line)
Uirban population (%of totalpooulation)                   15        27         31
Life expecancy at birth (years)                          66         62         63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 hve births)                  71         77         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5t                38        53                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                    64        81         74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     46         49         32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)     72       100        108                 Shutan
Male                                                    ..       109        113                  Low-income group
Female                                                            90       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                                      0.28       0.40      0.43
Gross domestic investment/GOP                    .      30.5       48.1      47.3
Exports of goods and services/GOP                ..    21.4        33.0      33.2                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                       .      17,2       38.8      37.9
Gross national savings/GDP                       .      10.1       35.8      36.5
Current account balarince/GDP                          -34.0      -14,1     -10.8      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                                    0.2        0.6       0.5      Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..    14.4        30.3      27.8
Total debt servicelexports                       ..      1.0        6.0       6.3
Present value of debtUGDP                        ..
Present value of debtlexports                    ..
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   7.9       6.1      7 8        7.1       7.1              -Bhutan
GNP per capita                        7 2       2.0      Z.6        2.4       3.1              -     Low-income group
Exports of goods and services           ..       .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
I5% of GOP at factor cost)
Agriculture                                      ..    46.0        37.8      38.2
Industry                                         ..    27.4        36.5      36.5     o
Manufacturing                                  ..      5.8       11.4       11.6     .
Services                                         ,,    26.6        25.8      25.4      2    0_     ,- _         =_i__
Private consumption                              ..    65.2        35.8      38.2    .20            P4   95   9r    7    P8
General government consumption                   ..    17.6        25.5      25.8                -0GDI           a  GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    34.6         42.3      42.6
(average annual growth)                    1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     6.2      3.1        3.1       3.4    2-
Industry                                       14.8      9.0        3.8       7.3
Manufacturing                                11.6      12.2       3.6       13.0
Services                                        6.7      7.0       16.1       7.2    I
Private consumption..                                      .         ..         .
General government consumption                   ..                   ,
Gross domestic investment                       4.7      9.9        0.3       7.5                        95   9C   97   98
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..         .          ..            -     Exports     0  Imports
Gross national product                          9.4      5.0        5.7       5.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-43 -



Bhutan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998
Domestic prices                                                                         nan %
(% change)                                                                             20
Consumer prices                                           4.8        7.4       9
Implicit GDP deflator                                     8.6       14.7
Government finance                                                                      s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                  ..        ..       18.5      19.9             93    94    as    se   S7    9t
Current budget balance                                               0.6       3.3
Overall surplus/deficit                                             -2.3       3.2                    GDP deflator     CPt
TRADE
(USS millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..      29         99       111      ie2
Electricity                                     ..       ..         21        37
Agric. Prods.                                   ..       ..         12
Manufactures                                     ..
Total imports (cif)                                .     101        131        136
Food
Fuel and energy
Capital goods                                   ..       ..         ..        ..
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..2   93   94   9S   9t   97   9
Import price index (1995=100)                     .                                               Exports        Ilmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1o98      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     .       50        121       146       a     t
Imports of goods and servires                      .     144        183       203       .s  92T  93   54   as   ss   97   95
Resource baldnce                                  ..     -95        -62        -57     -o              __ L
Net income                                        ..       0          0         0       .15
Net current transfers                             .        0          6         11    -20
Current account balance                           ..     -95        -56        -47     -2s
Financing items (net)                            ..       79         78        92      -30 
Changes in net reserves                           ..      16        -22        -45    -3s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)            ..       ..       176       218
Conversion rate (DEC, locaMUSS)                 8.7      13.0       36.3      41.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              0       40        121        120
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        9         23        24                                  B: 24
Total debt service                                0         1          7         9            E: 38
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..        ..        74        85
Official creditors                              0       16         14         2
Private creditors                               0        0         -2        -2
Foreign direct investment                      ..        0          0         0
Portfolio equity                               ..        0          0                                       D: 5
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0          0        14      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   0        5          1         1      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term|
Net flows                                       0        5          1         1
Interest payments                               0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                   0        5          1         0
Data on National Accounts and Debt is in calendar year, all other data is in fiscal year.                                 11/17/99
Development Economics
-44 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28474
-40'                                     AD,
-28'30'                                                                                                                    BHUTAN                                                                    28J30'-
Thimpky_ BHUTA                                                                                                                  UNPAVED ROADS, ROADS                RIVERS                       .; .T.5000
)                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~UNDER CONSTRUCTION  _,_DISTRICT BOUNDARIES  I    3000
5                                A52WG   ~~~~~ .                                     #F    NATIONALCAPITAL            -S--  INTERNATIONALEOUNDARIES           \ . .S. 1000~~~~~~~NAIONL CAITALloo
20                                                                                                                                    IDiXf o  2         .    DISTRICT CAPITALS  ITRAINLBUDRE
/   )   \                           t      Z -    \                          ;                O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OTHER TOWNS
-28 00                  80,                               ,                                               W,        xJ ET\N                       /A_                                                                                            28 00'-
0     ID    20     30     AO    50                              '   iG ti      '    7                                      ->|                       p|-*                                   J             7
hlLOMETER~S                          v     t                    t     '..,j7                                 f      T      d 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ff,JN  
\au~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR HA99



