Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3310 BHU
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 16, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3310 BHU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 2000, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
 the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  2
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c)
"Environment Management Plans" or "EMPs" means the environment management 
plans included in SEA; 
(d)
"MOC" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Communications; 
(e)
"NEC" means the Borrower’s National Environmental Commission;  
(f)
"Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement" means the 
Borrower’s Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement dated August 6, 1999 
satisfactory to the Association, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association; 
(g)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the Borrower’s Project Implementation 
Plan for the carrying out of the Project, dated August 11, 1999 and approved by the 
Association, as the same may be updated from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association;
(h)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
"Project towns" means the towns in which the Project or any part thereof 
is to be carried out, being Wangdue Phodrang, Trongsa, Zhemgang, Tingtibi, Bumthang, 
Lhuentse, Trashi Yangtse, Duksum, Rangjung and Paro, or any other town or towns which 
may be add to, or substituted for, this list from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Association; and "Project town" means each and any of such towns; 
(j)
"Project Cell" means the Project Cell established by the Borrower within 
UDHD, inter alia, for the planning, implementation, coordination, management, 
supervision and monitoring and evaluation of Project activities; 
(k)
"Sector Environment Assessment" or "SEA" means the environmental 
assessment for urban infrastructure and services in the Project towns issued by NEC on 
August 18, 1999; 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and 
(m)
"UDHD" means the Urban Development and Housing Division of MOC. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,900,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
Page  3
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each \0bJune 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2010 and ending December 15, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2019 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through UDHD, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, urban development and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  4
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial 
management and accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such fiscal year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such fiscal year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  5
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
July 1, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Tashichhodzong
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
890-201
THIMPHU, BHUTAN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  6
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
By /s/ Lyonpo Om Pradhan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Marilou Uy 
Country Director, 
Bhutan
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   5,320,000
85%
(2)
Goods
     880,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expend-
itures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’services   910,000
100%
and training
(4)
Unallocated
     790,000
TOTAL
   7,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
Page  7
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each for employment of consulting firms and $25,000 equivalent each for 
employment of individual consultants; and (d) training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Bank of Bhutan, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records, accounts and financial statements reflecting expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
Page  8
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
Page  9
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of life through 
enhancement of the level and coverage of basic urban services in selected secondary 
towns of Bhutan, and, to that end: (a) to strengthen the financial and institutional 
capacity of the responsible authorities to deliver such services; and (b) to finance 
high priority investments in such services for which there is broad public support.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Strengthening of UDHD and the Project towns through the provision of technical 
assistance and training for: (a) project management and monitoring, including the 
strengthening of UDHD’s procurement procedures and financial management system; \0b(b) 
operation and maintenance (O&M) of urban infrastructures; and (c) urban planning, land 
use management and mapping.  
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to NEC for developing 
environmental guidelines for urban development and environmental practice codes for 
solid waste management.
Part B:
Urban Development 
1.
Installation/upgrading of water supply and distribution systems, including the 
provision of water supply chlorinating equipment. 
2.
Provision of solid waste collection and septic tank de-sludging equipment, and 
modernization of land fills. 
3.
Carrying out of miscellaneous works, including construction/installation of 
footpaths, street lighting, access roads and storm-water drains; improvements to 
community market-places; and rehabilitation of public toilets.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Page  10
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 of this Part C, works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
(iii)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed with the Association; 
(iv)
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders; 
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not 
carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without let or hindrance;
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
(viii)post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidders or any other bidders; 
(ix)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
(x)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates; 
(xi)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
(xii)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
(xiv)
a bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
Page  11
(xv)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which (i) if collusion is determined, the 
parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall then be 
made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder and (ii) if 
no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall 
be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association;
(xvi)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (i) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight weeks and (ii) for all 
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period; 
(xvii)bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; and 
(xviii)there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids. 
2.
International and National Shopping 
Office equipment and computers estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $230,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international and national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Books, periodicals, videotapes and software which cost $50,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works/Force Account
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $770,000 equivalent:  
(a)
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or 
(b)
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the guidelines; or 
(c)
may, if they meet the requirements of paragraph  3.8 of the Guidelines 
and with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$100,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part 
B of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
Page  12
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for project design and supervision and 
institutional strengthening estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for training which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  13
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Project Cell 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Cell with adequate numbers of 
professional staff with skills, qualifications and experience and with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, including: (a) a Project Manager (already 
appointed);\0b(b) a Deputy Project Manager (already appointed); (c) a Chief Technical 
Expert (for two years) (to be appointed not later than June 30, 2000); (d) a Senior 
Finance Officer and a Project Accountant (already appointed); (e) a Financial 
Consultant (to be appointed not later than March 31, 2000) to introduce a financial 
reporting system for UDHD consistent with IDA requirements; (f) a Procurement 
Specialist (to be appointed not later than March 31, 2000); and (g) a full-time 
construction supervisor in each Project town (to be appointed not later than June 30, 
2000). 
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that staff appointed to positions in the Project Cell 
listed in the preceding paragraph will not be transferred to other positions during 
the Project implementation period (and in the case of the Senior Finance Officer, for 
an additional six months following the Closing Date), except after prior consultation 
with the Association and in accordance with the applicable law of the Borrower.
Land Acquisition 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that any land required for the Project will be 
acquired, and any persons affected by the acquisition of such land will be 
compensated, resettled and/or rehabilitated, all in accordance with the provisions of 
the Policy Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement. 
Environmental Mitigation Measures
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
 implement or cause to be implemented the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring and evaluation and all other measures provided for in SEA and EMPs in 
accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, timetables and other provisions 
therein set forth, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such implementation; and 
(b)
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, ensure that all bid 
documents, contracts and bills of quantities for works included in the Project will 
specifically provide for said environmental  mitigation measures. 
Quarterly Progress Reports 
5.
The Borrower shall, within forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, provide to the Association a quarterly report (i) describing progress made in 
carrying out the Project during the calendar quarter, including the achievement of the 
indicators referred to in paragraph 4 below and (ii) setting forth a proposed action 
plan for each Part of the Project for the following calendar quarter.
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-Term Review
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
Page  14
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by October 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the 
matter.
