Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7794
PROJECT COMW'LETION REPORT
INDO)NESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
(LOAN 1499-IND)
AND
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
(LOAN 1604-IND)
MAY 31, 1989
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distrib-jtion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency: Rupiah (Rp)
Rate of Exchan.ge:
Appraisal Year                 US$1.00 - Rp. 415
Nov 16,1978 - Mar 30. 1983    US$1.00   Rp. 625
Mar 31,1983 - Sept 11. 1986   US$1.00 - Rp. 970
Sept 12,1986 - Present         US$1.00 - Rp.1640
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOI: April 1 - March 31
PTP:   January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BI            -   Bank Indonesia
BRI           -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DCC           -   District C 'ordinating Committee
DGE           -   Directorate General of Estates
DGFCA         -   Directorate General of Food Crops-Agriculture
DGH           -   Directorate General of Highways
DPD           -   Provincial Estate Crops Services
GOI           -   Government of Indonesia
IPEDA         -   Land Tax (luran Pembangunan Daerah)
LPP           -   Estates Training Center (Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan)
MOA           -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF           -  Ministry of Finance
MOT           -   Ministry of Transmigration
NES           -   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects
PBSN          -   National Provincial Private Estate Enterprises
PRPTE         -   Rehabilitation Development Project
PCC           -   Provincial Coordination Committee
PIR           -   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects, locally funded
PELITA I      -   First F4.ve-Year Development Plan (1969/70-73/74)
PELITA II     -   Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-78/79)
PELITA III    -   Third Five-Year Development Plan (1970/80-83184)
PELITA IV     -   Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984185-88/89)
?MU           -   Project Management Unit
PTP           -   State-owned Estate Enterprises with Limited Liability
TKPIR         -   Special Team for Tree Crop Projects (Tim Khusus)



FOR OFFICUL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washn8:on. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
office of Duut.cuv.Cwta
May 31, 1989
MEMORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Indonesia Nucleus Estates
and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND) and Nucleus
Estate and Stmallholders II Proiect (Loan 1604-IND)
Attached, for informAtion, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project  Completion   Report   on   Indonesia   Nucleus  Estates  and
Smallholders  I Project  (Loan   1499-IND)  and  Nucleus  Estate  and
Smallholders II Project (Loan 1604-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wofld Ban authofzBtion |



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT (Ln 1499-IWD)
AND
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT (Ln 1604-ND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface  ......     .. .             .   ............................        i
Basic Data Sheets .............................,                             ii
Evaluation Summary.................................................
I. PROJECT FORMULATION.                                                   1
Policy Framework ................     .    . .       . ....          1
Project Objectives.                                                  1
Project Design.                                                      2
Project Scoe.                                                        3
Project Organization.                                                3
Project Preparation.                                                 4
Project Appraisal.                                                   4
II. IMPLEMENTATEON EXPERIENCE.                                            5
Project Implementation.                                              5
Bank Performance.                                                    9
Borrower Performanc.                                                 9
Project Relationship.                                                9
Legal Agreements and Covenants.                                      9
Project Documentation and Reporting .10
III. PROJECT RESULTS .11
Physical Accomplishment    ..11
Agricultural Performance ........................ %                 11
Rates of Return ...........  ...............................       12
Initial Project Impact    ..14
Project Sustainability    ..14
IV. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .15
Preparation and Appraisal .15
Procedures .15
Institutions .16
Smallholder Organizations .16
Settlement Sites .16
Settler Income .17
Smallholder Training .17
Titling, Credit and Cost Recovery .17
Monitoring and Analysis .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationi.



STATISTICi.L ANNEX
Table 1i  Physical Indicators of Project Accomplishment ....                        19
Table 2: Project Costs ....................................                         21
Table 3: Use of Loan Funds ................................                          22
Table 4: Disbursement Schedules ..............                                       23
Table 5: Annual Planting Progress ............ ............                         24
MAPS.. ****,* ******~*** ** *********** * *** ********* ........*..*                 .     IB RD 12723R
12724R
13518R
1i519



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT (Ln 1499-IND)
AND
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT (Ln 1604-ND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report is for both the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders I Project(Loan 1499-IND) and the Nucleus Estate and Smallholders
II Project (Loan 1604-IND). These two projects had similaz objectives and
components; both projects became effective in 1978. The first project was
closed on June 30. 1984 and the second on Decembfar 31. 1986.
This Report was prepared by staff members of the Agricultural
Division. Asia Technical Department (ASTAG), and was reviewed by the staff of
the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department V (AS5AG), both at
Headquarters and in Jakarta.  The information is derived from field visits to
the project sites, the Staff Appraisal Reports (Report No.1465c-IND and Report
No.1950a-IND), Loan Documents, Supervision Reports, official correspondence.
and internal memoranda of the Bank relating to these projects, as well as the
completion reports provided by the Borrower, which are in the Project Files.
This PCR has been read by OED. The draft report was sent to the
Borrower on January 26 for comments; however, no comments were received.



- II -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
(LOAN 1499-IND)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal       Actual or              Actual as X of
Item                                   Estimate     Estimated Actual        ApDraisal Estimate
Total Project Cost (US8 million)            184.0           127.7                      S6
Loan Amount (USS million)                    65.0            698.                      88
Date Physical Components Completed           08/82          18/Sb
Proportion eompleted by Above Date
(Tres Planting) (1)                       10O            112
Economic Rate of Return (U)                  30              14                        42
Institutional Performnce                   Cood            Fair
Number of direct beneficiory families       6,750         5,730                       100
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in US8 million)
FY77    FY78     FY79    FY80    FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Appraisal Estimate (US8 m)    24.0    40.0      64.0    81.0    85.0      -      -      -
Actual (US3 m)                  2.6     9.0     20.7    34.2    40.7   45.0   58.4   68.9a
Actual as % of Appraisal        1l      23       38      S8      83       -      -      -
Estimate (N)
Date of final disbursement    April 1, 1985
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan     Revisions     Actual
Board Approval                                 -           -         11/15/77
Signing                                        -           -         11/18/77
Effectiveness                               01/12/78       -         02/20/78
Closing Date                                06/20/81       -         06/30/84



- iit -
STAFF INPUT
(staff week.)
FY73  FY74  FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY00  FY87 TOTAL
Preapprailsl     .7   .7   8.1  40.0   2.3   1.8    -       -      -     -     -     -     -     -      -    53.2
Appraisal              -     -  103.7  62.6   .4    -       -     -      -     -     -     -     -      -   16f.7
Negotiation      -     -      -     -   21.4   6.0    -     -      -     -     -     -     -     -      -    26.4
Supervision      .8    -     -      -     -   28.1  29.9  29.3  29.2  11.6  14.2  13.0   5.1    .4   .8  162.4
Other            -      .3    -     .1   2.6   .2    -      -     -      -     -     .1    -     -       -    3.4
TOTAL        1.6   1.0   8.1 143.6  79.0  86.0  29.9  29.3  29.2  11.6  14.2  13.1   6.1    .4   .8  402.1
MISSION DATA
Speci*l *112
Date    No. of   tions        Performance        Typos of
Mission        (mo./yr.) Persons  Represented  Rating       Trend Problems
Lb        /c         Id     Is
Identification/
Preparation       05/75      -           -
Appraisal         11/76      8        *,a,c,b,
Supervision   1   04/78      2           c           1         2       FMT
Supervision   2   11/78       3          b           2          1      MT
Supervision   3   03/79      5       b,c,d,a,e       2         1       MT
Supervision   4   02/80      4        b,d,a,c        2         1       MT
Supervision   S   16/80      5       b,d,a,c,d       1         1       T
Supervision   6   04/81      2         d,a,c         2         1       MFT
Supervision   7   11/81      2         da,           2         1       MT
Supervision   8   11/82      3         0a.,c         2         3       MFT
Supervialon   9   03/83      1           a           3         2       MFT
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                         Covernment of Indonesia
Executing Agency:                Directorate General of Estates
Follow-on Project:
Name                              Nucleus Estate and Smaliholders II
Loan Number                       1604-IND
Amount (US$ million)              65.0
Approval Date                    08/29/78
La US88.08 cancelled.
b  a = agriculturist; b = agricultural economist; c = financial analyst; d = agricultural engineer; e   disbursement
specialist.
/   1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problems.
Id 1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating.
e  F = financial; U = managerial; and T = technical.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT
(LOAN 1604-IND)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appralsal       Actual or              Actual ms X of
Item                                   Estimate     Estimated Actual        Appralsal Estimate
Total Project Cost (US8 million)            100.6            87.6                      87
Loan Amount (US$ million)                    66.0            50.6                      78
Date Physical Components Completed           06/83          03/86                       -
Proportion completed by Above Date
(Tree Planting) (%)                       100            87                          _
Economic Rate of Return (N)                  1S              12                        82
Institutional Performance                  Good            Poor                         -
Number of direct beneficiary families    11,3S0           9,649                        84
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ million)
FY80    FY81    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Appraisal Estimate (USS m)                       4.5    14.0    24.0   37.5   68.0   66.0      -
Actual (USS m)                                   3.0     5.3    16.4   26.7   35.3   40.1   60G.GL
Actual as X of Appraisal                         67      38      68      69     61     62      -
Estimate (S)
Date of final disbursement                      May 27, 1987
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan     Revisions     Actual
Board Approval                              06/29/78       -         06/29/78
Signing                                        -           -          07/12/78
Effectiveness                               09/13/78       -         09/13/78
Closing Date                                12/30/83       -          12/31/86



STAFF INPUT
(staff weeks)
FY73  FY74  FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  F.Y88  FY87  TOTAL
Preappraisal     -      -     -     -   37.2   8.6    -            -      -     -               -     -       45.7
Appraisal        -      -     -     -     -   86.1    -      -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -    86.1
Negotiation      -      -     -     -     -   12.2    -      -      -     -     -     -     -      -     -    12.2
Supervision      -      -     -     -     -      .6  17.9  31.6  13.8  13.3  11.4   8.0   4.8   9.2   2.7  112.9
Other            -      -     -     -      .6    .1    -     -     -      -    1.6   3.5    .7    -      -     8.3
TOTAL         -      -     -     -   37.6 108.6  17.9  31.6  13.6  13.3  12.8  11.6   6.6   9.2   2.7  282.2
MISSION DATA
Specializa-
Date    No. of   tions         Performance        Types of
Mission        (mo./yr.) Persons  Represented  Ratinj        Trend Problems
Lb        /c         /d      Le
Identificationj
Preparation       11/78       4          -            _         _       _
Appraisal         09/77       7       S,a,b,c         -         -      -
Supervision   1   07/79       3        b,d,c          1         1      M
Supervision   2   02/80       4       b,d,a,c         1         1      U
Supervision   3   09/80       4       b,d,a,c         1         1      MT
Supervision   4   08/81       2         d,a           2         1      MTF
Supervision   6   02/82       2         a,            2         2      MT
Supervision   6   01/83       2         *,c           2         2       MT
Supervision   7   12/85       a        b,a,c          3         -      UT
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                         Government of Indonesia
Executing Agency:                 Directorate General of Estates
Follow-on Project:
Name                              Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III
Loan Number                       1761-IND
Amount (USS million)              99.0
Approval Date                     08/09/79
Le USS14.5 cancelled.
L a    = agriculturist; b   agricultural economist; c = financial analyst; d = engineer.
Lc 1 = Problem-fre. or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
/d 1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating.
/e F = financial; U = managerial; and T = technical.



- vi -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT (Ln 1499-IND)
AND
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS II PROJECT (Ln 1604-ND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       The two nrojects under review are the first of a series of seven
Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) projects. NES I was approved in
November, 1977 and NES II in June, 1978. Together they involved five state-
owned limited liability plantation companies (PTPs), for operations in the six
provinces of Aceh, Riau, Jambi, South Sumatera, Lampung and West Java. The
target group under the projects was 15.300 settler families and rubber
smallholders.
Obiectives
2.       In accordance with the emphasis in COI's tree crop subsector policy
on expanding agricultural output and work creation in the outer Islands, the
objectives of both projects were similar, namely, to mobilIze the expertise of
state-owned estate companies to help establish smallholdings for landless and
poor settlers on unexploited land suitable for rubber planting. NES II
extended the role of PTPs in smallholder development to include rubber
replanting withi high yielding varieties on existin& holdings. The projects
would generate productive employment at relatively low cost, and raise family
incomes of the landless and near landless poor. GOI required that public
sector estate companies with their technical and managerial expertise be
utilized as nuclei to promote and guide smallholder development. To perform
this role, the PTPs' capabilities were to be strengthened. Production of
smallholdgr rubber and estate rubber. coconuts, and palm oil would be
increased, leading to increased exports and foreign exchange earnings,
contributing to the government policy of promoting non-petroleum exports. The
institution building objectives were (i) strengthening the Directorate General
of Estates (DGE) in project planning and preparation. and implementation and
evaluation of on-going projects; (ii) improving the planning, production and
financial management techniques of the PTP system: (iii) strengthening the
Estates Training Institute (LPP) in NES I to improve management training, and
establishing the Sungai Tiga Training Center under NES II.
Implementation
3.       The implementation period for both projects was to be five years (NES
I 1977178-1982183 and NES II 1978t79-1983/84). While the planting of the
nucleus estate crops proceeded approximately on schedule. both projects were



- vi. -
extended (NES I by two years. and NES II by three years) to allow for the
completion of other components, particularly smallholder development. At
project closing. most of the physical targets set out at appraisal were
accomplished. The smallholder replanting component of NES II encountered
serious problems and was not fully implemented. Parts of the loan proceeds
were cancelled (12 percent of NES I and 22 percent of NES II) due mainly to
devaluation of the local currency.
Agricultural Performance
4.       The revised yield estimates for coconuts and rubber, but not for oil
palm, are considerably lower than the appraisal forecast. On the
smallholdings, only 75 percent of the rubber plantings are currently of fully
acceptable standard, expected to be tappable at about 5 years of age, 13
percent require upgrading to be tappable a year or mere after expectation, and
12 percent need extensive rehabilitation or replanting. Food crop development
for s6ttlers' subsistence neecis and as an additional source of income did not
meet expectations. owing largely to a lack of effective extension.
Rates of Return
5.       The overall economic rates of return of both projects have been re-
estimated in 1988 as 14 percent for NES I and 13 percent for NES It, lower
than estimated at appraisal, when commodity price forecasts were more
favorable. The re-estimated economic rate of return for the smallholder
development component for NES I settlements is 10 percent. compared with 15
percent at appraisal; for NES II settlements, 13 percent. compared with 14
percent. Individually, the Alue Ie Merah Settlement (NES I) has a re-
estimated rate of return of 9 percent, Tebenan (NES I) has a re-estimated ERR
of 11 percent, Bajubang (NES II) 12 percent and Air Molek (NES II) 13 percent.
When current efforts in rehabilitation have been completed, and yields
restored nearer to appraisal levels, the rate of return would be slightly
higher.
Sustainability
6.       Anticipated project benefits could be achieved and maintained if
increased effort is given to full rehabilitation of sub-standard plantings and
to establishment of an effective extension system for tree crop production on
smallholdings.
Lessons Learned
7.       Problems arising from poor coordination among government agencies at
the irplementation level, delayed approval of budgets and release of funds and
cumbersome procurement procedures were not fully appreciated at appraisal. In
the end, project implementation was delayed by as much as 3 years. Inter-
agency coordination has improved in later projects and earlier procurement
bottlenecks have recently been largely removed, but government budgeting and
procurement procedures still merit review.
8.       Institutional weaknesses persisted throughout the implementation
period of the proiects. While the PTPs were required by the DGE to undertake



- viii -
the smallholder development, the terms and conditions had not been clea:ly
specified in advance. In the absence of a clear accountability and incentive
system for rewarding performance, it was difficult to avoid conflicts in the
allocation of scarce staff, financial and material resources between the
estate and smallholder components.
9.       Some of the poor plantings on smallholdings would probably have been
avoided if shortcomings had been detected earlier,through more intensive
physical monitoring. There is urgent nee: for strengthening monitoring
capacity in DGE, and for establishing an independent inspection service to
report on technical aspects of all tree crop development.



I. PROJECT FORMULATION
Policy Framework
1.1      The projects were conceived to assist the Government of Indonesia in
pursuing a policy of diversifying its foreign exchange earnings from the pre-
dominant influence of crude petroleum exports. The tree crop sector with its
great potential was selected as an important investment focus, with Government
assigning priority to smallholder tree crop development in remote areas
through nucleus estates. In this way, marginal land would be utilized,
employment generated, regions developed, rural income raised, and production
base diversified. As part of the Second Five-year Plan, the Government had
decided to put the implementation capacity of its best estate companies into
tree crop development for the settlement of local landless families the provi-
sion of a comprehensive range of tree crop services. These Bank-assis:ed
projects were designed to expand tree crop area in Indonesia while introducing
modern crop varieties and management practices to smallhoiders. They were the
first two of a series of seven Bank-assisted projects on the Nuclens Estate
and Smallholders (NES) model, which were replicated extensively in a wholly
Indonesian funded program in later years.
Project Objectives
1.2      The main objective of the NES I and NES II pro ects was to mobilize
the expjertise of State-owned Estate Enterprises (PTPs)lI to help establish
smallholdings for landless and poor settlers on unaxploited land suitable for
rubber planting. While NES II extended the role of the PTPs in smallholder
developmient to include replanting of rubber on existing holdings. both
projects aimed to enhance the development of human resources: NES I through
reorganization and strengthening of the Estates Training Institute (LPP) to
improve management training, and NES II through assistance for the Extension
Training Center at Sungai Tiga, Jambi, to expand the training of GOI extension
staff and smallholders. Institution building was to include technical
assistance to strengthen the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) and the
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises (SBPN) in the Ministry of
Agriculture. Also included was the expansion and rehabilitation of the state-
owned estate companies, especially PTP XI to prepare it for participation in
further NES projects. Development costs would be minimized, self-help
maximized and direct on-farm costs fully recovered, with a view to
establishing a replicable model for settlement of the rural landless.
1/  Government-owned estate enterprises were previously of two types: the
PNPs (Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan) which were departmental trading
enterprises controlled by the Ministry of Agr.culture, and the PTPs
(Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan) which were limited liability
corporations 'zith the Government as the sole shareholder. All PNPs
have now been converted to PTPs, and PTP is used in this paper to refer
to any state-owned estate corporation.



Proiect Design
1.3      For settlers, both projects aimed to provide a net family income of
USS900 (constant 1977) at full dev- opment and after cost recovery. In addi-
tion to rubber as the cash crop, each family was to be assured of basic food
supplies. An area of 5 ha would be allocated to each settler: 2.0 ha rubber
established and maintained for three years with PTP assistance, 0.2 ha for a
tiouse lot with intensive garden ultivation, and 2.8 ha cleared initially for
rotational food cropping, of which an additional hectare of tree crors could
be planted later from the settler's own resdurces and the remainin3 1.8 ha
retained for food crops. The nucleus estates were to employ one member from
each household on estate work through the 5-6 year period before rubber was
tappable. Social infrastructure at settlement sites would be supplied through
on-going government programs, coordinated by a Provincial Coordinating
Committee, which would also assist in settler selection and, later, deterui.ne
prices to be paid for settlers' rubber sold to the nucleus estates for
processing and marketing.
1.4      To identify participants with their project lands. conditional titles
of ownership were to be issued for their land initially, and unconditional
permanent titles at the end of three years, provided settlers had pertormed
satisfactorily through this probationary period.
1.5     Following titling by Agraria (the government land surveying and
manping agency), the development costs.' duly audited by BPKP (the gover.unent
audit agency), including tree planting costs, housing, a portion of the
infrastructure costs of the settlement, and food crop development through the
first three years, as well as the estimated further costs to bring the rubber
to maturity, were to be converted by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) into
individual smallholder loans. Land titles would be held by BRI until settlers
fulfilled their loan obligations. Repayment was to be collected by BRI as the
smallholders sold their rubber to the PTP processing facilities. With the
yield potential forecast at appraisal, it was envisaged that NtS I
smallholders would be able to repay their credit by delivering 25 percent of
their production to the PTP for a period of 21 years. The interest rate was
nominally set at 12 percent, but a grace period for the first three years, and
simple interest for the next four (until maturity), meant the effective rate
would be less. U:.der NES II, smallholders with new plantings would repay over
19 years, and replanters over 15 years, by delivering 25 percent of their
production. The nominal interest rate was set at 10.5 pe'rcent. Prices were
to be determined according to a formula to be agreed between the DGE. PTP and
PCC. Amounts collected by the processing facilities were to be passed to BRI
as repayments in the settlers' accounts. Settlers were to be free to sell the
balance of their crops wherever they wished, but it was expected that prices
offered by the nucleus estate would be sufficiently above those of local
traders to attract the whole crop and benefit the settlers accordingly.
1.6      The estate components included the expansion of rubber, oil palm and
coconut plantings, both on existing estates and on a new estate for PTP IV in
Riau. Palm oil and rubber processing facilities were to be established or
expanded to enable the estates to process their own and smallholder crops.



-3-
1.7      In order to improve the PTP corporate policy formulation. financial
management and marketing function, NES I provided technical assistance to
strengthen the Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises (SBPN). To perform
its role in coordinating, guiding, monitoring and evaluating the operations of
the PTPs as a group, SBPN was to recruit six specialists in investment plan-
ning and budgeting, financial management, production management, processing,
marketing and quality control through an independent inspection service. RES
II provided for DGE to employ consultants for inspection and advisory duties
specific to PTP IV. PTP XI was to be strengthened in NES I in order to play a
part in future NES-type projects. Also, the Alue le Merah smallholder
development was to be implemented by PTP V and handed back to PTP I when it
had been strengthened under a future project.
Project Scope
1.8      These first two NES projects in the series involved five state-owned
limi.el liability plantation companies (PTP I, V, X and XI in NES I. and PTP
IV .n NES II) for operations in the six provinces of Aceh, Riau, Jambi. South
Sumatera, Lampung and West Java. They were to develop 45,000 ha of high
yielding rubber: 252 on PTP estates and 75Z as new planting for settlers in
the project areas. repiant 7,500 ha of senescent rubber on existing
smallholdings and 3,700 ha on estates (PTP XI), and rehabilitate 13,000 ha of
low yielding rubber for PTP XI. Some 13,350 settler families were to be pro-
vided with an incowe above the national average, and earnings of 3,750
existing smallholders increased. In addition, estate development included
4,200 hia coconut planting and 5,800 ha of oil palm. After postponing the
closing dates, NES I by two years and NES II by three, the overall planting
targets, with the exception of smallholder replanting, wera met. The scope of
the projects as appraised was appropriate to the constraints identified, and
disbursements closely followed the standard profile for Indonesian
agricultural projects at that time. Nonetheless, loan cancellations amounting
to 121 of NES I and 22Z of NES II were necessary, primarily due to three
devaluations of the Rupiah between 1978 and '98X, which reduced overall
project costs by 7Z in US dollar terms. In terms of the Rupiah, costs
increased to 159Z of SAR estimates for NES I and 195Z for NES II.
Project Organization
1.9      The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Projects distinguish themselves
from previous Bank-assisted projects in the tree crop sector in terms of the
project organization. Earlier tree crop projects were implemented by Project
Management Units (PHUs) under Directorate General of Estates. The NES
projects, on the other hand. are implemented by selected public sector estate
companies (PTPs) to take advantage of their staff and financial resources and,
perhaps most significantly, their tecnnical expertise. As state-owned
companies. they are expected to coordinate their project implementation
activities with other concerned government agencies through the the District
Coordinating Committees (DCCs) and Provincial Coordinating Committees (PCCs).
Thus, progress in implementing the non-physical components and some of the
non-tree crop activities depended to a large extent on the effectiveness of
these coordinating committees.



-4..
Proiect Preparation        
1.10     The NES I Project was prepared between 1973 and 1975 by a team of
consultants working with the staff of DGE. In order to address the perceived
need for accelerating the flow of funds into smallholder tree crop development
effort, preparation of the NES II project followed NES I almost immediately.
No lessons had been learned from NES I to benefit the design of NES It. On
the whole, project preparation was reasonably adequate. The capabilities of
the PTPs were examined and considered appropriate for the scale of undertaking
required by the scope of the projects. In NES I. where PTP I had not been
strengthened, its smallholder development site, at Alue le Merah, was first to
be established by PTP V which would eventually turn it over to PTP I. But
project preparation could have devoted more attention to the institutional
aspects of smallholder development.
Project Appraisal
1.11     The appraisal missions were staffed with Bank and consultant
technical specialists, economists and financial analysts. The appraisal
missions identified flow of funds, administrative bottlenecks, timely transfer
of accounts from the PTPs to BRI, ability of settlers to repay investment
costs, and efficiency of PTPs as collection agents, as project risks. GOt
requested the method of cost recovery through credit and was confident that
the nucleus estates would collect smallholder rubber for debt repayment. The
managepenL capability of the Provincial Governments in the extensive role of
settlement planning, settler and replanter recruitment, budgeting and imple-
menting village construction and provision for services for vast numbers of
families would be another project risk, and it was anticipated that close
guidance by the DGE and technical assistance provided under the projects would
be needed. It was ant_cipated at appraisal that some conflicts of interest
between nucleus estates and smallholders would arise, minor through the estab-
lishment phase, but increasing in the production stage when the commercial,
profit-seeking PTPs were to purchase, process and market smallholders' rubber.



- 5-
II. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Project Implementation
2.1      Project design called for PTPs to play a major role in implementa-
tion. PTP IV. PTP V and PTP X had all been strengthened in earlier Bank
projects (Credits 155, 194 and 319-IND) and had proven management and tech-
nical expertise in rubber planting. Ther were therefore selected to implement
the NES I and NES II smallholder components. PTP V participated in Aceh,
although the development area bordered estates of PTP I. The plan was for PTP
V to undertake the establishment phase and then for PTP I, which would have
been strengthened in a later project, to provide processing, marketing and
extension services for smallholders in the mature phase. In fact, PTP V found
it extremely difficult to operate in Aceh, where it had no estate with experi-
enced resident labor and found no skilled labor and few casual workers. Field
results were therefore not of the expected standard. As PTP I was making
progress under NES III project, it took over implementation at Alue le Merah
settlement in 1982. While handover of physical implementation took place, the
formalities of handing over financiaL responsibilities, and the appointment of
PTP I as Project Manager by the Minister of Agriculture were not completed
until a year later. It was difficult for PTP I to operate through the transi-
tion period, with PTP V still responsible for GOI funds, and, in retrospect.
it would have been preferable to strengthen PTP I similar to other PTPs before
starting smallholder development at Alue Ie Merah.
2.2      At the start of project implementation, the PTPs had little
experience in working with settlement of farmers or in community development
beyond the construction of estate villages; they had no staff experienced in
technical extension methods. It was therefore agreed that the projects would
be managed and activities coordinated by a Project Manager representing the
DGE at each project site. The PTPs would enter into contractual agreements
with the DGE for rubber development and infrastructure construction and for
provision of inputs through the immature phase, and would have full authority
for managing these activities within agreed budgets. They would thus not be
burdened with activities in which they had no strength. The DGE would have
primary responsibility for the projects in their entirety. including master
planning and programming, budgets and financing arrangements, and all settler
development activities, in liaison with the PCC and other GOI agencies.
Initially, the Project Managers were appointed by the DGE and reported
directly to him, but, because of slow implementation in both projects, it was
decided that full responsibility for smallholder development should be passed
to the PTPs. In 1979, the NES III Loan Agreement provided that the Project
Managers would be proposed by the PTPs concerned and appointed by the Minister
of Agriculture. In 1980, the NES IV Loan agreement stated definitely that the
First Director of the implementing PTP would be the Project Manager. The NES
I and II Loan agreements were amended in consonance, and the First Directors
of PTP V and X became the Project Managers for the NES I Alue le Merah and
Tebenan smallholder settlements and the First Director of PTP IV the Project
Manager for the NES II smallholder settlement and replanting. The Project
Managers appointed PTP staff as Site Managers and, while the DGE remained
responsible for overall guidance and coordination, PTP staff were to control



-6-
all aspects of project implementation. including coordination of activities by
Provincial Government agencies. The projects thus relied very heavily on the
management and technical capabilities of the implementing PTPs, and the PTPs
were to accept responsibilities beyond their customary role of tree crop
estate development. This was a major change from the arrangement envisaged at
appraisal. It may have succeeded if individual PTPs fully accepted the project
responsibilities, and these were maintained at a level in keeping with their
capacities. In the event, the PTPs found it difficult to undertake the
coordination function, and GOI required the PTPs also to undertake major
developments under domestically financed programs. These overloaded PTP
management and staff. contributing to continued slow progress and to low
quality of smallholder development.
2.3      Although both projects have by and large met the planting targets for
smallholder rubber development set at appraisal. progress with plantings for
smallholders was irregular and only planting at the Tebenan site of NES I
approximately followed implementation schedule. At Alue le Merah settlement
of NES I and both the Air Molek and Bajubang sites of NES II, plantings
continued into the third year beyond the SAR schedule. Not only was progress
slow, the year-to-year variations in area planted were erratic, due to fund
flow problems. Implementation of the smallholder components, which are
central to the objectives of both projects, encountered a whole complex 'of
problems. Recruitment of settlers by local governments was very muca delayed
relative to rubber planting. By the time settlers actually arrived, much of
the land clearance work had already been done by contractors, thereby denying
settlets the intended participation and of some initial employment. This
lowered settler morale and affected the cooperation between settlers and the
PTPs. Budget release problems caused delays in procurement of many items
including herbicides and fertilizers, which adversely affected the growth
rate of the trees. Delayed release of funds for herbicide applications led to
alang-alang problems in some areas. increasing weeding costs and slowing down
tree growth. This in turn delayed commencement of tapping, 'contributing to
problems of credit conversion and cost recovery from the smallholders.
Extensive planted areas, between 10 to 152 of the total, were damaged by wild
animals and had to be replanted. At the Bajubang site for example, some
400-500 ha planted were lost to damage by wild boars and up to 202 of the area
was planted with seedling rubber instead of high yielding cultivars. Land
surveys by Agraria did not proceed as planned, and the presence of large
numbers of squatters at the Alue le Merah site also affected progress. The
projects were extended by two and three years respectively to allow for
upgrading to achieve anticipated production levels.
2.4      The appraisal schedule for the settler housing construction was based
on progress in rubber plantings at each site. As the rate of planting began
to deviate from the original plan, the supply of sntler houses became a
factor in implementation problems. At Tebenan, where planting was on
schedule, housing provision was delayed for three years. There was little
correlation among planting progress, settler recruitment and completed housing
units in most years of project implementaticn. Progress in housing construc-
tion was seriously affected by the slow release of funds which shortened the



- 7-
construction season. and by the lack of agreement among the PTPs, contractors
and BAPPENAS over unit costs. For NES II, a shortfall of over 1000 housing
units, compared to the planting schedule, existed for the later years of the
project. The numbers finally met the appraisal provisions about three years
later than expected. It was originally intended that incoming settlers would
participate on a wage-earning basis in house construction, but Lheir much
delayed arrival meant that housing was actually built by contractors.
2.5      As a result of the changes in l6cation and layout of the settlement
sites during implementation, the quantitative targets of village
infrastructure were revised in agreement with the Bank. Because of
procurement problems arising from the inexperience of project management and
from the complex government procedures. implementation of these physical
components was much delayed and progress was slower than anticipated. Timely
availability of funds was also a serious problem in the infrastructure
program. Despite Bank and borrc-er supervision efforts, the quality of road
construction did not meet with expectations. Proper funding for road
maintenance was also a problem. The plan for potable water supply had to be
altered to suit the requirement of the settlement sites finally chosen.
2.6      The development of food crop areas never received the necessary
attention from the project implementing agencies. which concentrated their
efforts on tree crop establishment. It was appreciated at appraisal that farm
technology packages were not availa6le for sustained food crop production on
soils present in the project areas and, for this reason. the return from food
crops was conservatively estimated and expected to provide mainly for farmers'
own subsistence. It was also noted that improved techniques were expected to
be developed through the program period. -rhe project did not link food crop
development to DGFCA or the national extension service. which at the time of
appraisal was under review for possible reorganization. Inputs were to be
supplied by the nucleus PTPs during tse first years of each settler's
residence. and thereafter under the BDMAS program 2I which was to be extended
to the project areas by August 1979. The PTPs cleared an area of 0.6 ha for
each settler and supplied first year inputs. but the BIMAS program was never
introduced, and no assistance was provided in crop planning and marketing.
There was no organized or intensive cropping of the cleared areas. The food
crop component of the project must therefore be adjudged a failure.
2.7      The smallholder rubber replanting component in NES II tested the
expanded role for nucleus estates, in assisting replanting on existing small-
holdings. dealing with farmers rather than paid estate labor. The result was
not a success. The 4,500 ha replanting component at Bajubang. Jambi, had to
be deleted from the project due to lack of response; and only S52 of the
target 3,000 ha was achieved at Air Molek, Riau, over seven years instead of
the s^heduled four. The failure was due in part to the lack of suitable staff
inputs and commitment by management, but probably equally to the unattractive
level of assistance offered to participants. The project provided for the
nucleus estate to supply material inputs on long-term credit but to assist
with labor only during land preparation, to the extent of 152 of total labor
2/ Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan (Mass Guidance Program for
Self-sufficiency in Foodstuffs): a program for the provision of
seasonal credit in the form of input packages for selected food crops.



-8-
required through the immature period. Farmers were expected to supply the
remaining labor requirement, including regular weeding cver six years. This
they proved unwilling to do. Although it was foreseen at appraisal that some
form of cash incentive might be needed to achieve satisfactory maintenance.
this was not accepted by Government. In view of problems encountered in this
component, it was replaced by 1.200 ha of additional new planting in the
Bajubang area. The Smallholder Rubber Development Project, managed by PHUs,
started in 1980 and also operating ip Riau Province, provided for participants
to be paid half the estimated value of family labor inputs, and proved to be
successful. Subsequent tree crop development on existing smallholdings in
Indonesia has all been implemented by project management units.
2.8      By sharp contrast, the implementation of the estate development
component in both projects progressed more smoothly. The physical targets
were substantially met and some even exceeded appraisal estimates. PTP X's new
rubber and oil palm planting were 932 and 96Z of appraisal targets respec-
tively. Estate rubber replanting (PTP XI) exceeded targets by 26Z, and rehabi-
litation by 312. New rubber planting under NES II (PTP IV) exceeded target by
6Z. For these estate plantings, the PTPs had their own funds, followed their
own procurement procedures, and used their estate laborers who in general were
skilled and disciplined. The rubber factory and two palm oil mills for PTP X
were successfully constructed, but subsequently PTP X experienced severe
difficulties in managing them efficiently. PTP XI constructed three rubber
factories which are performing reasonaLly well.
2.9      Training constituted an important and integral part of both projects.
Under NES I, LPP (Lumbaga Pendidikan Perkebunan, Estates Training Center at
Yogyakarta) waa to be reorganized and strengthened with technical assistance
and staff development, as well as additional buildings. A sub-center of the
LPP would be established in Medan, North Sumatera in closer proximity to the
project sites and the PTPs. The building program was completed in the second
yezr of the project; staff development took place between 1980 and 1982; con-
sultants were recruited in 1979 and worked with LPP until 1982 when further
assistance was made available under NES V. In 1981/82. 15 courses, totalling
179 days, were held. Training at these locations after 1982 was continued
under NES V project support. As PTP IV staff had no previous experience with
smallholder development, NES II provided training for 106 of its staff. The
project also expanded the tree crop training center at Sungai Tiga, Riau.
After the buildings were completed in 1981, a teaching staff of 23 was
appointed to conduct training for settlers and extension agents. Until 1985,
some 3,390 settlers and 520 extension staff were trained in rubber tree main-
tenance and production. However, after that year, training at Sungai Tiga was
discontinued because of the lack of government funding.
2.10     lhe technical assistance program provided by the projects were
generally accomplished. Under NES I, two long-term and five short-term con-
sultants for DGE were hired, but only four of the six long-term consultants
provided for SBPN were recruited and one of them only briefly. This was
because the functions of SBPN, always regarded as a temporary group, were
slowly changed throu&h the project period and, finally, SBPN was abolished in
1983 and its responsibilities were allocated to other agencies. The
consultants accomplished their assignments in improving marketing, investment



-9-
planning and rubber agronomy, but processing. financial control and
information services were not strengthened. NES It provided technical
assistance for DGE and DGH. Most were short-term consultancies and the
Borrower reported that they were effective.
Bank Performance
2.11     The Borrower's completion reports highlighted the significant
contribution by Bank supervision missions. The Bank's strength was seen to
lie in the role played by the Resident Staff in Indonesia in maintaining close
contact with the project implementation agencies at all times and helping to
resolve problems, although their advice might not always have been acted upon
expeditiously. The borrower also acknowledged the critical function of Bank
assistance in developing the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders model for
strengthening the tree crop subsector of the country.
Borrower Performance
2.12     Once the implementation agencies overcame the initial problems of
.ack of familiarity with the innovative project concepts and organization
setting as well as with loan utilization procedures, performance began to
improve, albeit only slowly. At this time, the rapidly expanding land settle-
ment program funded by the Government placed additional demands on the PTPs.
overstretching their absorptive capacity. As the two projects were imple-
mented.by five different PTPs and involved four settlement sites, performance
tended to vary, depending upon the management strength of the organizations
and the quality of the field staff. Co-ordination at the DGE level was
greatly facilitated by the establishment in 1979 of the Special Team for Tree
Crop Projects (Tim Khusus), introduced under the NES III project. A number of
key policy issues affecting the performance of the two projects under review
were subsector-wide issues, and have been the subject of a continuing dialogue
between the Borrower and the Bank. in an effort to seek improvements in the
performance of the tree crop subsector program.
Project Relationship
2.13     Through the staff of the Resident Mission in Indonesia. the Bank
maintained close contact with the Borrower. Relationships between the PTPs
and the government agencies at the provincial and district levels and among
the agencies thr..mselves were very weak throughout the implementation period.
Many of the problems confronted by the projects could be attributed to the
serious lack of coordination.
Legal Agreements and Project Covenants
2.14     The appraisal report was sufficiently detailed to serve as an
adequate and useful implementation guide. The innovative nature of the
projects necessitated frequent changes and adjustments, but these were
generally undertaken within the framework of the SAR. The Borrower in the
main complied with those project covenants relating to the physical and tech-
nical aspects of the project, but compliance with covenants covering organiza-
tional, financial and policy issues was not achieved to a similar extent. For



-10-
example, under the loan agreements, Government agreed to exchange views with
the Bank prior to (i) appointing executive directors of the PTPs; (ii) approv-
ing annual PTP budgets and five-year cash flow forecasts: and (iii) giving
additional financial and management obligations to PTPs X and XI. These
covenants were not met, and the additional obligations given to the PTPs, and
the lack of sound five-year cash flow forecasts, contributed to the current
severe financial difficulties of all the PTPs implementing the projects.
Proiect Documentation and Reporting
2.15     Under the project, a standardized quarterly and annual physical and
financial progress reporting format was introduced. However. the smallholder
accounting system was finalized only in 1983. The PTPs. as project management
entities, maintained adequate accounts and records of physical progress. The
Monitoring and Analysis Division within Tim Khusus collated the data submitted
by the field units to provide project-wide information on physical and finaS.-
cial progress. The information provided by Tim Khusus had generally been in a
fixed tabulated format and only limited analysis and interpretative work was
done. By itself, the information supplied could not be used for quality con-
trol purposes. Furthermore, more training and further strengthening of Tim
Khusus would still be-required to enable- it to conduct an impact evaluation at
the full development stage of the two projects under review.



-11-
III. PROJECT RESULTS
Physical Accomplishment
3.1       The two projects together added 35.000 ha (103Z of appraisal
estimate) of rubber to the productive base of the country, replanted 7.400 ha
(662 of appraisal estimate) of older rubber trees with high yielding
cultivars, and rehabilitated 17.000 ha (1312 of appraisal estimate) of estate
rubber. In addition, 4,600 ha of coconuts and 5,600 ha of oil palm were
planted. A total of 13.900 smallholder families (104? of appra4.sal estimate)
were settled on new lands with rubber established for them, and another 1.360
smallholders bern itted from replanting their existing rubber. For PTP X, one
pilm oil mill was built. another expanded, and a rubber factory established.
One latex concentrate plant and one block rubber factory were constructed for
PTP XI.
Agricultural Performance
3.2      In quality terms, project results from the rubber planting components
of both projects did not fully meet expectatiops. For example, the Borrower's
completion repoet for NES II observes that the implementing agency tended to
ignore soil conservation and drainage requirements, and that the fertilizing
and pruning policies as practised by PTP IV delayed maturity, increased
weeding costs and reduced production potential.. The quality of rubber
plantings remains very variable among sites, and at some, is well below the
expected implementation standards. In 1985, Tim Khusus applied a classifica-
tion system 3/ to assess the quality of established rubber stands. The
results relating to rubber planted under NES I and NES II projects were as
follows:
3/ Under this system, Class A are those of an acceptable standard and
expected to be tappable at about 5-6 years of age; Class 8 plantings
require some upgrading to reach tapping size within 6 months after
commercial expectation; Class C require upgrading to be tappable 12
months or more after expectation, and Class D require extensive
rehabilitation effort or even replanting if they are to become
productive holdings. It should be noted that neither the definition of
the classes nor the results of the classification have been fully
agreed by technical experts. The system is being reviewed by DGE and
Bank tree crop specialists.



-12-
Table I: Percentage Distribution of Rubber, by Class
Class of Plantings
Area      A          B                    Dl     D2
(ha)                   (Percentage)
NES I
PTP XI Nucleus        6,868      64          3          5        17    11
Alue le Merah SH      7,000      63          3          5        13    16
Tebenan SR            4,462      99          0          0         1      0
NES II
PTP IV Nucleus       3,713     100
Air Molek SH (New) 11.400       71         10         10         a      1
(Replanting)     2,548       76          7         5          0    12
Bajubang SH (New)   5t000       so          9          5         6      0
TOTAL NES I & NES II
Nucleus Estates         10,581       77         2          3        11      7
SH All Planting    30.410       75          7          6         7      5
The quality of smallholder plantings at Tebenan is fully satisfactory, but
overall, only about three quarters of the rubber planting on smallholder land
were of commercial standards, and the remaining portions require varying
amounts of effort and investments for rehabilitation (Class Di in table above)
and some of these need replanting (Class D2). As a result of the
rehabilitation and replanting efforts of the PTPs, the finaL. clLssification of
the rubber stands will be somewhat better than the current assessment. Also,
it is important to bear in mind that the present classification system has
been shown to have shortcomings, and is currently being modified to better
reflect planting standards and yield potentials.
3.3      For the estate crops, the revised yield estimates for PTP XI rubber
and for coconuts are considerably lower than appraisal fotecasts. For the
coconut stands planted by PTP XI under the NES I project, the average copra
yield per hectare over 23 years was reduced to 2,636 kg per year. down from
the 4.035 kg per hectare per year estimated at appraisal for high yielding
varieties. Oil palm fared better, with a new estimate only 5z below appraisal
forecast.
Rates of Return
3.4      When re-estimated at project completion, both the economic and
financial rates of return for NES I and NES II are much lower than anticipated
at appraisal. The reductions in the rates of return are mainly due to less
optimistic price projections than at appraisal, and delayed and lower
benefits, particularly in the case of smallholder development. The comparison
between appraisal and completion estimates is set out in the following table.



-13-
Table IM: Comparison of SAR and PCR Rates of Return
ERR                  FRR
SAR       PCR        SAP      P2CR
NiS I J/
Total Project                30        14.3       30         na
Estates PTP X                35        14.7       17         na
PTP XI               41       15.2        29        na
Smallholder                  15         9.7        -        9.5
Alue le Merah                15         8.7       16        8.5
Tebenan                      1S        11.1       17       10.8
NES II
Total Project                1S        12.9        -       11.9
Estate: Air Molek            19        18.3       20       17.8
Smallholder                  14        12.7       15       12.5
Air Molek                     -        13.1         -      12.9
Baju6ang                      -        11.7        -       11.5
/a  The PCR economic rate of return for PTP X estate component was based on
1984 data. This and related figures should not be c.ompared directly with
other calculations which were based on 1988 updated data.
Although both projects failed -o meet appraisal expectations, their economic
rates of return were, noneth.eless, above the generally accepted cut-off rate
of 122 for Bank assisted projects in the tree crop subsector. Furthermore,
the future results of the continuing effort by the PTPs in rehabilitation of
sub-standard plantings will restore the benefit streams to a level nearer that
expected at appraisal. The rates of return at full development of the
smallholder components of these projects would thus be more favorable than at
present.
3.5      The estate development components of both projects fared bett-r, with
economic rates of return re-estimated at completion ranging from 15 to 182.
But in view of the project design calling for involving the technical and
organizational expertise of the PTPs in rubber establishment and the project
concept of minimizing costs but maximizing benefits, the economic performance
of the smallholder development components must be the basis on which the
success or otherwise of the two projects must be judged.



-14-
3.6      The economic rates of return for the smallholder settlement
development activities are considerably lower than the estate plantings, a
result forecast ;.t appraisal. However, for the smallholder components, three
settlement investments had economic rates of return below the 122 threshold.
The Alue le Herah settlement component had a re-estimated ERR below 102. It
should, however. be noted that conditions at Alue le Merah were particularly
difficult in the first years of the project, but significant improvements
occurred toward the end of the NES I project and this trend is continuing.
Initial Proiect Impact
3.7      Notwithstanding the delay in implementation and the lack of attention
to quality of smallholder rubber plantings, the two projects enhanced the
production base of rubber, coconuts and oil palm of the country, increased the
processing facilities of the two PTPs under NES I and provided an improved
standard of living for most of the smallholder participants. Although no
formal impact survey has been conducted, field records maintained by
settlement officials at Alue le Merah, for example, indicated that the average
household income of the settlers. before cost recovery payments, is already
higher than the national average for rural areas. There is field evidence to
suggest that non-agricultural employment opportunities, an indirect project
benefit. are beginning to emerge.
Proiect Sustainabilita
3.8      Project appraisal identified the sustaining of rubber yields and
smallholder benefits as a risk, but that fertilizer applications and rubber
maintenance in the first three years and supervision of all application of
inputs to maturity by the PTPs woul  i.nimize the danger.  Parts of the
planted area had indeed been affectea by precisely this problem. Furthermore,
in the smallholdings, overtapping of rubber trees was emerging as a problem
towards the end of the implementation period, threatening the productive life
of the rubber trees. Mature phase extension has been identified as a priority
for attention in order to ensure that the benefits of the investments are
captured. This issue will be addressed in the NES Phase II operation under
preparation.



-15-
IV.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
4.1      The projects under review were innovative in enlisting state-owned
plantation companies to play a major role in establishing rubber stands for
landless settlers and replanting low grade rubber trees for smallholders.
However. during implementation numerous problems relating to the non-estate
smallholder development activities were encountered, most of which are
attributable to institutional weaknesses of the agencies involved and to
smallholder development capabilities of the PTPs. By the early 1980s,
additional demands placed on PTPs to implement GOI-funded programs began to
strain the absorptive capacities of the PTPs. The unf;olding experience of
these NES-type projects shows that the management and financial capacities of
the PTPs were overstretched. But the central tenet of assisting low-income
groups to participate in the tree crop sector and smallholders to upgrade low-
yielding trees are not in dispute.
4.2      Since 1983, the Bank has not made new loans under the NES format, as
attention was focussed on efforts to improve and accelerate implementation of
the on-going program. and new tree crop lending was re-oriented towards the
PMU approach, which had subsequently been proven successful. For on-going NES
projects, the Bank recpntly (December 1987) outlined to GOI a series of
remedies to improve the performance of tree crop projects.  These included
addressing the issues of authority of the DGE, improved PTP management,
adequate unit costs for newly planted areas, the quality of road access to
smallh6lding sites, timely release of funds. and setting up an independent
inspection service. The NES Phase II operation currently being prepared is
expected to address outstanding issues and consolidate the gains made so far.
Preparation and Appraisal
4.3      In retrospect, project preparation and appraisal did not appreciate
fully the complexity of the budgetary and procurement procedures of the
Government. To a considerable extent, despite the efforts'of successive
supervision missions to insist on timely compliance of agreements relating to
smallholder development, it was these procedural complexities that caused the
delay in project implementation by as much as three years and may have led to
the poor quality of plantings.
Procedures
4.4      The complexity involved in fund flows, contract and procurement
procedures of the Borrower, which are considerably different from the Bank's,
resulted in the implementation schedule being overly optimistic. Both
projects eventually had to be extended to allow physical targets to be
accomplished. During the implementation period of NES I and NES II. GOI
procurement policy and procedures underwent several changes, but the process
of budget approval and fund release was not simplified.
4.5      Streamlining of GOI procedures remains an urgent issue for attention.
Appraisal of later projects has been cautious in scheduling disbursements, but
implementation scheduling also needs to be more realistically assessed in the
future in the light of experience with the closed and on-going projects.



-16-
Institutions
4.6      The NES model for smallholder development necessarily involved many
agencies. but the mixture of central and provincial governmental departments,
commercial banks, and profit-oriented plantation companies in the projects
compounded implementation problems. Meshing the management style and
procedures of the PTPs with the new demands of the Government-sponsored
smallholder development program remained a problem through the implementation
period of these projects. Implementation and management of the smallholder
development component involved a large number of government organizations with
different levels of authority. The close coordination that was needed between
the PTPs and government agencies was not always achieved. Following the
establishment of Tim Khusus in DGE under the NES III project, coordination in
implementation was improved. During the project implementation period, a
joint review by Bank and GOI led to a set of minutes of understanding among
the Ministries of Agriculture. Finance, Home Affairs, and BAPt'ENAS which set
out the responsibilities of the agencies concerned with various implementation
issues and procedures.
4.7      While the PTPs have technical expertise in tree crop establishment
and production, they should not be seen as the, sole avenue for smallholdgr
development. When their capacity has become overstretched, other forms of
organizational arragements should be explored at the earliest opportunity.
Smallhqlder Organizations
4.8      Organization among smallholders was slow to evolve, although the
settlers are now being organized in farmer groups (Kelompok Tani) of 20 to 30
members. Without sound organization among the settlers, delivery of govern-
ment services such as extension, inputs and marketing are not efficient and
cost effective. PTPs are commercial enterprises and as such have limited
expertise among their staff in developing and promoting social organization.
Because of lack of coordination. government agencies with experience in this
field were not able to provide the service at the time when it was most
needed.
4.9      Smallholder organization is essential for transfering some of the
development functions to the settlers and for more cost effective delivery of
services still required. But in the absence of a clear policy on the
direction in which these settler level organization should evolve, particu-
larly their conflict with Government objectives for the KUD cooperatives, it
will be difficult to accelerate the process. The German Government is
currently providing assistance to resolve these issues.
Settlement Sites
4.10     The NES I project included the Alue le Merah site which was part of
an existing GOI scheme that was experiencing difficulties before project
start-up. Under NES II, the Bajubang site also had technical and
environmental problems that were only gradually being resolved during
implementation. Developing new settlement areas on marginal land, and
balancing the relative needs of tree crops and food crops, will always entail
some risks and unanticipated difficulties. Even if exact locations could not
be de'fined at appraisal, the finalization of village locations should have
been achieved expeditiously.



-17-
Settler Income
4.11     The projects aimed at providing the smallholders with an adequate
income before the rubber trees matured. By providing employment at the
settlement sites, settlers were to receive an income and meet their
subsistence needs from the food crop areas. The slow pace of development in
food crop production and the PTPs' preference to sub-contract much of the land
clearance and infrastructure construction work, forced some settlers to find
employment elsewhere, but some found work with the contractors. Absence c'
settlers from smallholdings was detrimental in the maintenance of the young
trees for lack of adequate on site labor from the settler families. While the
?TPs are technically competent in tree crop development, promotion of food
crops is not their forte. Food crop extension has to be provided by another
agency (DGFCA) and close coordination has to be maintained at all times. A
joint decree defining the responsibilities of DGE and DGFCA was issued only at
the end of 1984 but owing to the difficulties in defining and coordinating the
responsibilities and inputs of the various extension agencies at the farm
level, detailed operational guidelines are still to be finalized.
4.12     Bearing in mind that tree crops take several years to provide an
income for the settlers, adequate sources of employment and income generation
opportunities during the establishment period are absolutely essentiai if the
morale of settlers is to be maintained at a high level.
Smallholder Training
4.13     Insufficient training and extension led to low quality of rubber
stands and harmful production practices. Both projects provided that the
implementing PTPs would train participants in rubPber husbandry and ultimately
in tapping. This training was normally provided on an 'on-the-job' basis. as
settlers were required to underta' each operation.  NES It supplemented this
by expanding the Sungai Tiga Training Center to conduct courses for the
settlers. But by the time the activities at the center were terminated, only
41Z of the settlers at the Air Molek site had attended the short 5-day
courses. Significant areas of project plantings are still immature and many
settlers require training in tapping. It is perhaps not surprising that the
standard of tree maintenance on smallholdings is generally low and inadequate
tapping skills and discipline have emerged as serious problems confronting
project sustainability. Project management is planning to redefine the role
of the field staff originally assigned to supervise land 'clearance and tree
establishment to undertake extension activities.
4.14     Settlers are almost by definition unfamiliar with tree crop
maintenance and production practices. While it would not be appropriate to
include tree crop skills in the eligibility criteria, adequate training is
essential. Given the difficulties in maintaining training centers, the on-
site training alternative should be enhanced.
Land Titling. Credit Conversion and Cost Recovery
4.15     Project appraisal assumed that land titling would be done within
three years after planting, but delays have occurred and it is not being
achieved until after maturity. Recent recalculations, taking into account
current price projections, indicate that the smallholders with new plantings
of a fully satisfactory standard would need to deliver about 30 percent of
their production to achieve repayment over 19 years -- those with Class B



-18-
holdings would achieve repayment over 22 years. If lower quality holdings
were to be converted, an appropriate adjustment to the credit recovery
requirement would be needed, reflecting the reduced productive value of the
holdings. Appraisal did not anticipate the possibility that some smallholder
plantings might not achieve the acceptable yield standard; nor were the
institutional complexities of the cost recovery mechanism fully. appreciated.
All aspects of the credit recovery system, particularly the establishment of
smallholder loan accounts and the creation of the infrastructure needed by BRI
to administer these accounts, are currently under intensive review by
Government, in an effort to accelerate the conversion process.
4.16     Smallholder gross revenues are also dependent on the rubber price
offered by the PTP processing facilities. Under both projects. the nucleus
estates were required to offer prices equal to about 70 percent of the FOB
price; under NES II. it was further envisaged that PTP IV, the Provincial
Coordinating Committee, and DGE would, in consultation with the Bank, agrne
upon a pricing formula. A Ministerial decree establishing such a formula was
issued in January 1988. The detailed DGE regulations to give full effect to
the Ministerial decree are at an advanced stage of drafting.
MonitorinR and Analysis
4.17     While the Monitoring and Analysis Unit within Tim Khusus performed
well and greatly facilitated the supervision process of both DGE and the Bank,
the st4ffing of the unit has become increasingly inadequate for the expanding
portfolio of tree crop projects and for the range of responsibilities assigned
to it outside its main supervision function. Apart from coordinating the
reporting for foreign-assisted tree crop projects. the Monitoring and Analysis
Unit has responsibility for monitoring progress under all Government-funded
NES/PIR projects. Its manpower resources are already overstretched. If
additional strengthening is not provided, the quality of its services will
further decline. As the Unit is also expected to expand its functions to
undertake impact evaluation and project related studies, additional
appointments and accelerated training for its key staff members are urgently
needed.



-19-
Table I
Page I of 2
STATISTICAL ANNEX
PHYSICAL INDICATORS OF PROJECT ACCOMPLISHMENT
NES I PROJECT
Unit    Appraisal      PCR         PCR as 2
Estimate   Actual         of SAR
Estates Development
PTP X
Rubber (New Plantiug)         ha       3.300        3,083          93
Oil Palm Planting             ha        5,600       5,581          96
Oil Palm Mills e                            2           2         100
Rubber Factory                 t            1           1         100
PTP XI
Rubber (Replanting)           ha        3,700       4,647         126
Rubber (Rehabilitation)       ha      13,000       16,968         131
Coconut Planting              ha        4,200       4,583         109
Rubber Factories               1            3           3         100
Smallho.lder Rubber
Alue le Merah (PTP I)          ha        7,000       7.000         100
Tebenan (PTP X)                ha        4,500       4,462          99
Settlement Component
Alue le Merah:
Smallhoder Beneficiaries      hh       3,500        3,500         100
Village Settlements            1           21          13          62
Settler Houses                 t       3,500        3,500         100
Food Crop Area                ha       9,800        z,365          24
All Weather Roads             km           44           -           0
Village Roads                 km           84          35          42
Primary Rubber Access Rd      km          14           12          86
Secondary Rubber Acc. Rd      km         164           70          43
Field Tracks                  km         105          148         141
Shallow Wells                            750          750         100
Tebenan:
Smallholder Beneficiaries    hh        2,250        2,231          99
Village Settlements            I           14           5          36
Settler Houses                 I       2.250        2,250         100
Food Crop Area                ha       6,300            -           0
All Weather Roads             km           24           0           0
Village Roads                 km           46           0           0
Primary Rubber Access Rd      km            9           9         100
Secondary Rubber Acc. Rd      km         100          200         200
Field Tracks                  km          70          225         250
Small reservoirs               f            -         104           -
Shallow Wells                  I            -         450           -



-20-
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
NES 1I PROJECT
Unit   Appraisal        PCR      PCR as Z
Estimate       Actual      of SAR
Estate Development PTP IV
Air Molek
Rubber (New Planting)         ha       3,500        3,713          106
Staff Houses                   t       1,518          220           15
Project Buildings              I          45           65          144
Estate Roads                  km            -        75.3            _
Smallholder Rubber
Air Molek (New Planting)      ha      11.400       11.378          100
(Replanting)     ha       3.000        2.548           8S
Bajubang (New Planting)       ha       3,800        5,000          132
(Replanting)      ha        4,500         172            4
Settlement Component
Air Molek,Riau
Smallholder BenefLciaries   hh        7.200        6,963           97
Settlement Villages           t          29           30          103
Settler Houses                        5 5,700      5.700          100
Food Crop Area               ha       2,280        3,420          150
All Weather Roads            km       107.5        119.2          111
Primary Village Roads        km        56.1         43.6           78
Secondary Village Roads      km        72.8         66.8           92
Rubber Collection Tracks    km        372.5        379.4          102
Wells                         I       1,140          470           41
Bajubang.Jambi
Smallholder Beneficiaries  hh        4,150        2.586           62
Settlement villages          t          12           15          125
Smallholders                hh       2,586        1.898           73
Settler Houses               I       2,500        2,500          100
Food Crop Area              ha         760        1,440          189
Main Access Roaas           km        33.0         31.9           96
Primary Village Roads       km        10.3         10.0           97
Secondary Village Roads    km         36.0         23.6           66
Wells                        t          124         150          121
Main Access Roads           km           33        31.5           95
Village Access Roads        km          46         41.8           91
Staff/Labor Houses           1         343           58           17



-21-
Table 2
PROJECT COSTSs NES I
Proiect Component         SAR Estimate       PCR Actual   PCRISAR
Nucu  E(US$ million)         (percentage)
Nucleus Estates
PTP X                     30.6             30.2           99
PTP XI                    24.0             28.7          120
Subtotal                  54.6             58.9          108
Smallholders4/
Alue Is Merah             15.3             31.6          207
Tebenan                   10.2             27.2          267
Subtoital                 25.5             58.8          231
Technical Assistance
DGE                        1.9              1.7           89
MOA                        3.8              3.5           92
LPP                        2.8              4.8          171
Subtotal                   8.6             10.0          116
Contingencies                 45.3              -
Total Project Cost           134.0            127.7           95
PROJECT COSTSs NES 1I
SAR            PCR          PCR as Z
Proiect Component           Estimate         Actual         of SAR
CUSS million)          (percentage)
Nucleus Estate               8.1            19.7            232
Smallholders
Air Molek,Riau            32.1
Bajubang,Jambi            12.0
Rubber Replanting,Riau    2.1
Rubber Replanting,Jambi   3.1
Subtotal                  49.6            65.9            133
Technical Assistance
DGE                       2.1
Sungai Tiga Center        0.6
DGH                       0.2
Subtotal                  2.9             2.0             69
Contingencies               39.9               -
Total Project Cost         100.5            87.6             87
4/ GOI portion of actual costs not yet finalized, pending audit as part of
conversion process.



-22-
Table 3
USE OF LOAN FUNDS: NES I
SAR Estimate    PCR Actual      PCR/SAR
(US$ m)     2     (USS m)   2   Percentage
Category
Civil Works            14.80    23       13.84   21       94
Vehicles & Equipment  16.00    25        10.74   17       67
Agro-chemicals         12.19    19        9.76   15       80
Planting Costs         12.52    19      14.17   22       113
Consultant Services    8.49    13         8.11   12       96
Overseas Training       0.30    -         0.30           100
Base Costs      64.30    99       56.92   88        88
Contingencies           0.70     1         -
Cancelled Amount                          8.08   12
Total Costs    165.00   100       65.00  100
USE OF LOAN FUNDSt NES II
SAR Estimate    PCR Actual        PCRISAR
CateRorY                  (USS mn)   2     (USS m)    2    Percentage
Civil Works              12.8    20       17.55   27      137
Equipment                 5.4     8        1.59    2       29
Agro-chemicals            4.5     7        1.63    3        36
Rubber Development       19.5    30       29.03   45      149
Consultant Services       1.8     3        0.70    1       39
Base Costs          44.0    68      50.50   78       115
Contingencies            21.0    32           -
Cancelled Amount            -             14.50   22
Total Cost           65.0   100      65.00  100



-23-
Table 4
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
NES I PROJECT
SAR Estimate               PCR Actual
Cumulative                Cumulative
USS m    Percentage       USS m   Percentage
GOI FY
1977/78               6.5         10             1.2          2
1978/79              26.5         41             4.6          7
1979/80              45.5         70            10.1         16
1980/81              56.5         87            21.8         34
1981/82              62.5         96            34.8         54
1982183              65.0        100            41.2         63
1983/84                                         46.8         72
1984/85                                         56.9         88*
' The remaining US$8.08 million, or 12 2 was cancelled in June. 1985.
NES II PROJECT
SAR Estimate                PCR Actual
Cumulative                  Cumulative
USS m    Percentage        USS m      Percentage
GOI FY
1978/79               2.0         3               -            -
1979/80              12.0        18              0.52          1
1980/81              21.0        32              2.43          4
1981/82              34.0        52              5.25          8
1982183              51.5        79             16.41         25
1983/84              65.0       100             24.69         38
1984/85                                         35.24         54
1985/86                                         40.08         62
1986/87                                         50.50         78*
* The remaining US$14.5 million, or 222 was cancelled in March 1983.



Table S
Pag* 1 of 3
-24-
ANW4AL PLUNTING PROGRESS
NES I
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1960/S1  1961/02  1982/83  1983/84  1984/86    TOTAL
ESTATES DEVELOPMENT:
RUBBER PLANTING (he)
(PTP X. Lampung & S.Sumetre)
SAR Estimate                          695     1869      1150     17        137       !6                         4100
PCR Actual                           1670     1153       330                                                     3063
SAR Cumulative                        S95     2434      3034     3301      3930     4100                         4100
PCR Cumulative                       1670     2763      30t3     3083      3083      3083                        30S3
PCR as X SAR Cumulative               284      111        eS        81       73       7t                           75
RUBBER PLANTING (he)
(PTP XI, West Java)
SAR Estimate                          702      760       839      563       829                                  3713
PCR Actual                            t16     1313      1694      418                 So7                        4647
SAR Cumulative                        702     1482      2301     2864      3713                                  3500
PCR Cumulative                        715     2026      3722      4140     4140      4647                        3713
PCR as X SAR Cumulative               102      139       162       144      112       106                         106
OIL PALM PLANTING(he)
(PTP X, Lampung A S.Suuetra)
SAR Estimate                         1000     2000      2000                                                     6000
PCR Actual                           1707     1986      19J6                                                     6630
SAR Cumulative                       1000     3000      5000                                                     6000
PCR Cumulative                       1707     3896      5630                                                     6830
PCR as X SAR Cumulative               370      168                                                                 113
COCONUT PUANTING(ho)
(PTP XI. West Java)
SAR Estimate                           80     1006      1064     1070      1072                                  4232
PCR Actual                             44        0      1682      1487     1070       300                         S6e
SAR Cumulative                         30     1036      2090     316O      4232                                  4232
PCR Cumulative                         44       44      1726      3213     4263      4563                        4683
PCR as t SAR Cumulative               147        4        63       102      101                                   108
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT:
RUBBER PLANTING (ha)
(Alue I- Mersh Settlement)
SAR Estimate                          500     1250      1500      1675     1876                                  7000
PCR Actual                            382      273       194      1687     1764       56e     1366       636      7000
SAR Cumulative                        500     1750      3250     5126      7000                                  7000
PCR Cumulative                        382      a6S       849      2436     4190      4768     8112      7000     7000
PCR as X SAR Cumulative                76       37        26        46       6o        68       87       100      100



Table 5
Peg. 2 of 3
-26-
(NES LIMPLEVENTATION DETAILS-.CONTD)
1977/73  1970/79  1979/80  1900/61  1981/82  1962/83  1983/84  1994/65    TOTAL
SIALLJOLDER OEVELOPENT:
RUBBER PLANTING (he)
(T-benen Settlement)
SAR Estimate                         600     1000     iS60      1500                                         4*00
PCR Actual                           472     1000     150       1361      is7                                 450
SAP Cumultiv*                        500     1500     3000      4600                                          4500
PCR Cuulative                        472     1472      2972     4333     4500                                 4600
PCR *as   SAR Cumulative              94       9         99       go                                           100
SVALLHOLDER HGUSE CONST.
(Alu- Ie Merih Settlement)
SAR Estimte                          250      625      750       937      938                                 3500
PCR Actue                              0        0      750      1250                        1500              3500
REQT per Planting Schd               191      136        97      794      877      283       67J      444     3S50
RE4T Cumulative                      260      386      468      1277     2154     2437      3115     3659     3569
PCR Cumulative                                          760     2000     2000     2000      3600              3600
PCR aS   RF0t                          O        0       15      157       93        82      112                98
SMALLH0LDER HOUSE CONST.
(Tebenan Settlement)
SAR Estimate                         260      500       750      750                                          2250
PCR Actual                             0        0         0      750     1500                                 2250
REQT per Planting Schd               236      500      760       660       84                                 2260
REQT Cumulative                      236      736      1466     2100     2260                                 2250
PCR Cumulative                         0        0        0       760     2250                                 2250
PCR Ua   REQt                          0        0        0        35     1t0                                   100



Tablo 5
Page*  3Of 3
-26-
ANNUAL PLANTING PROGRESS
NES II
1979/80  1980/81  19S1/82  1982/83  1983/84  1964/65  1985/86  1986/37    TOTAL
NUCLEUS ESTATE RUSBER(ha)
SAR Estimate                          250      600       760      1000     1000                                  3500
PCR Actual                           17        179     1297       334     1643       186                        3713
SAR Cumulative                        260      750      15m0     2600      3600                                  3500
PCR Cumultive                         167       346     1643      1977     3625      3714                         3713
PCR as   SAR                           ST       46       110        79      101       106                          tO0
SMALLUJOLDER NEW PLANTING
SAR Estimate                         1460     2200      3050     3800      4700                                  15200
PCR Actual                           1163      1806     2400      6493      600     368         149      152    16400
SAR Cumulative                       1450     3650      6700    10500    16200                                   15200
PCR Cumultive                        1163     2966      5368    11661    12461    16096    162468    1400    16400
PCR as X SAR                           o0        81       80       113       62       106       107      106       106
REPLANTING (AIR HOLEK)
SAR Estimate                            -      500       750      1000     1000                                  3250
PCR Actual                              -      500       510       518        -                                   1534
SAR Cumulative                          -      500      1260     2260      3250                                   3250
PCR Cumultive                           -       500     1016      1534     1534                                   1634
PCR as A SAR                            -       100       61        6s       47                                     47
SMALLHOLDER HOUSE CONST.
SAR Estimate                          725     1100      1626      1900     2350                                   7600
PCR Actual                            725      1100     1625         -      800      2500     1550                8200
REQT per Planting Schd                6o1      903      1200      3246      300      1819        75       76      8200
REQT Cumulative                       681     1484      2664      6930     5230      8049     8124      8200      8200
PCR Cumulative                        726      1826     3350      3360     4160      665O     8200      8200      8200
PCR as % REQT                         126       123      127       s5        67        83       101      100       100



A,~~~~~~ -XN                                                                             ) - v; nv ,*   ,  73'>hlsbe,9      \' 
t ,,  +,D       O       { ' sE     S     l-A                                                                                   /
9732       
INDONESIA
Nucleus Estates & Smaliholders Project I
Alue t,mmah Settlement Aree in Aceh
S   P   E   C   I                     T    E      R\    I  T   0   i    Y             A   C   E
rt                              ,                     WW., S.*W wX. 
(o eomw  ofl go
end 0        , lm   6Wndri
C_' mit  sm.nt                          \ e         .m
W amCD not. a V                                     .          1     2      3      4      5___________
pI dV Zte IWte*ad gd                            /                    KILOMETERS
A tr.^_rn     e m Ve W oh"                           0                     2          3            I                                                  .
2   _fnw      v m                                                          Aa MILES                            _                 ____________.rsr
_ _ sr32                   ,                        '      vr,3 _97 .                                97s40                                             974d      C,
VD



2  4 4    * t KILOMETERS                       / j                                                   10I -                                     ' r        \  s. rn            w; <FU           *K               S                          IBRD 12724
O     i     4     6 MIIES                                                                                                                                                                  A   'A -  ''  A%?),'  ..  ?.-'
Robot |t  BETUNG OIL PALM ESTATE                                                                                                                       r ,|.
PROPOSRO GOVRMEB ibt~                                                                                                                                         /        I~0                                             
OLPALM PROIEDT                                                                                                                       0                                                                            NOIEOLMEUEI
N~~~~~N
Oalonatioagi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
f  +         _      ~~~~~rabwmudihs.
0              v                                                        n      s-g                                     
Kepak4ana            t03      a binei' ,9                                                                                                                         '        ^'-_
INDONESIA                           2\                                            wS                           \       |              2       .- N                   '           -
Nucleus Estotes & Smoliholders Project I                                                                                                           t J               
P I.LP X Project &Tebenan Settlement Project                   -Xr                                                                               _ t                          -  
Tebenan Setttement Project                            t                                       
Y:]PlmttOtrzioEs                                                  - :r
1 Kedoton, heradquartrse                                                          
-5 ~~~~2 Bergen   vuwr
3 Trikar1 a                                                                                                                           \s             \ 9
i Riiejosari                                                                       rl12                                                                       > 
I Way Limo./                                                                                                                                              n      
B Tangkit Seranlxg                                                                                                          l      ni_                             S- 
Nuceu    Esaesr &  Smaslholdrs Project,
Pl taPagirolm                          -        sn---
14 KallaJndoJ                           .. |                                                                                                                                                                                17 RlEts    ME  ' e   
A      KeNatorh(rubber actory)              -     - Rivers
IEBetungOiltPlmEstate
0         20        *0        60        80        100                                                                                                            ,-,(_ r r
KILOMETERS                                                                                                            .                               ' '--.                                                   -
.   0               20               40              60-                                                                                                                                                '
I                        MliEs                                                                     lo,r 1MILES                                                                                                            JAWA
MAY l89i



INDONESIA                            \  "A            J A'
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS 11 PROJECTr_--
JAMBI PROJECI AREA
- ROJECT ROUNDARY
EXISTING ROADS />ttIj\i a
PROPOSED MAIN ACCESS ROADS
PROPOSED PRIMARY VILLAGE ROADS
PROPOSED SECONDARY VILLAGE ROADS
cO  TOWNS AND VILLAGES
=_RIVERS _5  , ;  9
mlf ES
,o ..                  /   .-               . M,S                                                           -
4, .:e  - / i--
"-  )/-                      ,   .0                       /                                        ,)
_-                                                                                               ,osow }& 
\ / \ K |UB^G ~~~~~~~~~~I                                            ;               LARA
W\ ~~~~~ ~~ > A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - \ ; AWA;~~~~~~KE
f  _  _r ow, of                                                                                  ,                                                   .  'R 
Yf _ Wo V"                                                                                 .                                                              4.,
PwFIft dm A.b= .W , 



'  135319R
3    -s                      ->  KTd <N
If
S~~~~~~~ma~ ~ ~ ~ ~
!~~~~~~~~~~~I MOE PRJC AR'EA
EOA.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EITN OD
0>1    W                        ,,,, 11    '    X                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1
T011                 \,                              SECODAR  VIlG  ROADS
\S ,,.  ,> %    1% 
I         AIR MOLIITAIRMOLEK-EAST
RE/                         I                 M INDONESIA
t    =   X     \             ~~~~~NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER 11 PROJECT
z    >t                                 ~~~~~~~~~AIR MOLEK  PROJECT AREA
=b)  ~AIR MOLECK-WEST                                    PROJECT OUNDARY
-  10 PM  R   - - ~~ ~ EXSIG  OD
*s  st                 * * ' ' ~~~~~~~~UPCRADING TO IAAN ACCESS ROADS
PRdIMARY VILLACO ROADS
\ TO                      _         --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SE-CONDARY VILLAGE ROADS
i _^J X ~~~~~~AIR MOLEK             .TOWfNS AND VILLAGES
D \<V osx,9                                K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MlltESER
%~~~~~~~o 0 M-' ct f   t .WF 



