Report No. 1465c-IND
Indonesia  Nucleus Estates and Smailholders I
Project                                                                               FILE COPY
(In Four Volumes)
Volume 11: Planning and Implementation
October 31, 1977
General Agriculture Division
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
1-his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -   Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           =   RP 415
Rp 1           =   US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000       US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg) = 1,000 grams (gm) = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton    =  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Adat                   - Body of traditional law
Agraria                - Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
Alangalang             - A coarse grass, establishing itself after the
slash and burn cycle
Bina Marga             - Directorate General of Highways
Bupati                 - District Chief Executive
Department Kesehatan  - Department of Health
Desa                   - Village
Dokabu                 - District Health Officer
Dukuh                  - Hamlet of 25-30 houses
Dukun                  - Traditional midwife
Gabah                  - Unhusked rice
Gotong-royong          - Community self-help project
Hak Pakai              - Individual's right of use or exploitation of
assigned land
Hak Milik              - Right to full ownership of land
'Kabupaten             - District
Kecamatan              - Subdistrict
Marga                  - Community grouping under Adat Law
Mushalla               - Small prayer house
Mantri                 - Male nurse
Puskesmas              - Community Health Center, subdistrict level
Promokesa              - Village Health Promoter
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
List of Enclosed Documents
Al     Project Area
A2     Settlement Planning, Layout, Infrastructure, and Roads
A3     Rubber Development:
1. Terms of Reference for Rubber Contractor for
Development and Provision of Services.
2. Draft Contracts
A4     Guidelines for Selection and Recruitment of Settlers.
A5     Field Technology Rubber, Coconuts, Oil Palms.
A6     Processing Technology and Estate Engineering
A7     World Production and Exports of Oil Palm.
A8     Technical Assistance to Director General of Estates in
Project Planning, Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation.
A9     Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises.
A10    Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture for
the Estates Training Institute.
All   Project Implementation Schedules.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disebued witbout World Bank authorization.






ANNEX I
Section Al
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Area
Subprojects Description
1.        New Settlement - Alue Iemerah, Aceh.  A gross area of about 21,000 ha,
mainly belonging to the Provincial Government, about 89 km from the town of
Langsa, located in the region of East Aceh, within the province of Aceh (Map
1).  The project area is linked to the main regional road by an unsurfaced
but well maintained road also utilized by the PNP I Julo Rayeu Estate. Social
facilities in the area are at low level. Primary jungle covers about 40% of
the land surface; the remaining vegetation consists of lalang grass /1 (30%),
secondary jungle (20%) and smallholdings (10%). Soil and land capability
studies conducted by consultants over 30,000 ha revealed sandstone and shale
derived soils of low to moderate quality, suitable only for tree crops on a
continuous cropping basis. A net plantable area of 17,500 ha well drained
land, of slope less than 12 , has been derived by reducing the gross area by
about 15% to allow for inferior land, water courses, villages and roads. Mean
annual rainfall varies between 2,000-2,500 mm with the driest part of the year
during February-April. According to the available data, only 2,000 families
live within an area encompassing the subproject area and 3 km around its
periphery. It will therefore be necessary to recruit project participants
from outside the immediate project area. The population of Aceh is predomin-
antly rural and amounts to 2 million people. In view of the poverty of the
population and the lack of other opportunity, there should be no difficulty
in recruiting potential settlers. The provincial authorities also intend
that about 10% of the settlers would be transmigrants from Java. The local
farmers in the subproject area are largely involved in wet rice production,
the average rice area per family being 0.6 ha. Only 500 smallholders in the
area grow rubber with average holdings of 1.3 ha. Available data show that
smallholder agriculture in the area is at a low level, the estimated gross
value of production from the average rice farm being US$250 per year. The
subproject area is adjacent to the PNP I Julo Rayeu Estate on which there are
1,300 ha rubber. At an appropriate time following its rehabilitation, it is
GOI's intention that PNP I supply necessary services, such as processing and
marketing facilities, to the smallholder project.
2.        New Settlement - Tebenan, South Sumatera.  A gross area of about
13,500 ha belonging mainly to three communities (Marga) Rimbaasam, Telok
Kijing and Ipil /2, located about 75 km from Palembang, the capital city of
/1 Imperata cylindrica, a coarse grass which constitutes a serious weed
problem in cultivated areas.
/2 A marga is a traditional community grouping of the indigenous population.



ANNEX I
Section Al
Page 2
the province of South Sumatera (Map 2). The road to Palembang is surfaced
and able to cope with present traffic. Unsurfaced roads in poor condition
lead into the subproject areas. Basic social services exist in the surrounding
areas. The subproject area is covered by secondary jungle and lalang grass.
Soil and land capability studies were carried out by consultants over 20,000 ha.
Soils are derived from shales and are of moderate fertility, very suitable for
tree crop agriculture. Topography is gently undulating, facilitating land dev-
elopment. A net plantable area of 11,250 ha has been achieved by reducing
the gross area by about 15% to allow for inferior land, water courses,
villages and roads. Mean annual rainfall varies from 2,500-3,000 mm. The
driest part of the year is from June to September but mean monthly rainfall
seldom falls below 100 mm during the driest month. Some 10,000 families or
59,000 people (6 members per family) live in an area within 5-10 km from the
subproject area (which is itself uninhabited). These include about 8,000
rubber smallholder families with between 1.4 and 2.5 ha of rubber in an
average total farm area of 3 ha. About 40% of farmers have total holdings of
less than 2 ha and 54% have rubber areas less than 2 ha. The non-rubber farm
areas are cultivated with rice and other annual food crops. Average gross
farm annual income is estimated at US$500. Data are incomplete, but it is
estimated that 40% of smallholders have a gross farm income of only US$350.
This would be a target group for recruitment and resettlement. Another would
be impoverished smalllholders from further afield within the province. The
provincial authorities propose that about 10% of the settlers would be
transmigrants from Java. An ample supply of settler recruits is foreseen by
Government. The subproject area is adjacent to the PNP X Tebenan Estate
which is planted with 1,500 ha of high yielding rubber. GOI intends that PNP
X would be the nucleus estate responsible for development of the smallholder
rubber during the first 3 years of the immature period and for extension,
marketing and processing services after this time.
3.        Completion of the PNP X Phase I program and Development of Oil.
in South Sumatera. The proposed project area for new oil palm development,
Betung Oil Palm Estate, lies adjacent to the proosed Tebenan Settlement area
and to Tebenan Estate and enjoys similar environmental conditions (para. 2).
The vegetation is secondary jungle and lalang. The area suitable for oil
palm development amounts to 10,000 ha. About 2,300 ha of this land is already
owned by PNP X. Under the project PNP X would acquire 7,300 ha of new land
and 1,000 ha of Oud Wassenar Estate (an adjacent Government owned abandoned
estate). The subproject area is linked to Palembang by an asphalt road with
a maximum weight limit of two tons. The consultants who prepared this
project identified the need for improvement in this road in view of the
proposed development in the area. There are no facilities for bulk shipment
of palm oil at the port of Palembang. There is insufficient water in the
area to supply the proposed palm oil mill. The nearest major source of water
is the Musi River some 16 km from the proposed mill site.
4.        Rehabilitation of PTP XI.  The subproject area is located in the
province of West Java where PTP XI operates 15 small estates with a planted
area of 23,198 ha consisting of 19,806 ha rubber, 1,304 ha gutta percha, and



ANNEX I
Section Al
Page 3
the remainder in Albizzia, tea, and coconuts. Some 18,000 ha of additional
land consists of jungle, abandoned land and squatter occupied areas. The
terrain varies from undulating to hilly, the elevation from near sea level to
1,000 m (most of the planted area is in the 500-600 m zone) and the annual
estate rainfall from 1,700 mm in dry years to 6,000 mm in wet years. There is
consequently a considerable range of environmental conditions and a signifi-
cant proportion of the rubber area is growing in suboptimum conditions
in terms of high elevation and rainfall. Due to past political, managerial
and financial difficulties, the rubber areas are relatively low yielding and
in unsatisfactory condition and estate facilities are very run down. The
project area is densely populated and there is a substantial level of unemploy-
ment. Roads between estates and the main centres, Jakarta, Bogor and Sukabumi
are satisfactory. Estates and their subsidiary divisions are very scattered,
however.



ANNEX I
Section A2
Page 1
Settlement Planning, Layout, Infrastructure and Roads
Introduction
The Alue Iemerah and Tebenan areas for settlement have been described
in Annex I, Section Al. During project preparation comprehensive resource
apparaisal was carried out in terms of soil, topographical, land use and land
suitability surveys. Data are included in the consultants' reports (Annex 2,
Section 7).
Basic Settlement Plan
The settlement areas would be divided into blocks of 3,000 ha gross.
These blocks would again be subdivided into net areas for rubber (1,000 ha) and
food crops (2,500 ha). The remaining area would be occupied by inferior land,
water courses, villages and roads. Land would be allocated between rubber and
food crops so that rubber areas were contiguous and food crops restricted to the
flatter lands with a higher level of fertility (Figure 2). Villages would be
located in the food crop areas in a nucleated layout so that the distance to
rubber areas from the settler's house was no more than 3 km.
Villages
One central (250 families) and two satellite (125 families each)
villages would be located in each block. The 500 families would eventually each
have five ha of land - 2,500 ha - within the block. In Alue Iemerah there would
be seven central and 14 satellite villages; in Tebenan the respective figures are
four and ten. Details of village buildings and settler houses are in Annex I,
Section BI, Tables 6.1 and 6.3. The number and size of buildings and houses
are in accordance with Government regulations.
Health
Health provisions would consist of water supply, latrines and basic
health services including malaria control campaigns. Details are provided in
Annex I, Section BI, Tables 7.1 and 7.3. Again these provisions are in line
with Government regulations. In addition to the above, a physical contingency
has been included for stand-by water arrangements in the event additional
water supplies are required.
Roads
Under the project, the settlement areas would be linked with the
provincial road network by (i) construction of all weather main access roads.
Within the settlement areas would be established (ii) a system of all weather
village roads between village centers and linking these with the main access
roads. Systems of (iii) primary and secondary estate type roads would serve
the rubber areas and (iv) farm tracks would facilitate access to food crop
areas. The specifications, length and costs of these roads are in Annex 1,
Section Cl, Tables 4.1 and 4.2. In Alue Iemerah the base for the main access



ANNEX I
Section A2
Page 2
road would be from the existing road to Julo Rayeu Estate. In Tebenan
a completely new access road would be constructed.
Farm Development
Settler families would arrive on the project in the April-June period
after completion of the rice harvest in their particular area ready to partici-
pate in clearing of future rubber land. In this first year they would also
establish their garden/orchard area (0.2 ha) around their house lot. In the
second to fourth years it is assumed that settlers would clear and plant each
year another 0.2 ha with food crops. During this period one worker per family
would work full time as a trainee laborer in the rubber area being developed by
the nucleus estate contractor. In year 5 the family would be able to clear and
plant 0.3 ha with food crops and in year 7 and onwards the area planted with
food crops annually would increase to 0.4 ha. (Annex I, Section B1, Table 1.)
The labor analysis in Annex I, Section BI, Table 1.2 shows that these are
the maximum areas of food crops likely to be handled by settler families within
this initial 7-8 year period. After this time the farmer should be able to
increase his tree crop area to three ha. Food crop assumptions are in Annex I,
Section A4.



ANNEX I
Section A3
Page 1
Rubber Development
The terms of reference for the nucleus estate and a draft specimen
contract between the Nucleus Estate and the DGE are outlined below. The
form of contract has been used in the Transmigration and Rural Development
Project.
1.  Terms of Reference for Nucleus Estate for Rubber
Establishment, Development and Provision of Services
Scope of Activities
For the period up to three years after planting
(a) In relation to the programs in para. 3.05 of the Main Report Table I
(PTP V) and Table 2 (PNP X) the nucleus estates would operate rubber
nurseries; clear the future rubber land; construct settler houses
and install water supplies; plant and maintain rubber; and construct
rubber area roads; all in accordance with specifications laid down
by the DGE.
(b) The nucleus estates would procure and apply rubber area inputs.
Goods financed by the World Bank would be procured using Bank
guidelines. Tender specifications would be drawn up by the DGE.
(c) The nucleus estates would train settlers in rubber planting and
maintenance in accordance with a syllabus drawn up in conjunction
with the DGE.
(d) In year 1 of each rubber area the nucleus estates would provide food
crop inputs to new settlers according to DGE instructions for the
period from three years after planting to production.
For the period from three years after planting up to production
(e) The nucleus estates would maintain rubber roads, procure and apply
rubber area inputs.
(f) The nucleus estates would provide specific training in rubber
tapping on the adjacent nucleus estate and extension services as
required by the DGE and the Provincial Government.
During the production period
(g) The nucleus estates would provide extension, processing and market-
ing services as required by the DGE and the Provincial Government.
(h) Management. During the first three years after field planting, the
nucleus estates would operate settlers in the rubber areas in
accordance with usual estate procedures. Where settlers were
unavailable, the nucleus estates would be authorized to recruit
casual labor, to be accommodated in temporary housing if necessary.



ANNEX I
Section A3
Page 2
(i)  The nucleus estates would employ staff as detailed in Annex I,
Section Bl, Table 8.1 (PTPV) and Table 8.2 (PNP X).
(j)  The nucleus estates would keep complete project accounts of all
expenditures.
(k)  Inspection.  The nucleus estates would facilitate inspection of all
contract works by the officials and advisors of the DGE. These
inspection services would:
(i)  scrutinize annual budgets for rubber development;
(ii) advise on land development with rubber, particularly on land
suitability and planting techniques and approve each year's
program;
(iii) evaluate field growth according to a grading system agreed
between the DGE and the nucleus estates and in accordance with
the system successfully used under Credit 319-IND.
(iv) provide regular reports to the Director General of Estates
on all aspects of the nucleus estates performance in carrying
out the contract.
2.        Draft Specimen Contract Between DGE and Nucleus Estate
This ........        day, dated         ..... 1977, we, the undersigned:
I.                        in this respect acts for and on behalf of Director
General of Estates hereinafter called the First
Party.
II.                       in this respect acts for and on behalf of Government
Estate Enterprise, hereinafter called the Second
Party.
based on Joint Decrees of Director General of Estates and .................
................................  .......................
concerning the development of estate undertakings in relation to smallholder
development activities in the settlement area,
- whereas the First Party want to develop the smallholder rubber estate for
project farmers to be settled in Southern Sumatera Region, i.e.:
(1) In the Tebenan area, located 75 km from Palembang, Province of South
Sumatera, an area c.a. 4,500 ha on a total area of 11,250 ha, as shown
on the attached situation map;



ANNEX I
Section A3
Page 3
- Whereas the development of the above mentioned rubber estate needs
particular cultural and technical skill, so that the First Party considers
to entrust the Second Party as a Government Enterprise with the perform-
ance, which is accustomed and skilled in the field of the Rubber commodity
plantations, pursuant to provisions as stated in the undermentioned
articles, for which the Second Party has stated its willingness.
- Whereas an official agreement should be issued as a basic for delegation
of duties and willingness to carry out such duties.
- Stated herewith having agreed with the conformity regarding to Smallholder
Rubber Estate Development in the settlement area, pursuant to articles as
mentioned hereunder:
Article 1
Assignment
The First Party assigns the work as stated above to the Second Party and
the Second Party accepts the assignment with terms as stipulated in the
following articles.
Article 2
Scope of work
(1) The work to be carried out by the Second Party on behalf of the First
Party includes the following principal works which can be divided into
3 phases:
1. Phase I, between year 0 up to three years after planting, namely
up to the time of delivering of the rubber blocks to the respec-
tive settlers, which include the following works:
1.1. Identification of part of the settlement area where the
local conditions are favorable for developing rubber planta-
tions.
1.2. Land clearing and preparation of it into blocks suitable
for rubber planting.
1.3. Land cultivation.
1.4. Supply of GT 1 budded stumps or other improved clone and
plant in polybags.
1.5. Planting of (3 whorl) budded stumps in the blocks already
prepared.
1.6. Maintenance of rubber plantations (manuring, weeding,
replacing the dead and the dwarf plants, pest and disease
control etc.)



ANNEX I
Section A3
Page 4
1.7.  Education and training for settlers to be paid at similar
wage as estate laborers in this rubber business, i.e.
Rp 422/day.
1.8.  Training project staffs in managing rubber estates.
1.9.  Construction of primary estate, secondary estate, and farm
roads.
1.10. Construction of settler housing to be arranged prior to
settler arrival in conformity with present GOI standards
for settler housing, i.e. about Rp 207,500 per family
unit.
1.11. Construction of all necessary estate garages, workshops,
and other estate related buildings necessary for development
of block planted rubber.
2. Phase II, from three years after planting up to the time when
rubber trees are ready to be tapped for the first time, which
covers the following works:
2.1.  Supervision of settlers' rubber blocks and procurement of
the necessary production means such as fertilizer.
2.2.  Training of settlers in rubber tapping practices.
3.  Phase III, the time between rubber trees coming into production
up to the end of this agreement, which covers the following
works:
3.1.  Preparing frame work and organizational set up for post
harvest treatment such as tapping, collection and coagulation
of latex, transport, processing, grading and marketing of
processed rubber.
3.2.  Providing necessary equipment which supports those above
mentioned post harvest activities.
3.3.  Collecting smallholder latex for debt service on behalf of
BRI as handling bank for the GOI at agreed level to be
decided in the sixth year of the project, equal to about
25% of smallholder production during year 7 to 21.
3.4.  Agreeing to assign a value to smallholder latex collected
for debt service, to be agreed by both undersigned parties
in year 6, estimated now at about 70% of the fob price of
rubber based on the direct cost of processing, collection,
and marketing equalling 30% of the FOB price incurred by
the nucleus estate processor, or as agreed from time to
time by the Provincial Coordinating Committee in coopera-
tion with the DGE.



ANNEX I
Section A3
Page 5
Article 3
Period of Agreement
(1)  The term of agreement under this contract shall be 27 years, commencing
from 1977/78 up to and including 2004, being the time when debt-service
by project settlers would be complete.
(2) The mentioned period can be extended with term of mutual agreement.
Article 4
Organization and Management
(1) For the project site at Tebenan the Second Party will appoint a project
officer for the rubber unit, with necessary staff.
(2) The project officer is responsible to the Second Party, but day to
day he has to perform a close contact and coordination with the Project
Manager appointed by the First Party.
(3) In the nucleus estates Headquarters a particular section shall be
formed for implementation of all administrative work concerning
this rubber project.
(4) The First Party will appoint a counterpart team with the duty to manage
and supervise all kinds of communication with the Second Party, with an
authority to propose decisions upon every problem that may arise.
(5) The nucleus estate is responsible for the best possible preparation of
the rubber plantation, and would be paid for its head office overheads
and field overheads at the rate of 15% per annum as calculated on the
direct expenditures made for rubber development, machinery and equipment,
or as agreed by the DGE based on satisfactory performance.
Article 5
Finance
(1) Finance required for implementing the work as mentioned in Article 2,
Phase I would be passed on to the Second Party from the Bank Rakyat
Indonesia by a Subfinancing Agreement.
(2) The period of this Subfinancing Agreement would be through the end of
Phase I for each area of rubber planted by the Second Party.



ANNEX I
Section A3
Page 6
(3) The GOI would bear the risk on loan funds during the period of development
described in Article 2, Phase 1.
(4) The Second Party would agree, as in Article 2, Phase II, to procure
necessary inputs for rubber development in Phase II, the finance for
which would be made available directly to farmers from the BRI.
Article 6
Budget
(1) The Second Party agrees to provide an indicative budget for the work
as mentioned in Article 2 at least 6 months before the implementation of
a certain budget year, to include both physical plans and expected
financial requirements from the BRI loan account.
(2) Budget plans which can be formulated by the Second Party cover:
(i) Direct costs for implementing the work as mentioned in Article 2;
(ii)  Indirect costs as mentioned in Article 4 (5).
Article 7
Financial Responsibility
(1) The Second Party agrees to undertake an accounting system as separate
from the Second Party's own financial reports, to include itemized
expenditure accounts of all work carried out in Article 2.
(2) The Second Party agrees to provide quarterly financial statements to the
DGE with copies to the BRI, Ministryof Finance and the World Bank.
(3) The First Party reserves the right to require any additional periodic
accounting statements.
Article 8
Progress Reports
(1) An annual Progress Report regarding the Project development would be
submitted by the Second Party to the First Party.
(2) The First Party reserves the right to inspect the Project at any time
to assess the Project development.



ANNEX I
Section A3
Page 7
Article 9
Settlement of Disputes, Arbitration
(1) Terms not yet enclosed in this Agreement, shall be settled by negotiation.
Correspondence and/or minutes of the meeting concerned form an additional
and integral part of this Agreement.
(2) Any disputes or differences arising out of this Agreement, shall be
settled by negotiation. If these differences cannot be amicably
settled between the parties they shall be finally settled by arbitration.
(3) Each Party reserves the right to appoint an Arbiter and the two Arbitors
to choose a third member as their Chairman.
(4) If in connection therewith no agreement with respect to the appointment
of Arbiter can be reached, the formation of Arbiters shall be left
to the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Manpower, Transmi-
gration and Cooperation.
(5) The Arbiters' decision is final for both parties without appeal.
Article 10
For this Agreement both Parties choose as their irrevocable legal domicile
the Centre Court of Justice in Jakarta.
Signed in Jakarta on the day and date abovementioned.
FIRST PARTY                                         SECOND PARTY
Approved by,
DIRECTOR GEN. OF ESTATES                         MANAGING DIRECTOR, PNP



ANNEX I
Section A4
Page 1
Guidelines for Selection and Recruitment of Settlers
The project is designed to provide for landless participants or
those who have very small, uneconomic, lands which they are prepared to
surrender in exchange for land holdings within the project. (Those practic-
ing shifting cultivation would particularly be encouraged to abandon this
practice and settle in the project). Priority would be given firstly to
suitably qualified rural families within the project area; secondly to resi-
dents of the Province in which the project is located and, when these demands
have been met, to landless applicants fromother areas recruited through
the Directorate General of Transmigration in coordination with the DGE or
otherwise as appropriate in the special circumstances of each project.
Generally all participants would be required to reside in the
new villages to be established by the project. There is no intention to
provide additional lands to established farmers resident close to the project
area who would continue to farm existing holdings. Such farmers are pro-
vided for by other projects such as the conventional ARP programs. The
only exception would be that applicants prepared to settle in the new villages
and surrender existing dry land holdings could be permitted to retain small
areas of sawah land provided that family labor was sufficient to develop
project holdings while cultivating the existing rice land. Each such case
would be considered individually by the Project Manager in consultation
with the village authority concerned.
Detailed selection criteria would be developed by each Project
Manager according to the availability of potential participants and special
circumstances in each area, after discussion with the Provincial Coordinating
Committee, the Project Manager devising a points system applied to the
following framework.
Settler Qualifications
1. Location
Priority 1.  Those cultivating land within the area to
be developed by the project.
Priority 2.  Those obtaining income from land to be
developed by the project. For example,
those using grazing land, cutting grass or
collecting wood or jungle produce on a
regular basis.
Priority 3.  Those residents:
(i) within the project area;
(ii) within the Kacamatan of the project;
(iii) within the Kabupaten of the project;
(iv) within the province of the project; and
(v) others.



ANNk,A -
Section A4
Page 2
2. Land Ownership
Priority 1. Those entirely without cultivated land.
Priority 2. Those without entitled land (i.e., without
Hak M4ilik, Hak Pakai or customary rights
to Marga land) but practicing shifting cultiva-
tion and prepared to cease this practice.
Priority 3. Those with not more than 1.0 ha bearing old
rubber trees (and without other land) prepared
to surrender this land to the Marga for
reallocation.
Priority 4. Those with not more than 1.0 ha Marga land
under crop and prepared to surrender the land
(including any sawah).
Priority 5. Those with more than 1.0 ha but not more than
2.0 ha cultivated land and prepared to surrender
this land.
Residence and Family Status
3.        Applicants would be married men, aged 20 to 40 years at entry to the
project./1 Given this qualification account would be taken of family labor
potential, consideration being given to unmarried sons 15-20 years of age,
normally resident with and dependent upon the head of the family.
Income Sources and Level
4.        Preference would be given to the lowest income groups, without regular
paid employment. An upper limit would then be fixed, the amount being of the
order of Rp 120,000 per year but determined by local conditions in each project.
Experience
5.        In the circumstances that settlers would receive minimum guidance in
development of their foodcrop areas, a rural background and some experience to
farm operations would be essential. Preference would be given to those able to
demonstrate (on present land holdings or employment) a basic capacity to culti-
vate short-term crops satisfactorily.
Health
6.        Selected settlers and their wives would be physically fit for field
work. All provisionally accepted settlers would be healthy, free from contagious
diseases and able to maintain the necessary income from allocated food lots while
providing 25 man-days paid labor on the nucleus estate each month.
/1 The age limit for existing farmers within the project area would be
considered by the Project Manager on a case by case basis.



ANNEX I
Section A4
Page 3
Understanding of Obligations
7.        Applicants should clearly understand their obligations as settlers,
particularly that they would:
(i) move to a project village;
(ii) accept paid labor on the Nucleus Estate for one adult per
family; and
(iii) use other family labor in development of allocated house
and food cropping areas.
8.        Intended participants should understand the benefits and other condi-
tions of the project. Special efforts would be made to avoid misunderstand-
ings by explanation of the project to community leaders in the areas from
which settlers are to be drawn and then to potential settlers. Obligations
and benefits would be clearly set out in application forms.
Recruitment
9.        In all recruitment of settlers, reliance would be placed upon village
authorities for confirmation of applicant's qualifications. Equally, the
applicant's candidature would be acceptable to the authorities, particularly
where surrender of land is involved. Close collaboration between the Project
Manager and the local authorities would be essential and following discussion
with the Provincial Coordinating Committee the detailed points system prepared
by the Project Manager would be cleared with the local authority which would be
represented on the Provincial Coordinating Committee.
10.       Given this consultation and participation, recruitment would be at
the discretion of the Project Manager according to procedures and a timetable
prepared by him within DGE guidelines.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 1
FIELD TECHNOLOGY - RUBBER
PTP XI - Present Situation
1.   Area Statement
2.   Mature Rubber
2.1 Physical conditions
2.2 Weeding
2.3 Manuring
2.4 Disease
2.5 Tapping
2.6 Stimulation
2.7 Production and yields
3.   Mature untapped area
3.1 Physical conditions
3.2 Weeding
3.3 Manuring
4.   Immature area
4.1 Physical conditions
4.2 Weeding
4.3 Manuring
4.4 Planting material
4.5 Density



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 2
1.        Area Statement.  PTP XI comprises 15 estates covering a total of
46,920 ha of which 24,037 ha are planted with the following crop distribution.
Rubber mature                 15,942 ha
Rubber mature untapped         3,314 ha - abandoned untapped - 1,279 ha
- untapped over 6 years - 2,841 ha
Rubber immature                1,221 ha
Coconuts mature                   54 ha
Coconuts immature                325 ha
Tea                              416 ha
Cloves                           289 ha
Albizzia                       1,172 ha
Gutta Percha                   1,304 ha
Total Planted Area        24,037 ha
The remaining areas are composed of 13,364 ha of vacant land and abandoned
planted areas (rubber and tea), 6,260 ha which are occupied by squatters and
3,259 ha of other land including centers, villages, roads, nurseries, budwood
gardens, etc.
2. Mature Rubber Area - 15,942 ha
2.1 Physical Conditions
In general, the present field conditions range from poor to very poor.
2.2 Weeding
A lack of maintenance, mainly due to a shortage of funds, was found
on all estates visited. About 80 % of the fields were covered with lalang,
Mikania and Eupatorium. Lalang eradication was started in 1974, but in some
cases the results were very poor and in fact the areas selected for treatment
were not well chosen.
2.3 Manuring
Neither manuring soil, nor foliar analysis were done in 1975 due to
shortage of funds. During the last three years manuring was carried out
using a compound fertilizer (15-15-15) at a rate of 200 gram per tree. Nitro-
gen deficiencies were noted in most fields.
2.4 Diseases
A very heavy attack of Oidium and Gloesporiun was noted particularly
in clone GTl covering about 2,000 ha. Tapping intensity was reduced and in
some cases completely stopped for several months resulting in a loss of
production of nearly 1,500 tons. Mouldy rot was generally under control.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 3
2.5 Tapping
Tapping standards were a major problem and generally the tapping
quality ranged from average to poor. This was mainly the result of inadequate
long term policy, control and discipline. Mature rubber was classified into two
categories: (a) planting year 1959 and older; (b) planting year 1960 and
younger. In the first category, the two high panels had already been tapped.
In 1974, the upward tapping system used in the North Sumtera PNP's was introduced
to PTP XI by the RRC Tanjung Morawa, North Sumatera. The application of this
upward tapping system with insufficient knowledge and control resulted in very
high bark consumption. On one estate, a bark consumption of 170 cm in one year
was noted, representing more than four times the normal consumption. The
tapping cuts reached a height of over 3 m. The low panels were generally in bad
condition with very poor renewed bark. Bark thickness averaged only 6-7 mm
resulting in many wounds to the tapping panel. In all these fields a total lack
of tapping discipline was noted. Panels were opened at different high levels.
In some cases additional cuts were tapped creating much island bark. In the
second category, the 1960 year of planting and younger areas both high panels
were still virgin. Here again a lack of discipline in tapping was noted. In
many cases a change over of panel was made without any instruction, the decision
being made by the tapper himself when the present cut became too low or when
tapping became too difficult on the very thin renewed bark panel. By making
such change over panels, many bark islands are created resulting in very low
yields. The tapping systems generally used are S/2-D2 and S/2-D3 or D4. As
far as equipment is concerned, it has been noted that because of danger of
theft, all aluminum cups are carried back after tapping. Consequently, the
tappers have to carry 500 cups representing an additional weight of 20 kg
twice a day resulting in loss of yield, time and waste of energy.
2.6 Stimulation
About 300 ha were under stimulation.  Ethrel at 2.5% a.i. concen-
tration was used and applications were made by scraping with the upward tapping
system and on the panel above the cut, in the downward tapping system.
2.7 Production and Yields
Yields expressed in kg/ha, kg/tapper/day and gm/tree/tapping day are
very low compared with North Sumatera PNP's. These results are due to the very
poor condition of trees, lack of upkeep and manuring and insufficient control in
tapping.
3. Mature Untapped Areas
3.1 Physical Condition
This area concerns the trees over five years which are still
untapped. Tree age ranged from six to fifteen years. Most of these areas



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 4
were in very poor condition mainly due to a lack of upkeep during recent
years. Growth was backward. Due to lack of funds, these areas were aban-
doned during the last three years.
3.2 Weeding
About 70% of the fields were covered with lalang or Mikania and
Eupatorium. In some estates a rehabilitation program was started in 1974,
covering a total area of 1,279 ha. Lalang eradication commenced but due to
the absence of cover crop, fields were invaded by Mikania and Eupatorium.
3.3 Manuring
No manuring was carried out in these areas during recent years,
except in 1,279 ha where rehabilitation was started in 1974.
4. Immature Areas - 1,221 ha
4.1 Physical Conditions
The physical condition of the immature areas ranged from average
to good. The latest plantings were in better condition but have not yet
reached a high standard. Where growth was backward it was in most cases mainly
due to poor planting material, lack of cover crop and fertilizer.
4.2 Weeding
Sporadic lalang was still in existence and Mikania and Eupatorium
covered 40% of the area. Legume cover crops were very poor.
4.3 Manuring
Manuring programs were carried out during the last three years
using very small doses of compound NPK fertilizers (15-15-15).
4.4 Planting Materials - Clones
In recent years, high stumps were used for planting. The main
clone was GT.I. High stumps were in general in poor condition and derived
from old nurseries. In 1975 short budded stumps were used, but here again
the quality of these stumps was poor.
4.5 Density
The present density used by PTP XI is 550 trees/ha with a spacing
of 7 x 2.6 m. Due to the very poor quality of planting material, the actual
density range was from 450 to 500 trees/ha.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 5
PTP XI - Rehabilitation
1.   Area Statement
2.   Mature Areas
2.1 Tapping
2.2 Opening
2.3 Tapping System
2.4 Task Size
2.5 Tree Equipment
2.6 Stimulation
2.7 Field Maintenance
3.   Mature Untapped Areas
4.   Immature Areas
5.   New Establishment
5.1 Nursery
(a) Choice of Emplacement
(b) Soil Preparation
(c) Density
(d) Clones
5.2 Field Establishment
5.3 Field Maintenance year 1 to 5
5.4 Control and Inspection



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 6
1. Area Statement
The Appraisal Mission revised the project prepared by CDC consul-
tants. Having taken into consideration the distribution of the estates, land
suitability, elevation and rainfall, it was decided to retain only eight
estates in rubber in the long term and to start conversion into coconuts on
the other estates. The program up to 1981 would cover 3,713 ha of rubber
replanting and 4,233 ha of conversion into coconuts. The total program up to
2000 would cover replanting of 11,089 ha in rubber and 12,179 ha of coconut
planting. Tables 1.1(a) and 1.1(b), Annex I, Section B3, provide details of the
program. In addition to this planting program, there would be rehabilitation of
9,637 ha of mature rubber, 2,060 ha of untapped mature rubber and 1,039 ha
of immature area. Rehabilitation would be carried out over a three year
period for the mature areas and one year for the immature. Tables 1.3 and
1.3(c) Annex I, Section B3, give details of rubber and coconut area age composi-
tion from year 1976 up to 2000. Starting with 19,398 ha of rubber in 1975,
the final rubber area would be reduced to 14,218 ha distributed over eight
estates in the year 2000. At the same time, the coconut area would be extended
from the present 379 ha to 12,412 ha in year 2000. Estates to be maintained in
rubber are: Pasir Waringin, Bojong Datar, Sanghyang Damar, Menteng, Hambalang,
Pasir Maung, Sukamaju, Cibungur. The conversion program into coconut should be
carried out on: Cisalak Baru, Bantar Jaya, Cimulang, Pondek Gedeh, Cikasungka,
Cisalak, Cipetir, Pasir Badak, Ganessa, Ciemas. There is no conversion nor
rehabilitation program planned for the remaining estates. Due to their situation,
unsatisfactory topography, or elevation, certain estates or part of these
estates would be released to Government. Serpong Estate being close to Jakarta,
and very fragmented, could be partly sold for new industrial development and
real estate.
2. Mature Areas
The rehabilitation program would be carried out on 9,637 ha involving
the 1959 and younger areas. The program would start in 1977 on 4,000 ha
followed by 5,637 ha in 1978. Rehabilitation includes complete lalang, mikania
and eupatorium eradication and an additional manuring program based on foliar
analysis. Cost of rehabilitation is given in Table 5.3(c), Annex I, Section
B3. The 9,637 ha concern the fields where exploitation of high panels has
not yet started and subsequently where it would be possible to apply a long
term tapping system. On the remaining 6,305 ha minimum upkeep only should be
carried out. Monthly or bimonthly slashing should be sufficient in order to
ensure access for tapping. No manuring program is provided as there were no
bark reserves in these fields.
2.1 Tapping
Complete reorganization should start as soon as possible. It is
most important to improve tapping discipline in terms of:
(a) the girth of tappable trees;
(b) the height of opening;



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 7
(c) the correct change over panel;
(d) the most suitable tapping system; and
(e) correct stimulation technique.
2.2 Tree Opening
(a) Opening would be carried out on trees having a girth of 50 cm
at 1 m above ground. A field is tappable when at least 50% of
the trees have reached this girth. In the present heterogeneous
fields, tapping could be started with a lower percentage of
tappable trees (35 to 40%).
(b) Opening would be at a height of 130 cm above ground and the
angle of slope would be 350.
(c) Change over panel. In the present situation the change over
of panel depends on the bark situation and the yield. In most
cases, bark islands are created resulting in a waste of bark
and very poor yields. Training should be given to tappers to
prevent such opening. There should be stronger discipline
concerning tapping standards with much more systematic control
and evaluation of performance.
2.3 Tapping Systems
The present S/2 D2 system is unsatisfactory for exploitation. More
modern systems should be applied. A lower tapping frequency is recommended.
Conservation of bark and labor should be the objective of such systems. By
using stimulants it is possible to decrease tapping frequency.
A general guideline for tapping systems using stimulants follows.
In all present areas tapped S/2 D2 without stimulation, it would be possible
to change the frequency to D3 and to use stimulant as Ethrel 2% or 2-1/2%.
With this frequency the PTP should be able to reduce bark consumption. In
1958 and older areas where no rehabilitation program has been planned, the
present tapping system could be improved by adopting a S/2 tapping system
with D4 frequency and a monthly application of Ethrel at 2-1/2%. Upward
tapping should not be used for too long a period and never for more than one
year on the same panel. When trees have been tapped for two consecutive years
or more with an upward tapping system, it is necessary to return to low
panels. A periodic alternate change over panel could be applied after one
year of rest on the high panels. On older trees, where the present cut on
high panel is situated at a height of more than 3 m, it should be possible,
if the low panels are untappable, to apply S/2 D4 or S/4 D3 systems. In
both cases, guide strings should be used in order to facilitate the flow of
latex into the cup. In all cases, whether trees are young or old, it is
absolutely necessary to stop the application of the present super high
tapping system, "SHT" in a downward direction.  By using the SHT system bark
islands are created and in most cases, panels become dry after one or two
years of exploitation.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 8
Years of         Tapping Systems
Tapping             and Panels                   Stimulation Frequency
1- 2      S/2   D4 Panel A            Groove stim.   ET 2%        - 1 x 20 days
3-11      S/2   D3 Alternate          Groove stim.   ET 2-1/2% - 1 x 15 days
A and B
12-26      Alternate S/2   D3           Groove stim.   ET 2-1/2% - 1 x 15 days
C and D
S/2   D4  I - II            Scraping stim. ET 2-1/2% - 1 x 15 days
27-30      Alternate S/2   D2 -        Groove stim.   ET 2-1/2% - 1 x 15 days
E and F
S/2   D3  I - II            Scraping stim. ET 2-1/2% - 1 x 30 days
2.4 Task Size
A guideline for the task size to be given according to the corres-
ponding tapping system is given below:
Tapping System                       Task Size
S/2   on virgin bark               500 to 550 trees
S/2l   on renewed bark             450 to 500 trees
S/2_ 1st to 4th year               380 to 420 trees
5th to 8th year              350 to 380 trees
S/4   more than 3 m height         450 trees
Alternate system                   500 trees for    periods
Alternate system                   400 trees for - periods
2 S/2_ and _ on old trees          250 to 300 trees
2.5 Tree Equipment
Steps should be taken to replace aluminum cups with earthen cups.
Earthen cups could be left in place allowing late afternoon collection.
Without cup transportation, tapping could start earlier and subsequently
increase production. On young trees (virgin low panels A and B) cup hangers
with string should be used instead of a nail in the bark as presently prac-
ticed.
2.6 Stimulation
Product: Ethrel should be used at 2-1/2%. Dilution of Ethrel
should be made in palm oil mixed with Otina C grease for scraping application,
and in the case of panel and groove application, Ethrel should be mixed with
water. In both cases Ethrel should not be kept more than one month after
dilution.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 9
Application: In all downward tapping systems groove stimulation
should be applied. It has been already proved that groove stimulation gives
better results when compared to scraping and panel application. In general,
groove stimulation is done two weekly. Although this system gives better
results, it, however, requires better control and very good organization. The
quantity of product to be applied should not exceed 0.3 gm/tree/application
on the young trees (panels A and B) and 1.5 gm for old trees (panels C and
D). In upward tapping stimulants are applied after scraping. The width of
scraping should not be more than the normal bark consumption for one month,
i.e. 15 mm. The normal quality of product used for stimulation by scraping
is 0.9 gm/tree/application.
2.7 Field Maintenance - Manuring
Tables 5.3(a) and 5.3(c), Annex I, Section B3, give details of labor
and material requirements for field maintenance for: normal mature areas;
mature areas with and without rehabilitation; and untapped mature areas with
rehabilitation. Except in the nonrehabilitated areas, chemical weeding should
be carried out. It would be possible to combine path weeding with premanuring
weeding. Fertilizers should be broadcast in the inter-row at 1.5 m from the
trees. Fertilizer requirements are provided in Table 6.1, Section B3. A high
number of very small untappable trees is still present. Thintling out should be
done before broadcasting fertilizer.
3. Mature Untapped Areas - 3,314 ha
A rehabilitation program has been planned for approximately 2,060 ha,
i.e. 62% of these areas. Rehabilitation includes complete eradication of
lalang and other noxious weeds and an additional manuring program in order to
bring these areas into production in the next three years. A field card was
prepared during the mission for execution of more accurate surveys of these
fields. Data such as girth, type of cover, tree density, level of supplying
of vacancies necessary should be recorded and assessed before starting
rehabilitation. The remaining 1,254 ha should be replanted or converted into
coconuts.
4. Immature Areas - 1,221 ha
A rehabilitation program should be carried out on 1,039 ha of these
areas. Lalang and other noxious weeds such as Mikania and Eupatorium are wide-
spread and must be eradicated by chemical weeding. Furthermore, PTP XI should
introduce Pueraria triloba which has the advantage of rapid spread. PTP XI
should establish a Pueraria tribola nursery on each estate where rubber is to
be the main crop. At the same time a new weeding policy should be applied.
The present strip weeding, in addition to high cost, has the disadvantage of
disturbing feeding root systems and soil. In fields where legume covers have
been established, it is recommended that weeding of circles stop after the
second year and that mulching is done to provide organic matter. Mulching
would also assist in white root disease detection.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 10
5. New Establishment
5.1 Nursery
PTP XI must pay more attention to nursery establishment. The
nursery should be established:
(a) on a flat area;
(b) near a water supply;
(c) with easy road access; and
(d) in a central position.
Ploughing and harrowing should be to a depth of 60 cm. All roots and weeds
should be removed. To facilitate budding, a triangular planting system
should be used with a spacing of 50 x 50 cm. Omitting rows for control, the
total points per ha of nursery would be about 45,000. Due to the heavy rain-
fall in West Java the clones to be utilized should be as follows:
Percent of
Clones        Replantings
RRIM 600          40
GT 1              15
PB 5/51           15
AV 2037           10
PR 107            10
PR 255             5
PB 28/59           5
5.2 Field Establishment
Poisoning of remaining trees should be done one month before
felling, using Sodium Arsenite. Lalang eradication should be done with
chemicals such as Dalapon at a rate of 30 kg/ha in three to four sprayings.
500 trees/ha should be planted with a spacing of 7 x 2.85 m to obtain 400
trees/ha in Year 6 at opening. Planting material should be budded stumps of
16 months old. At the time of planting, 10%, i.e. 50 trees, should be
planted in polybags (60 cm x 30 cm) in order to provide for supplying.
Supplying should be done only in Year 1 using polybags in order to obtain
homogeneous plantings. No supplying should be done in the following year.
200 gm of rock phosphate should be added in the hole at planting. Legume
cover crop should be established at the time of planting and just after
lalang eradication. Pueraria javanica, Centrosema and Calopogonium are
generally used as covers. In addition, Pueraria triloba should be intro-
duced as soon as possible. Fertilizer should be applied to legumes at the
time of sowing.
5.3 Field Maintenance - Year 1 to 5
Table 6.1(a), Annex I, Section B3, gives details of fertilizer
schedules from Year 1 up to Year 5.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 11
A general guideline to weeding policy is attached.
Pruning should commence one month after planting with a three week
rotation. In Years 1 and 2 the rotation should be monthly. Pruning has to be
done to a maximum height of 2.5 m. White root disease should be controlled
monthly. Detection should be visual through inspection of leaf color and by
the mulching test but not by systematic digging around the collar. Such
digging has the disadvantage of causing wounds on roots which then become
more sensitive to white root disease infection. Fertilizers should be broadcast
over the legume cover crop without any premanuring weeding. In the case of
natural cover crops such as soft grasses, premanuring chemical weeding should
be done three weeks before broadcast of fertilizers.
5.4 Control and Inspection
A Basis for Inspection and Assessment of Work Standards
The system used successfully in the Fourth Agricultural Estates
Project (Credit 319-IND) for quantitative assessment of work standards in
new plantings would be extended to all major field operations. The inspectors
would make recommendations to the MOA Support Staff (for consultation with the
Bank) on a suitable system. This should lead to both improvement in work
standards and to systematization and standardization of inspection reports.
WEEDING SYSTEM
Legume Cover Crop                Pueraria Triloba Cover Crop
Year    Weeding System           Rotation       Weeding System         Rotation
0      Strip weeding          1 x 15 days    Strip weeding           1 x 15 days
width = 1.5                            width = 1.5
1      Circle weeding         1 x 21 days    Circle weeding          1 x 15 days
1 m diameter                           1.5 m diameter
2      Mulching - cutting    1 x 30 days    Strip slashing           1 x 20 days
back climbing                          width 1.5 m
legumes
3      As Year 2              1 x 30 days    Mulching - cutting   1 x 30 days
back climbing
creepers
4      As Year 2              1 x 40 days    As Year 3               1 x 30 days
5      As Year 2              1 x 45 days    As Year 3               1 x 30 days
* In all cases, lalang, Mikania and other noxious weeds should be controlled
monthly.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 12
FIELD TECHNOLOGY - COCONUTS
PTP XI
1.  The Nursery
1.1 Planting Material
1.2 Seed Gardens
2.  The Field
2.1 Clearing
2.2 Establishment and Maintenance of Cover Crops
2.3 Field Planting
2.4 Field Operations in Immature and Mature Phases
2.5 Production and Yields
2.6 Research and Development
3. Control and Inspection
3.1 A Basis for Inspection and Assessment of Work Standards



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 13
1. The Nursery
Tall X dwarf hybrid material from the PNP X seed garden would be
used for field planting. This material is of West African tall and Nias/
Malaysian dwarf parentage.
Planting material requirements are calculated in the following
manner:
Per ha of Field       x
Planting
Seed nuts from tree                                  250             100
Seed nuts after germination in prenursery            200              80
Seed nuts planted in polybags                        180              72
Seed nuts available for field planting               143              57
2. The Field
2.1 Clearing
Coconuts would be planted after felling, burning and clearing old
rubber or abandoned rubber. Clearing would be straightforward and if possible
the old rubber timber should be sold.
2.2 Establishment and Maintenance of Cover Crops
Leguminous cover crops including Pueraria triloba would be sown and
clean weeded for 6 months, after which light grasses would be allowed to
remain in the cover crop. In level/undulating areas with little risk of soil
erosion, a range of intercrops would be gown on a commercial scale with
detailed recording of operating costs and yields. At least 200 ha/year should
be under intercropping.
2.3 Field Planting
Palms should be field planted-as polybag-palms, at a density of about
143/ha. Small scale trials on size/age of polybagged palms at planting would
be carried out.
2.4 Field Operations in Immature and Mature Phases
The estimated fertilizer schedule is in Table 6.2, Section B3. Fertil-
izer recommendations would be based on leaf and soil analyses. Leaf sampling
and analysis would be carried out by Marihat Research Station and interpretation
of the results and their translation into fertilizer recommendations by the
consultant in coconut agronomy. PTP XI advised by this consultant would set
up a series of fertilizer and other agronomic trials on their estates, which



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 14
they would maintain and record and which would provide a basis for agronomic
and nutritional advisory work in the West Java environment. The eventual PTP
XI area of coconuts will comprise at least 12,000 ha and it is esential that
the technical bases for this program are developed.
2.5 Production and Yields
Estimated yields are detailed in Table 3.4, Section B3. Peak yields
of hybrids are estimated at 5.0 tons copra although they may reach 5.5 tons on
the volcanic soils. At 65% oil content, this is equivalent to 3.5 tons coconut
oil/ha. (Historically lauric acid oils have enjoyed a price advantage of 27%
over palm oil). Early hybrid yields in the Southeast Asian environment are
very promising, with yields of 2 tons copra/ha in Years 4-5 after planting on
Chersonese Estate, Malaysia.
2.6 Research and Development
The LPT1, the official institute for Coconut Research, is fully
occupied with the problems of coconut smallholdings over 1.8 million ha of
small farms found in every province in the country. They are unable to devote
their attention to the needs of PTP XI in the West Java habitat.  For this
reason it is proposed that the consultant in coconut agronomy advise PTP XI
in setting up an appropriate applied research program. There are very few
research data available and this program should be set up as soon as possible.
It would cover about 1,000 ha and would include:
- agronomic and fertilizer trials
- trials at different altitudes and in different micro-climates
- intercropping trials
- trials with coconuts and livestock
Trial results would be forwarded annually to the Bank.
3. Control and Inspection
3.1 A Basis for Inspection and Assessment of Work Standards
The system used successfully in the Fourth Agricultural Estates
Project (Credit 319-IND) for quantitative assessment of work standards in
new plantings would be extended to all major field operations. The inspectors
would make recommendations to MOA Support Staff (for consultation with the
Bank) on a suitable system. This should lead to both improvement in work
standards and to systematization and standardization of inspection reports.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 15
Field Technology - Oil Palms
PNP X
1. The Nursery
1.1 Planting Material
1.2 Nursery Organization
2. The Field
2.1 Timing of Clearing and Establishment Operations
2.2 Land Clearing
2.3 Establishment and Maintenance of Cover Crops
2.4 Field Planting
2.5 Field Operations in Immature and Mature Phases
2.6  Harvesting
2.7 Production and Yields
3. Control and Inspection
3.1 A Basis for Inspection and Assessment of Work Standards



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 16
1. The Nursery
1.1 Planting Material
The planting material used would be of high yielding dura pisifera
(DXP) germinated seed, produced by the PNP owned Marihat Research Station
(MRS) North Sumatera. In view of the considerable difference in ecological
conditions compared with North Sumatera, MRS would lay down at different
densities, and record, trials of a suitable range of DXP crosses and of
E. guineensis X C. oleifera crosses ("Melanococca hybrids") in an area of
about 75 ha which would be maintained by PNP X. Planting material require-
ments would be calculated as follows:
Per ha of
Field Planting        %
No. of ungerminated seed                240             100
No. of germinated seed                  190              80
No. of plantable seedlings              150              65
No. of palms field planted              143              60
Because of difficulty in selecting a satisfactory nursery site, the
consultants recommended that the first nursery be established at Teluk on the
banks of the Musi River. Seed for the first nursery should be ordered in
January 1976 and nursery site clearing commence in August 1976 to allow field
planting in October-December 1977. Early investigations into a suitable site
for a pemanent central sprinkler irrigated nursery should be made. All nur-
series would be of polybags spaced at 1 m triangular requiring (including an
allowance for paths and roads) 1 ha of land for 13,000 polybags.  For 5,000 ha
field planting the total nursery areas required would be 75 ha.
2. The Field
2.1 Timing of Clearing and Establishment Operations
The land to be cleared and planted consists largely of secondary
jungle and lalang grass. The clearing season extends for about 5 months and
clearing operations should commence about 5-6 months before field planting
which is centered in the October-February period.
2.2 Land Clearing
The secondary jungle would be cleared by bulldozer and cutter blade,
the lalang by plowing and harrowing. One bulldozer can clear 150 ha per
month. The first plowing operation would be performed by two wheel drive
tractors (75 HP), the second by four wheel drive (140 HP). The two harrowing



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 17
operations would be by either two wheel or four wheel drive tractors. In a
300 hour operating month (1 driver for 6 hours/day @ 25 days/month), over a
5 month clearing season, 1 two wheel drive tractor is required per 100 ha to
be cleared, whereas 1 four wheel drive tractor is required per 400 ha.
2.3 Field Planting and Cover Crops
Land is gently undulating with slopes varying between 5-15O.
Allowance should be made in the estimates for about 200 m/ha of soil conser-
vation bunds or terraces. Leguminous cover including Pueraria triloba would
be sown and clean weeded for 6 months, after which light grasses would be
allowed to remain in the cover mixture. Density of palm planting would be in
the range of 140-150 trees/ha.
2.4 Field Operations in Immature and Mature Phases
Fertilizer Schedule
The estimated fertilizer schedule is in Table 6.1, Annex I, Section
B2. Fertilizer recommendations would originally be based on leaf and soil
analyses using North Sumatera and Malaysian data as a guide. Leaf sampling and
analysis would be carried out by Marihat Research Station who would forward
their fertilizer recommendations to the PNP and also to the inspection services
for comment. The PNP would then forward their fertilizer requirement proposals
to the Bank for approval prior to fertilizer application. Marihat Research
Station would set up and record a series of fertilizers and other agronomic
trials as appropriate in the PNP X plantings. These trials would be maintained
by PNP X and would provide a basis for agronomic advisory work in the area.
Trial results would be forwarded to the Bank at the end of each year.
2.5 Assisted Pollination
It is anticipated that assisted pollination will be necessary during
the first 4-5 years of production. The PNP would take measures to ensure
that staff and labor are fully trained in this frequently critical operation,
some 6 mohths prior to initial harvesting.
2.6 Harvesting
The inspectors would make detailed recommendations for bunch
cutting, collection and harvesting systems including demarcation of harvesting
blocks, development of daily working programs, organization of labor, require-
ments of implements and equipment, organization of fruit reception at the
factory and training of harvesters in correct harvesting and quality standards.
2.7 Production and Yields
Estimated yields are detailed in Table 3.1, Annex I, Section B2. For
the purposes of planning mill capacity, the peak yield month crop is taken as
12-1/2% of the annual yield.



ANNEX I
Section A5
Page 18
3. Control and Inspection
3.1 A Basis for Inspection and Assessment of Work Standards
The system used successfully in the Fourth Agricultural Estates
Project (Credit 319-IND) for quantitative assessment of work standards in
new plantings would be extended to all major field operations. The inspectors
would make recommendations to MOA Support Staff (for consultation with the
Bank) on a suitable system. This should lead to both improvement in work
standards and to systematization and standardization of inspection reports.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 1
Processing Technology and Estate Engineering
PTP - XI
Table of Contents
1. Rolling Stock, Agricultural and Civil Works Equipment
1.1 Inventory and Physical Condition
1.2 Exploitation
1.3 Five-Year Rehabilitation and Investment Program
1.4 Investment Program
2. Roads and Bridges Facilities
2.1 Inventory and Physical Condition
2.2 Five Year Rehabilitation Program
2.3 Investment Program
3. Rubber Processing Factories
3.1 Inventory and Physical Conditions
3.11 Factories
3.12 Power Plants
3.13 Water Plants
3.2 Processing - Technical Methods and Results
3.3 Factory Production Costs
3.4 1976 to 2000 Estimated Production
3.5 Five Year Rehabilitation Program (1976-1980)
3.6 Project Rehabilitation Program (1976-1980)
3.7 Processing Cost Assumptions
4. Coconut Processing Facilities
5. Housing



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 2
1. Rolling Stock - Agricultural and Civil Works Equipment
1.1 Inventory and Physical Condition
1.11 Rolling Stock
(a) Tables 1.1 to 1.5/1 summarize PTP XI's existing rolling
stock per estate, type and age. All equipment is
generally old and under average condition.
(b) Light Vehicles
All jeeps are of the gasoline type. There are too many
types. "Nissens" represent 54% of the total but are the
oldest (10 years old). Only 5% of the total are less
than 5 years old. All vehicles, except the two 1974
Land Rovers are under average condition.
(c) Trucks
All trucks are gasoline powered. "Nissens" and "Dodge"
represent 80% of the total units. 75% of the whole
equipment is over 6 years old and 40% over 10 years
(i.e. 300,000 km). There is premature decay from lack
of preventitive maintenance.
(d) Wheel Tractors
IH International represents 65% of the total and Massey
Fergusson 19%. 58% of all equipment is over 10 years
old. No preventive maintenance is given.
(e) Trailers
70% of the existing equipment is over 10 years old.
No maintenance is given..
1.12 Agricultural and Civil Works Equipment
(a) Crawler Tractors
Two units over 12 years old are in very poor condition.
(b) Agricultural and Civil Works Implements
All equipment is over 7 years old and totally out of order.
No maintenance at all was performed. Essential spare
parts have never been bought.
/1  All table references in Section A6 are to be found in Annex II,
Additional Basic Data.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 3
1.2 Exploitation
(a) Tables 1.6 to 1.8 show inter-estates comparative figures
relating to the 1976 (up to September) results and the
Table 1.9 records the 1976 cost price breakdown per
category of vehicles.
(b) Light Vehicles
On several estates the monthly mileage is very high. PTP
average cost price is 46 Rp/km with a maximum of 70
Rp/km on CISALAK BARU Estate. Cost price breakdown shows
a percentage of 32% for fuel and 33% for maintenance.
These high figures are directly linked with the type and
the age of vehicles.
(c) Trucks
The very low monthly mileage per vehicle (i.e. 68 km/day)
probably linked with poor truck utilization (too many
units). Average cost price (80 Rp/km) is connected to
the type and the age of trucks. Cost price breakdown
indicates a percentage of 32% for fuel and 26% for main-
tenance.
(d) Wheel Tractors
Too low monthly working hours (i.e. 3 hr/20 day average).
The average cost price (Rp/hr) is too high and the
breakdown cost price shows a very expensive figure for
the maintenance.
(e) Tires
For all rolling stock, tire expenses are above normal.
(f) Civil Works Equipment
No figures available.
1.3 Five Year Rehabilitation Program
1.31 Rolling Stock
(a) Light Vehicles
Replacement of all units over 10 years old by purchasing
new diesel or gasoline equipment--40 units. With diesel
equipment the yearly savings would be about Rp 22 million.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 4
Actual     Forecast       Savings
Fuel            14 Rp/km      3 Rp/km    11 Rp/km
Maintenance    15 Rp/km       8 Rp /km     7 Rp/km
i.e. a total saving of 18 Rp/km on 1,250,000 km per year.
Estimated running cost = 25 to 28 Rp/km.
(b) Trucks
Replacement of all units over 10 years old by purchasing
new diesel equipment of 5 ton capacity = 50 units. With
diesel trucks the yearly savings will be about Rp 34 million.
Actual        Forecast      Savings
Fuel            25.3 Rp/km      6.5 Rp/km    19 Rp/km
Maintenance    21.0 Rp/km    12._ Rp/km        9 Rp/km
i.e. a total saving of 28 Rp/km on 1,200,000 km per year (each 50 units).
Estimated running cost = 50 Rp/km for 5 ton load (10 Rp/ton/km).
(c) Trailers and Latex Tanks
5 ton trailers are required for rubber transportation
purposes from estates to central factories. 3.5 ton
trailers will be utilized for crop collection inside
estates. 4,500 litre and 1,500 litre capacity tanks will
equip trucks as well as trainers.
1.3 Civil Works Equipment
With regard to the existing road conditions, PTP XI's needs are two
kinds:
(a)  Equipment for Road Rehabilitation
4 crawler tractors (type Cat. D6), 2 motor graders (70 HP) and
2 pneumatic pull type rollers are compulsory to rehabilitate roads
for good working conditions. Provision is made for two stone
breakers. Then PTP could utilize its own stone for making gravel.
Road materials are very expensive in Java and important savings
will be realized with this equipment.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 5
The two additional crawler tractors are estimated for agricul-
tural purposes and their purchase will be directly linked to the
replanting program. A tire compactor is a very suitable attachment
for rehabilitation of roads. It is pulled with a motor-grader and
prevents undesirable ridge rolling.
(b) Equipment for Road Maintenance
The following simple implement is designed to work with 75 hp
wheel tractors. Very good maintenance of roads can be executed
with an appropriate number of: rear grader blades for road sur-
facing and front loader attachments for earthmoving. A total of
10 and 5 units are estimated respectively.
1.33 Agricultural Implements
(a) Equipment for Field Upkeep
A total of 6 ploughs (3 discs) and 4 harrows (8 discs)
are necessary. This equipment should be attached to the
75 hp tractors. It will be required for the field
rehabilitation program.
(b)  Equipment for Field Preparation
1.4 Investment Program
The Table 1.10 shows the proposed five year investment program. The
proposed program reaches a total of Rp 766 million (US$1,827,000). This
amount represents about US$78/ha. Some 80% of these expenses are forecast
within year 2 and 20% within year 4.
This breakdown is justified by the PTP XI need for a decrease of
rolling stock cost per km (or hour) as soon as possible and rehabilitation of
estates and access roads within the early years of the loan.
2. Road and Bridge Facilities
2.1 Inventory and Physical Condition
Table 2.1 shows the distances between PTP XI Estates. All estate
roads are in very poor condition and without any maintenance. Most of the
access roads have an embankment of 4 m, and are already ballasted but without
asphalt. Frequently, drainage is non-existent. Hereunder are a few typical
examples of this road problem:
Bojong Datar Estate: Cikareo Division: 20 km roads - 3 bridges:
transportation time: 2-1/2 hours.
Inter-Estate roads: 12 km - unpassable



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 6
Bantar Jaya Estate:  1 large bridge destroyed (the river is crossed with
sky lift): factory access road: 5 km: transpor-
tation time: 1/2 hour.
Hambalang Estate:    Access road from government road:  7 km - very bad.
Menteng Estate:       Access road from government road:  22 km - transpor-
tation time: 314 hours.
Cikasunka Estate:    Roads are so poor that the four divisions of
Cikasunka have their own manual RSS factory.
Regarding bridges the problem is just as serious. Most have not
enough load capacity and are not maintained. Under these conditions, without
an appropriate rehabilitation program, it seems unrealistic to propose
factory centralization, and improvement of transportation facilities.
2.2 Rehabilitation Program
Table 2.2 summarizes estate per estate, the suggested rehabilitation
program for roads and bridges.  This program reaches a total of:
250 km of "production roads"       - rehabilitation at 60%
100 km of "access roads"           - rehabilitation at 60%
16 bridges "small size" 3.5 ton - rehabilitation at 50%
12 bridges "large size" 6 ton   - rehabilitation at 50%
5 bridges "large size" 10 ton  -
Bantar Jaya Estate - 1 x 180 sq m - new bridge
- 2 x 120 sq m - rehabilitation at 50%
Bojong Datar Estate - 1 x 54 sq m - rehabilitation at 30%
Hambalang Estate - 1 x 120 sq m - rehabilitation at 50%
2.3 Investment Program
Table 2.3 shows the breakdown of the investment program. Total
expenditure shows an amount of Rp 208 million, i.e. US$501,000 and represents
an expense of US$20/ha. Calculation of investment cost was made on the
following assumptions:
Roads
Production roads as well as estate access roads must be considered
as primary estate roads of 4 m width.
Cost price per km for a new road is Rp 475,000. If we consider the
PTP roads have to be rehabilitated at 60% of the estimated average new road
cost, the cost per km will be Rp 300,000.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 7
Bridges
An average cost price per sq m was calculated for baton bridge and
steel frames with wooden decking type. The amount of Rp 130,000/cu m was
obtained. The Rp 25 million estimated cost for the large Bantar Jaya bridge
(180 sq m) originated from a 1975 contract bid.
3. Rubber Processing Facilities
3.1 Inventory and Physical Condition
3.11 Factories
Table 3.1 shows the technical data relating to the PTP XI Sheet
latex factories.
Bulking tanks. Made either in brick with concrete or in aluminium,
their volume is generally too small to obtain satisfactory mixing of latex
necessary for homogenous rubber.
Coagulating tanks. The common size in use (600 liters) is rather
small. They are generally old, partly made of fiber or wood lined
with aluminium, and designed to produce non-continuous sheets. A great
number of plates are not in good condition and they give a non-uniform
coagulum.
Sheet batteries. These are generally old fashioned and below average
condition.
Buildings. Most of them have steel frames and a sheet iron roof.
Except for some recent factories, all need repair.
Smoke-houses. Except for a few units, smokehouses are old and below
average condition. The common type is a semi-permanent construction with
wooden frames and "bamboo" walls. Sheets are directly hung on bamboo sticks,
without lorries. The 1975 cost for 1 smokehouse, 5 room capacity, 1.5 ton/
day, was Rp 5.5 million (US$13,200).
Packing sheds and equipment. Buildings are generally too small and
below average condition. Equipment is very old (hand press) and the operating
procedure is not arranged to achieve efficient throughput.
3.112 Brown Crepe Factories
The existing equipment is generally set up in sheet factories
(Table 3.1, pg. 3). All the equipment is in very poor condition, nearly obso-
lete and does not fit the requirements of efficiency. Raw material storage
facilities are practically non-existent. Drying and sorting facilities are
generally very old. With few exceptions, PTP use these factories for making



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 8
blankets, which are then sent to the block-rubber factory for crumbling.
Because of their physical condition, it would be inefficient to include these
facilities in a rehabilitation program.
3.113 Block-Rubber Factory
At the present time two block factories have been erected at
Sukamaju, capacity 10 tons/day (SIR 5L and SIR 20) and at Tandjoresmi,
capacity 4 tons/day, closed since 1974 (SIR 5L and SIR 20). PTP XI also
possesses in stock (P. Waringin) the basic equipment to erect a factory of 8
tons/day. All equipment was supplied by Guthrie Pullen, set up in 1970/71 and
designed to produce SIR 5L from field latex and SIR 20 from cup lump. The
first problem is the very small market for SIR 5L quality. Best returns are
currently obtained from RSS production and in these conditions the Tandjoresmi
factory is not well situated (not enough raw material). The second problem
involves the process flow line and the equipment. There is no precleaning
stage in Sukamaju and the very high drying expenses (auto-dryer L and M: 140
liters of diesel/ton dry rubber). In addition, through lack of organization,
the Sukamaju factory works only at 50% of its nominal capacity. Regarding the
physical condition of machinery the main question is the lack of preventive
maintenence.
3.114 Concentrated Latex Factories
Table 3.3 summmarizes the main characteristics of the basic equip-
ment of the two concentrated latex plants in Pasir Waringin and Serpong.
Factory layout is not up to date and international standards of quality will
never be reached. Centrifuge machines are of 1977 Alfa-Laval type. Their
physical condition is below average except the 2 "new" second hand machines
for P. Waringin. Normal maintenance is not performed and balancing has never
been done. Concentrated latex is sold on the local market contained in drums.
3.115 Pale-Crepe Latex Factory
One pale crepe latex factory is running at Serpong. Equipment is
below average condition and will need rehabiltation.
3.116 1976 Existing Factory Capacity
Table 3.4 summarizes the factory capacity and Tables 3.5 and 3.6
their geographical location.
General Comments
There are too many factories of very small capacity. On the
factory side, PTP XI resembles a smallholder operation. P. Waringin latex
concentrate plant was erected in 1973, to centralize the latex of this area.
However, P. Waringin is not central, and the projected final capacity is too
small to be really economic. Neither is the Sukamaju block rubber factory



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 9
geographically central, but this factory is in operation. Furthermore, the
total production of lower grades never exceeds 12 tons/day for the whole PTP,
and the most efficient arrangement would be to centralize all lower grades at
this place. With transport facilities well organized and strong discipline,
transportation costs can be kept at a reasonable level.
3.12 Power Plants
Inventories for each estate of the existing power plant facilities
are shown in Table 3.7. To assess general physical conditions, the best way
is normally to record the date of the last complete overhaul, and the cumula-
tive running hours since this major overhaul. All engines are classified
per make, power and age.
Comments
Equipment is really dissimilar: 89 units; three principal suppliers;
MWM - 14%; Deutz 19%; Lister 18%. Some 58% of the engines are more than 10
years old. A major part of the equipment needs repair. But the most important
point remains the setting up of a spare parts policy in relation to the
equipment. To improve the situation, some engines would have to be replaced
by up to date machines; but to maintain the technical efficiency of this new
equipment, the implementaion of a routine program of preventive maintenance is
necessary. The very old but inexpensive water turbine system is noted.
3.13 Water Plants
The different possibilities of each estate and their equipment are
listed in Table 3.8. The most common water system supply is the very simple
"gravity system".
3.2 Factory Technical Methods and Results
3.21 Sheet Factories
3.211 Method in Use
Latex is bulked, strained and diluted in bulking tanks to reach
the drc of 11-14% required for coagulation. Diiluted latex is sent into
coagulating tanks (75-100 partitions). Formic acid diluted with water is
used as a coagulant at the rate of 4-6 cc/kg drc. Coagulum maturation is not
standardized: some etates practice coagulation/milling on the same day
system; some others practice ovenight coagulation. After milling on sheet
batteries (thickness of sheets 2-3 mm), sheets are hung on bamboos and dried
in smokehouses. Some estates practice overturn after the first drying day.
After drying, sheets are sorted according to the Indonesian classification
standards.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 10
3.212  1975 General Data
% of RSS.1        - varied fom 66-93%--good results.
% of cuttings    - varied from 0.8-3.6%--normal.
manpower day/ton - variable from 18-29 day/ton--too high (normal
average 14 day/ton) (1 day = 7 hours).
drying time       - 4-5 days--normal.
wood consumption - 3-5 cu m/ton--normal.
3.213 Comments
Results in terms of quality are generally good regarding RSS. Per-
centage labor in man/day/ton is high. Better organization and a factory
centralization program will bring improvement.
3.22 Brown Crepe Factories
Factories are very small and results unsatisfactory. Output of
equipment in kg/ton and manpower utilization in tons/day are low.
3.23  Sukamaju Block Rubber Factory
Raw material origin:
(a) Cup lump from estates - These are processed into thick
blankets through 5 creping machines. The throughput of
machines is very low as there is no precleaning stage
(hammermill + washing pump).
(b) Blankets - All blankets are granulated through Guthrie
granulation. Drying is performed through two Guthrie
"Auto Dryers" and then the rubber is pressed into blocks
of 45 kg and paletized. Technical results are average and
linked to the type of equipment.
3.24 Concentrated Latex Factories
3.241 Method
Latex is preserved in the field with ammonia at a level of 5-7 gm/kg
drc. At the factory latex is bulked and prior to transfer to the sediment
tanks, ammonia gas is added at the level of about 4 gm/kg drc. After sedimen-
tation, (2-4 hr) field latex is transferred to centrifuges and concentrated
up to 60% drc. Centrifuged latex is retained in storage tanks where ammonia
gas is added for stabilization.
3.242 1976 Technical Data
Average efficiency is rather low: concentrate - 89/85%; serum -
9-12%; losses - 2-3%.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 11
Regarding the labor efficiency, the figures obtained are probably
inaccurate--7 mandays/ton for P. Waringin and 2 mandays/ton for Serpong.
3.3 Factory Production Costs
Table 3.10 shows the breakdown in cost price per factory for the
period January-September 1975. Figures were not always easily available, and
sometimes appear erroneous. Regarding sheet factories, considerable variations
occurred between estates. The lowest cost, recorded at Menteng is Rp 6.44/kg
and the highest at Cisalak Baru which records a cost of Rp 23.10/kg. The
largest factory (Bojong Datar) records a cost of Rp 13.19/kg. For SIR 20
block rubber, initial processing is carried out at other factories, and the
transport costs should be considered. The figure quoted for Sukamaju is
Rp 16.58/kg, for crumbling, drying and packing phases. Additional costs of
Rp 7.13/kg for SIR 20 and Rp 1.55/kg for SIR 5L must be considered. Total
costs are Rp 23.71/kg for SIR 20 and Rp 18.13/kg for SIR 5L. In considera-
tion of the crumbling cost breakdown, it appears that 46% and 33% of the
total cost are represented by packing (pallettes) and drying (fuel consump-
tion). These figures could be reduced by an improvement (or replacement) of
the drying equipment, and by an increase in production within the capacity of
the plant. Besides, the PTP should look for a SIR 5L local market, without
paletization. Therefore the estimated cost price could be: SIR 5L -
Rp 15.50/kg with packing and Rp 8.00/kg without palette (local sale); SIR 20 -
Rp 19.50/kg (export). Production costs of latex concentrate are quoted as being
Rp 20.95 at P. Waringin and Rp 26.50 at Serpong. One must be cautious in con-
sidering these figures: Rp 10/kg (?) at P. Waringin. Compared with sheet,
concentrate involves less labor but more chemicals and power. A realistic
1975 production cost would be Rp 18.0/kg.
3.4 1976 to 2000 Estimated Production
3.41  Rubber Production Assumptions
3.411 PTP XI Total Production
Table 3.11 records the latest PTP XI total estimated production.
Calculation has been made on the basis of 340 working days/year.
3.412 Estate Production Breakdown
Based on the first production estimates (Table 3.11), the estate
production breakdown (Tables 3.12 and 3.14) for the 1976-80 period, including
a projection for 1986 and 1995 is given.
The basis of calculation was the following:
Working days             - 312 per year
Latex production         - 82% of the total
Lower grades production - 18% of the total
Peak production          - 11% of the monthly average production.
This assumption is based on peak monthly
production over the 1970-74 period.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 12
Owing to the fact that the figure of 312 days was utilized for calculation,
final production results in tons/day are very similar to those obtained from
the new assumption (para. 3.411) based on 340 days per year.
3.413 Production Breakdown per Region
Tables 3.15 and 3.16 show the production breakdown for latex and
lower-grade qualities over the 1976-80 period.
3.414 Production Breakdown Assumptions per Quality Produced
In connection with marketing estimates, it is proposed to adopt for
the future a well balanced distribution between the three main products, RSS,
SIR and concentrated latex. The table hereunder shows the suggested distribu-
tion from 1975 until 1995 through: (a) decreasing the RSS production; (b)
increasing the concentrated latex production directly linked to the local
demand; and (c) increasing the SIR 5L and SIR 20 production.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 13
Production Breakdown as a Percentage of Total Latex
Concentrate                 Total                         Total
Years   RSS       Latex       SIR 5L      Latex    SIR 20    Total    SIR
1975      76        16          8 /a        100
-         -          -           85         15 lb    100          -
1976      79        17          4           100
65        14          3            82        18        100        21
1977      79        18          3           100
65        15          2            82        18        100        20
1978      69        28.         3           100
57        23          2            82        18        100        20
1979      69        28          3           100
57        23          2            82        18        100        20
1980      46        43         11           100
38        35          9            82        18        100        27
1986      46        43         11           100
38        35          9            82        18        100        27
1995      46        43         11           100
38        35          9            82        18        100        27
/a SIR 5L + CR Latex + Latex compound.
/b SIR 20 + Brown Crepe.
Earth rubber and skim production, which should be examined later, is not
mentioned.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 14
3.5 Five Year Rehabilitation Program
3.51 Proposed Basic Guidelines
(a)  to orientate the PTP processing facilities to West Java indus-
trial manufacturing requirements;
(b) to process three main products (RSS, Concentrated latex and
SIR) with a well balanced distribution (39%:35%:26%);
(c) to keep enough RSS factory spare capacity to allow a quick
adjustment to the market requirements; and
(d) to centralize factories per area and per type of product.
3.52 Five Year Proposal - Final Objectives
Area 1 - remains in rubber.
Estates:      Pasir Waringin (WARI), Bojong Datar (BODA),
Sanghyang Damar (SHDR)
Product:      RSS
Proposal:     extension of BODA factory up to 10 tons/day
(loan fund)
Consequence:  WARI and SHDR factories should be closed.
Area 2 - will be converted into coconuts.
Estates:      Cisalak Baru (ALAK), Bantar Jaya (BANT)
Product:      RSS
Proposal:     centralization of production on BANT (PTP
funds)
Consequence:  ALAK factory should be closed.
Area 3 - isolated area (very close to Jakarta city).
Estate:    Serpong
Product:   concentrated latex (below international stan-
dards)
Proposal:  slight capacity extension by using the WARI
equipment (PTP funds)
Area 4 - remains in rubber.
Estates:       Menteng (MENT), Hambalang (HAMA), Pasir Maung
(MAUN), Klapanunggal (KLAP)
Product:       concentrated latex - (international standards)
Proposal:      erection of a new concentrated latex factory of
10 tons/day at Klapanunggal (loan funds)
Consequences:  MENT, HAMA, KLAP factories should be closed



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 15
Area 5 - will be converted into coconuts.
Estates:        Cimulang/Bojong Gedeh (TJAN/BOGE), Cikasungka
(TJKS), Pondok Gedeh/Ciemas (PODE/TJAS)
Product:        concentrated latex
Proposal:       extension of the new Klapanunggal concentrate
plant up to 16 tons/day drc (loan funds)
Consequences:  TJAN, BOGE and TJKS factories should be closed.
Area 6 - remains partly in rubber (SUKA-TJIB).
Estates:        Parakan Salak/Cisalak (PSKH/TSKH), Cipetir
TJIR), Sukamaju (SUKA), Cibungur (RJIB), Pasir
Badak (PABA/GASA), Ciemas (TMAS), Artana (ARTA)
Product:        RSS    - TJIB, PABA, TMAS, PSKH
SIR 5L - SUKA
SIR 20 - SUKA
Proposal:       extension of the Sukamaju crumb rubber factory
up to 18 tons/day (loan funds)
SIR 5L - 6 tons/day (SUKA, TJIR, ARTA latex
origins)
SIR 20 - 12 tons/day (11 PTP lower grades)
Consequences:  SUKA (RSS), TJIR and ARTA factories should be
closed.
All PTP small brown crepe factories should be
closed.
3.53  Factory Capacity - Yearly Distribution
Table 3.17 records factory capaciity per product over the 1976-80
period. Table 3.18 shows the factory capacity distribution up to 2000 compared
to the PTP production.
3.54 Detailed Investment Program
Tables 3.19, 3.20 and 3.21 give the detailed investments forecast
for each factory rehabilitation or erection. The total expenditures represent
an amount of US$1,445,000 (US$875,000 foreign exchange).  The breakdown is as
follows:
- erection of new concentrated plant 16 tons/day    - US$878,000
(US$54,000/ton)
- extension  of RSS factory (from 4-10 tons/day)    - US$308,000
(US$51,000/ton)
- extension of SIR facilities (from 10-18 tons/day) - US$258,000
(US$32,000/ton
3.55 Total Investment Program
Table 3.22 summarizes the total investment program and the yearly
cost breakdown.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 16
3.6 Projected Rehabilitation Program for the 1980-2000 Period
At this moment the estimated yearly production of the PTP would be:
latex 62 tons/ day; lower grades 12 tons/day. The projected distribution of
production could be: RSS 22%; concentrated latex 36%; SIR 5L + SIR 20 42%.
Additional Processing Requirements
1984: Expansion of factory capacity:
- 10 tons SIR/day in Sukamaju
- 4 tons concentrated latex/day in Klapanunggal
Total 14 tons/day
Notes: Cisalak Baru factory, Pasir Badak factory and Ciemas
factory will be closed.
Cost:   14 tons x US$46,300/ton = US$650,000
1992: Expansion of factory capacity:
- 2.5 tons RSS/day in Bojong Datar
- 3.0 tons concentrated latex/day in Klapanunggal
- 4.0 tons SIR/day in Sukamaju
Total 9.5 tons/day
Notes: Bantar Jaya and Cisalak will be closed.
Cost:   2.5 tons RSS/day in Bojong Datar @ US$60,000/ton
= US$150,000 (I)
7.0 tons concentrated latex/SIR @ US$46,300/ton
US$324,100 (II)
Total (I) + (II) US$474,100
3.7 Processing Cost Assuumptions
Tables 3.23 and 3.26 show the processing cost assumptions per product
over the 1976-2000 period.
4. Coconut Processing Facilities
According to the planting program schedule, no investment is fore-
cast for the 1976-80 period. For the time being a provision of US$500,000
should be made to cover the 1980-96 period investments.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 17
5. Housing
5.1 Numerical breakdown of PTP XI staff and labor
As an indication, Tables 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 provide the existing
number of staff and workers on the PTP. The hierarchal distribution is as
follows:
Directors, Managers,             Monthly
Senior Staff         Staff   Workers   Workers   Total
Number                        44              200      1,167      11,334   12,745
Percent                      0.34             1.57      9.16       88.93    100.0
Manpower/l,000 ha            1.8              8.0      47.0       453.0     510.0
5.2 Estate Housing
5.21 Inventory and Physical Condition
Table 5.4 indicates roughly the existing housing facilities for
staff and workers. Accommodation for most staff and labor is still very far
below acceptable standards.
5.22 Proposed Rehabilitation Program
Assumptions are based on the minimum number of laborers required
per ha.
5.221 Rubber Project
(a) Workers
- minimum labor - 0.3 laborers per ha
- labor distribution 0.2/ha for tapping (should be resident) and
0.1/ha for upkeep
- 0.2 laborer/ha represents 1 labor house per 5 ha
With the assumption of 1.5 laborers/house the requirement will be 1 single
unit house per 7.5 ha or 1 double unit house per 15.0 ha. For the projected
10,000 ha of rubber the total double unit houses would be 666.
(b) Mandors
The basic figure is 1 mandor per 25 workers. In this condition the
requirement of mandor double unit houses is 40.



ANNEX I
Section A6
Page 18
5.222 Coconut Project
(a) Workers
- minimum labor      : 0.2 laborers per ha
- labor distribution: 0.1/ha for harvesting (should be resident)
and 0.1/ha for upkeep
- 0.1 laborer/ha represents 1 labor house per 10 ha
- 1 labor/house can provide 1.5 laborers or 1 double unit per 30 ha.
- The coconut project is a total of 4,200 ha, i.e. 140 double unit
houses and 14 mandor double unit houses.
5.3 Bogor Project
For efficiency, headquarters should be transferred from Jakarta to
Bogor. This problem is very complex and should be examined in detail. A very
rough calculation of the expense involved has been made. Table 5.5 shows the
yearly investment, breakdown and the total investment.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 1
WORLD PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS OF PALM OIL
1.        During the sixties, palm oil production grew at roughly the same
rate (3.1%) as the production of all fats and oils. Since 1970, the growth
rate of palm oil production accelerated more than 11% a year, compared with an
annual growth rate of 4.2% for all fats and oils. This steep increase in the
growth of the palm oil industry reflects the rapid expansion of oil palm
plantings in Malaysia and Indonesia. During the late fifties, about two-thirds
of the world's palm oil output was produced in Africa: two countries, Nigeria
and Zaire, then supplied more than half of the world's palm oil. Although
still major producers, the combined share of these countries in the output of
palm oil dropped by 1974 to about 30%, slightly less than Malaysia's share./l
From 1965-69 to 1970-74, Malaysia's production of palm oil grew at an average
annual rate of 25%. Though Malaysia is now the world's leading producer of
palm oil, the decline in West African palm oil production has recently been
reversed, as rising per capita demand for fats and oils has led to large
investments in oil palm in several West African countries.
2.        World output of palm oil is expected to grow at an average rate of
about 7% a year during the period 1977-85. Most of this expansion is the
result of plantings during the sixties which are now reaching maturity. The
real price of palm oil is expected to decline from its current high level.
Although the projected price will be well above the production costs of effi-
cient producers, it will not cover the production costs of marginal producers
(independent smallholders and producers from wild groves). A decline in palm
oil prices, and a strengthening of the markets for natural rubber which competes
for land with oil palms in Southeast Asian producing countries, could slow the
pace at which Malaysia and Indonesia expand their oil palm acreage in the
latter part of the forecasting period. Overall, palm oil production is likely
to expand at a slower rate (5.1% a year) between 1980 and 1985. Malaysia will
account for a major part of the projected increase in output because of its
extensive recent plantings of high-yielding varieties. A smaller yet signifi-
cant increase in output is expected to come from Indonesia. In West Africa,
the Ivory Coast will be the leading producer.
3.        World exports of palm oil followed roughly the expansion pattern
of palm oil production; they grew at an average rate of 2.8% a year between 1960
and 1970, slightly below the 3.2% growth rate estimated for palm oil production.
Towards the end of the sixties exports began to pick up, reaching an average
annual growth rate of 18.5% between 1970 and 1975. Malaysia, Indonesia and the
Ivory Coast accounted for most of the rapid expansion of palm oil exports.
4.        An increasing share of the palm oil produced in West African countries
is consumed domestically. Between 1955 and 1974, palm oil exports from West
African countries dropped by 60%. The drop was particularly evident in the
case of Nigeria, whose market share fell from over 30% during the late fifties
/1 Civil disorders were a major factor behind the decline in palm oil production
in these two countries. Production was disrupted in 1964-67 in Zaire and in
1967-69 in Nigeria.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 2
to less than 1% in 1974. The decline in exports largely reflects the shortfall
in Nigerian palm oil production during the civil war years and its slow recovery,
paired with steadily rising domestic demand for edible oils.
5.        Increasing consumption of palm oil in producing countries, mainly
in Indonesia and West African countries, is expected to slow down the expansion
of palm oil exports. We project that palm oil exports will grow at an average
rate of 11% between 1975 and 1980; the growth rate will decline to 9% between
1980 and 1985. The share of palm oil in world trade of fats and oils will
increase from 6.0% during 1967-69 to a size closely approaching that of soybean
oil - 17.5% in 1980 and 23% in 1985.
PALM OIL IN THE FATS AND OILS MARKET /1
6.        Per capita consumption of fats and oils depends largely on incomes.
In several developing countries annual per capita consumption is less than
5 kilograms. In most developed countries it ranges from 25 to 30 kilograms.
Statistical analysis of the fats and oils consumption pattern shows that demand
increases rapidly with incomes at low income levels. At high income levels -
roughly those now reached in the United States and some European countries -
the demand responsiveness of fats and oils to increases in income levels off at
about 30 kilograms per capita.
7.        Regional consumption patterns of fats and oils generally reflect
regional production patterns and natural storage conditions. Economic protec-
tion and lower transport costs play an important role in the preference for
locally produced fats and oils. In temperate zones, soybeans, cottonseeds and
sunflowerseeds supply most of the oils needed in the manufacture of margarine,
shortening, and other fat products. In tropical and semitropical zones,
coconut oil and palm oil dominate vegetable oil consumption.
8.        Between 1960 and 1975 more than half of palm oil output has been
consumed in producing countries. About 90% of palm oil exports go to developed
countries. Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom account for almost
60% of world palm oil imports. While the shares of the three EuroDean countries
declined slightly during the past two decades (1955-75), that of the US has
tripled over the last ten years.
9.        The growing demand for palm oil in the United States largely reflects
movements in relative prices. The use of vegetable oils in consumer products
has increased at the expense of animal fats, as the latter's relative prices
/1  The term "fats and oils" is used in this annex for all fats and oils
generally classified as "edible/soap fats and oils"; these include soybean
oil, sunflower seed oil, groundnut oil, cottonseed oil, rapeseed oil, olive
oil, coconut oil, palm kernel oil, palm oil, fish oil, butter, lard and
tallow. In recent years, their combined production accounted for about 95%
of the total production of all major fats and oils.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 3
rose, and the price of palm oil declined, relative to those of other vegetable
oils. About 85% of the palm oil the US uses for edible purposes is utilized in
the manufacture of shortening, and only a small proportion is used for margarine.
(In the United States, shortening production exceeds margarine production.) In
recent years, the trend has been towards increased consumption of shortening
at the expense of lard. In addition, shortening made only from vegetable
oils has gained at the expense of shortening containing both animal fats and
vegetable oils, a shift which is likely to continue, mainly because of the
increasing awareness of the health risk associated with consumption of fats and
oils containing a high percentage of saturated fatty acids.
10.       An important distinguishing feature of fats and oils is the degree
to which their fatty acids are saturated. Oils with a high percentage of
unsaturated fatty acids - soybean oil, for example - are generally liquid at
room temperature in temperate climates, and are thus called "soft" oils. Oils
or fats with a large proportion of saturated fatty acids, such as palm oil, are
usually solid or semisolid. In general unsaturated fats and oils are used for
the manufacture of liquid fat products (salad and cooking oils). Saturated
fats and oils are the main ingredients in the manufacture of hard fat products,
such as margarine, shortening and soaps. Though previously palm oil was only
used for industrial purposes, improved fractionation techniques now allow it to
compete with other fats and oils in the manufacture of margarines, shortenings,
cooking fats, salad oils, confectionary and ice cream. However, soft oils
can be hardened through hydrogenation, and this has expanded the range of fats
and oils that can substitute for palm oil and other hard (saturated) oils in
these end uses. Dehydrogenation, the transformation of saturated fatty acids
into their unsaturated form, has not proven economic.
11.       Though technically most fats and oils are interchangeable, costs
of refining and specific end-use requirements limit the range within which
individual fats and oils are actually interchanged. The need for certain
chemical components (e.g. fatty acids) or certain physical properties (e.g.
flavor, color, smell, melting point) in a specific end-use gives the oil or fat
which has these components or properties a competitive adantage over other
fats and oils in that end-use ("specific demand")./l Thus each oil or fat
faces two distinct markets: first, the market in which it has a qualitative
advantage over other fats and oils; and second, the market in which it competes
directly with other fats and oils. The size of the first market of a fat
or oil varies with the demand for the end products which need its special
properties. The demand for this oil or fat in the first market is less price
elastic than the demand in the second market. In the first market, prices
reflect the relative strength of demand and supply for the individual oil
rather than the market situation for all fats and oils.
/1 Substitution between individual fats and oils is impossible if the end
product requires a certain fatty acid. Interchangeability is also limited
by consumer tastes and preferences; examples are olive oil and groundnut
oil which are marketed predominantly in their pure form because consumers
prefer their flavor.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 4
12.       Unlike other hard oils, such as coconut oil and palm kernel oil
which have a large distinct market because of their lauric acid content, palm
oil has no physical or chemical properties which give it a qualitative advantage
over other fats and oils in current end-uses. Because there is no specific
demand for palm oil, its price depends on the overall situation for all fats
and oils. Palm oil prices are most highly correlated with those of other
low-priced fats and oils - fish oil, tallow and lard - and the medium-priced
oils, mainly soybean oil and sunflower oil, which are widely used in the
manufacture of margarines and shortening. Palm oil's only effective competitor
in the "inedible" market, tallow, is traditionally cheaper than palm oil, which
gives tallow a competitive advantage in three major markets: the soap industry,
the chemical industry and the animal feed industry.
13.       The past decade saw a significant shift in the consumption of fats
and oils away from animal fats and oils to vegetable oils. Among the vegetable
oils, the demand for soft oils (soybean oil, cottonseed oil, sunflower oil,
etc.) has expanded more rapidly than the demand for hard oils (palm oil,
coconut oil, palm kernel oil). This trend is expected to continue. By 1985
the share of vegetable oils in total fats and oils consumption will reach more
than 70%. Continued strong demand for soft oils combined with growing supplies
of hard oils will exert increasing pressure on prices for palm oil and other
hard oils. According to Bank projections, world demand for all fats and oils
will rise to 51.7 million tons in 1980 and 57.4 million in 1985. Demand for
vegetable oils, which has grown at an average rate of 4.2% between 1960 and
1975, is expected to reach about 37 million tons in 1980 and 41 million tons in
1985. In spite of the advantage of the soft oils, palm oil enjoys a competitive
edge over them because of its low production costs. This is a strong economic
force which will continue to attract investments in this crop.
14.       During the past decade world production of animal fats and marine
oils has expanded more slowly than the production of vegetable oils. Within the
group of vegetable oils, soybean oil and palm oil showed the steepest increase.
On the basis of past production trends, world supply of all fats and oils in
1985 is expected to reach 58.3 million tons. Almost one-fourth of the total
supply will come from soybean oil, about 10% from palm oil. The total share of
vegetable oils (hard oils and soft oils combined) will be 70%, that of animal
fats and marine oils, 30%.
15.       In many of the developed countries, at present the main market for
exports of palm oil, per capita consumption of fats and oils is gradually
approaching a saturation level, and no large increase in overall demand is
likely unless new products and end-uses are developed. However, since its
price is expected to remain lower than those of its main competitors in shorten-
ing, and will continue to fall relative to that of soybean oil in particular,
demand for palm oil is likely to benefit from the growth in shortening consump-
tion.
16.       As the potential for expanding consumption declines in developed
countries, an increasing share of the world production of fats and oils will
have to be marketed in developing countries. Demand for vegetable oils in



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 5
these countries is expected to rise steadily over the next ten years. Parti-
cularly marked increases in the demand for palm oil are expected in Nigeria
and Indonesia, both exporters at present. Palm oil has a major advantage over
most other fats and oils - it is comparatively inexpensive /1 - and to some
extent it will replace coconut oil both for edible purposes and in the manufac-
ture of soaps. The greatest scope for substituting palm oil for coconut oil in
developing countries is in cooking oil. To obtain a product likely to be
acceptable to consumers (who traditionally prefer coconut oil for cooking),
palm oil has to be fractionated, and the crude liquid fraction (palm olein) has
to be refined (de-oderized, de-colorized, and the fatty acids removed) and then
either blended with coconut oil or flavored with coconut oil taste. In the
refining process many of the nutritional advantages of palm oil, such as its
high content of vitamin A, are lost.
PRICES /2
17.       Although prices for fats and oils fluctuated widely during the
past two decades (1955-75), they displayed no clear trend. Price fluctuations
reflect simultaneous increases or shortfalls in production and exports of major
fats and oils. They are usually related to changes in the normal weather
pattern (typhoons that affect coconut harvesting in the Philippines, a drought
that reduces soybean yields in the United States, etc.). The sudden increase
of fats and oils prices during 1973-74 was mainly the result of simultaneous
production shortfalls in coconut oil and groundnut oil.
18.       We project a decline in real prices of fats and oils during 1977-80.
The major assumptions underlying this projection are:
(a) An oversupply of fats and oils caused by:
(i) the rapid acreage expansion of oil-bearing tree crops
in recent years; and
(ii) the growing demand for oilseed meals.
(b) A weakening of the markets for fats and oils in developed countries,
where per capita consumption approaches the saturation level. Demand
for fats and oils in these countries is likely to come mainly from
the development of new products or end-uses and from population
growth.
/1 Food aid from developed countries, such as that from the United States
under P.L. 480, could make this price advantage ineffective. Subsidized
soybean oil exports severely limit the market potential of palm oil (either
domestically produced or imported) in receiving developing countries.
/2 The "price" of fats and oils refers to the weighted average prices for
fats and oils.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 6
(c) Conservative assumptions of overall real income growth in consuming
countries.
19.       For the 1980-85 period, a slight rise in real fats and oils prices
is projected, on the assumption that producers will reduce plantings in response
to declining prices during the first half of the decade and that developing
countries will absorb an increasing share of the total output of fats and oils.
20.       The level of palm oil prices relative to those of other fats and
oils depends on the share of palm oil in total fats and oils exports. The
effect of increased supply on palm oil prices is aggravated by the fact that
the market for soft oils expands faster than the market for hard oils (coconut
oil, palm kernel oil, palm oil). Although it is physically possible to substi-
tute hard oils for soft oils, the costs of dehydrogenation are high, and the
rapidly growing output of hard oils can be marketed only at lower prices than
those of soft oils. We project, therefore, a price differential of about 20%
by 1985 between palm oil and its main competitor, soybean oil. Soybean oil
prices (in 1975 constant US dollars) are projected at US$478 per ton (c.i.f.
European ports) in 1985, whereas palm oil prices are projected at US$386 for
that year. The declining trend of relative prices for palm oil (and other
hard oils) could be reversed through: (a) a reduction in refining costs
(easing the interchangeability of these oils with the soft oils in known
end-uses); and (b) the development of new end-uses.
PRODUCTION CHARACTERISTICS AND REFINING OF PALM OIL
20.       Palm oil is extracted from the fresh fruit bunches (ffb) of the
Elaeis Guineensis palm tree. The economic exploitation of oil palm is limited
to a belt within 10 degrees latitude around the equator. The highest yields
are obtained when the oil palm is planted on alluvial clay soil wi.th a well-
distributed rainfall of not less than 70 inches per year combined with 2,000-
2,200 hours of sunshine per year. These conditions are generally found in
Sumatra, East and West Malaysia, and Papua New Guinea; and consequently oil
palm acreage expanded more rapidly in these countries than anywhere else in the
world.
21.       A major factor for the expansion of oil palm acreage in Southeast
Asia was the weakening of the market for natural rubber caused by increased
supplies of synthetic rubber. Where soil and climatic conditions were suitable,
rubber was replaced by oil palms.
22.       Oil palms produce more oil per unit of land than any other oilseed
crop. Their fruit contains two oils: palm oil and palm kernel oil (the
latter is extracted from the seed). The trees' economic life lasts about 30
years. They produce their first crop during the third year after planting and
reach peak yields (2.0 tons per acre) between the eighth and tenth year; from
then on yields decline gradually (at about 2% per year). Plant breeders are
currently developing a new selection by crossing the Elaeis Guineensis (African
oil palm) with the South American Elaeis Oleifera (Melanococca). This new
selection produces more oil with a larger share of polyunsaturated fatty acids
than the traditional Dura x Pisifera varieties.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 7
23.       The harvesting of the ffb is the most important factor for the quality
of the extracted palm oil. The ripeness of the harvested bunches affects the
oil yield as well as its level of free fatty acids (FFA). The objective is
to achieve the highest possible oil yield at the lowest possible FFA content.
In practice, these aims are conflicting because the riper the fruitlets are
on a palm bunch, the more easily they become bruised, and this in turn causes
an increase in the FFA content.
24.       The formation of FFA in the fruit starts with the destruction of the
cells which contain, in addition to oil, lipolytic enzymes. The acidification
is limited to the cells destroyed and it is most active during the few minutes
immediately following the harvesting of the ffb. The near-maximum fatty acid
content is reached within 40 minutes. It is therefore of utmost importance
to avoid bruising of the ffb.
25.       The supply of palm oil is highly inelastic / because harvesting will
continue even if palm oil prices should fall below variable costs./2 There are
two main reasons: (a) producers have few alternative production possibilities
short of uprooting the palms;/3 and (b) they would have to collect the ripe ffb
anyway, to prevent the occurrence of pests and diseases in oil palms caused by
overripe and rotting fruit. The decision to extract the oil will depend
largely on the direct operating costs of the mill and the marketing costs for
the end products (palm oil, palm kernel oil, and the palm kernel cake).
26.       Palm oil is marketed as crude palm oil, Special Prime Bleach (SPB)
palm oil, crude liquid and solid fractions, neutralized, neutralized bleached,
neutralized liquid and solid fractions, as fully refined palm oil, and in the
form of packed products such as vanaspati or cooking oil. These products are
the final products of the various stages of the palm oil refining and fraction-
ation process. The refining process can be interrupted at any stage. This has
diverted an increasing share of crude palm oil exports into domestic oil markets
and the exports of semi-refined products.
27.       The objective of palm oil fractionation is to separate its liquid
and solid components. Physical or chemical methods are used. Physical methods
achieve a separation through cooling of the palm oil. The temperature of the
/1 This statement refers mainly to palm oil produced on estates. The supply
from independent smallholders working at the fringe of oil palm estates or
collecting fruit in wild groves is more price-elastic; these producers
usually have a wider range of employment opportunities than producers on
smallholder estates, and they are also less concerned about the danger of
plant diseases caused by rotting fruits.
/2 Variable costs include the cost of picking the ffb, the cost of transporting
them to the processing plant, and the cost of palm oil extraction.
/3 Intercropping is only possible during the first two years before the canopy
of the oil palm closes. Lack of sunlight makes intercropping after that
impossible.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 8
oil is reduced until the solid component (stearin) crystallizes in perfect
suspension in the liquid component (olein). The crystallized oil is then
pumped in a continuous vacuum filter equipped with a stainless steel perforated
belt. The crystallized stearin is scraped from the belt which is heated and
then conditioned to filtration temperature; the olein drips thorugh the
perforations in the belt./1 Physical methods yield between 60 and 75% of palm
olein with a melting point below 18 degrees centigrade, and between 40 and 25%
of palm stearin with a melting point between 40 and 50 degrees centigrade.
Chemical fractionation uses a solvent (hexane) that dissolves and combines
with the more unsaturated (liquid) palm oil components. The solution is then
cooled and crystallized. The solid phase floats on top of the combination of
solvent and liquid phase. The two layers are separated by pouring the liquid
phase into a separate container. The solvent is recovered from the liquid
phase through evaporation. Chemical fractionation yields a larger share of
palm stearin compared to physical fractionation./2
28.       The liquid fraction (palm olein) contains more unsaturated fatty acids
than the solid fraction (palm stearin). Palm olein is therefore mainly used as a
cooking oil, frequently blended with other oils (coconut oil, groundnut oil, etc.).
The solid palm oil fraction can be further processed into shortening, baking fat,
vegetable ghee (vanaspati), or soaps./3
THE INDONESIAN FATS AND OILS ECONOMY
Coconut
29.       Coconut has traditionally been the major source of vegetable oil
in Indonesia. In rural areas, coconut oil is extracted through boiling of the
fresh coconut meat. The oil is usually referred to as klentek oil. It is
estimated that slightly more than half of Indonesia's coconut production is
consumed directly, either as fresh nuts or processed into klentek oil./4 The
remainder is processed into copra for export or domestic oil extraction.
/1 To improve the stability of the fractions, the crude oil is usually neutral-
ized and pre-bleached before fractionation.
/2 Because the various fractionation processes yield liquid and solid phases
in different proportions, its choice depends largely on the expected
prices of the two main outputs, olein and stearin. At present the market
for palm olein is considerably stronger compared to that for palm stearin.
This gives physical fractionation a competitive edge over chemical
fractionation.
/3 The poor lathering properties of palm oil compared to coconut oil limit
the demand for palm oil in this end-use.
/4 Household surveys indicate that approximately one-third of the coconuts
consumed directly by households were processed into klentek oil; the
remaining two-thirds were consumed as fresh coconuts.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 9
30.       In recent years the domestic copra processing industry has claimed
an increasing share of the domestic copra production. Copra exports declined
sharply with the expansion of domestic copra processing capacity (Table 1).
The bulk of the copra production was processed, in the past, on the Outer
Islands, Indonesia's main coconut producing region. The coconut oil was
shipped to Java, the main consuming area. This pattern changed with the
expansion of copra processing capacity on Java.
Table 1: COPRA PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS IN INDONESIA, 1961-74
Year        Copra Production        Copra Exports           Share of Production
Exported
------------ 1,000 MT -------------           --------% --------
1961               733                  273                        37.2
1962               720                  201                        27.9
1963               692                  136                        19.7
1964               527                  191                        36.2
1965               548                  126                        23.0
1966               598                  175                        29.3
1967               562                  140                        24.9
1968               712                  260                        36.5
1969               715                  200                        28.0
1970               748                  185                        24.7
1971               730                    77                       10.6
1972               762                   42                         5.5
1973               660                   45                         6.8
1974               720                     2                        0.3
Source: FAO.
31.       Coconut production has grown at an average annual rate of 1.4%
between 1955 and 1974. This low growth rate is largely due to the substantial
share of over-aged trees, low yields and a slow expansion of the area under
coconut. The Bank's staff projects that coconut production will grow at
past growth rates during the remainder of the seventies. Alarmed by the
widening gap between supply and demand for vegetable oils and the potential
threat of a decline in the earnings of coconut farmers, the Government has
embarked on an ambitious coconut replanting scheme. Although the impact
of this scheme will not be felt until the eighties, the average annual growth
rate of coconut production is projected to increase to 4.4% between 1980 and
1990.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 10
32.       Coconut is largely a smallholder crop.  Although the share of coconut
estates has increased slightly, their share in Indonesia's total coconut pro-
duction is currently only about 1% (Table 2).
Table 2: COCONUT PRODUCTION BY SMALLHOLDERS AND ESTATES
IN INDONESIA, 1970-74
Smallholder                      Estates              Total
Year        Production    Share             Production    Share       Production
(1,000 MT)      (%)            (1,000 MT)      (%)       (1,000 MT)
1970         1,198.9       99.3                 8.8         0.7        1,207.7
1971         1,273.9       99.3                 8.9         0.7        1,282.8
1972          1,248.7      99.2                10.1         0.8        1,258.8
1973         1.274.4       99.0                12.5         1.0        1,286.9
1974          1,352.5      99.0                13.0         1.0        1,365.5
Source: Statistik Indonesia (Biro Pusat Statistik, Jakarta).
33.       In general, coconut yields reflect the age distribution of the
trees and the weather conditions during the year before harvesting. Since
1966, the area planted with coconut has expanded steadily, at an average rate
of 4.2% per year. Yet, during the same period (1966-75), coconut production
increased only at an average annual rate of 2.3% (Chart 1). Average coconut
yields declined at an annual rate of 1.8% (Chart 2). This decline in yields
reflects mainly the advanced age of the major portion of Indonesia's coconut
trees. Since coconut trees reach their productive stage not until five to ten
years after planting, new plantings during the late sixties will affect average
yields during the remainder of the seventies. Whether the downward trend of
yield will be reversed depends on the overall age distribution of trees and the
yield pattern of the coconut trees planted during the past decade. The Govern-
ment plans to replant existing coconut trees with hybrids, which would raise
annual potential yields from the current average of 700 to 5,000 kg of copra
per hectare.
34.       The Bank's staff projects an increase in Indonesia's coconut produc-
tion from 1.366 million tons (copra equivalent) in 1974 to 2.3 million tons in
1990. This corresponds to an average annual growth rate of 3.3% for the period
between 1974 and 1990. Coconut production will grow initially at a slower rate
(1.5% per year) mainly because of the large number of trees which will become
nonproductive and the new plantings which will not have reached their full
production potential. Between 1980 and 1990 coconut production is projected
to expand at an average annual rate of 4.4% climbing to 2.3 million tons
copra equivalent. The more rapid growth in coconut production reflects both an
expansion in the area under coconut and improvement in average coconut yields.



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 11
Palm Oil
35.       Faced with a rapidly growing demand for fats and oils - mainly
because of population growth and increasing per capita incomes - and the
prospects of a slowly expanding coconut industry, the Government looks at oil
palm as a major source of vegetable oil to meet the domestic needs for fats and
oils. Although it is generally argued that the Indonesian consumer prefers the
flavor of coconut oil to that of other oils, modern refining techniques,
particularly fractionation, have made palm oil products acceptable to the
Indonesian taste.
36.       Unlike coconuts, oil palm is largely an estate crop in Indonesia.
At present, public sector estates account for about two-thirds of the output
of oil palm products (palm oil and palm kernels), the remaining third comes
from private estates. Most of these estates are located in North Sumatera,
where soil and climatic conditions are suited ideally for oil palm cultivation.
Since the early sixties, palm oil production has grown at an average annual
rate of 7.7% a year. The combined output of palm oil and palm kernel oil is
projected to reach 1.2 million tons by 1990. This corresponds to an average
annual growth rate of 7.3% for the period 1975-1990. This projection takes
into account the age distribution and planting material of existing oil palm
and available information on expected plantings of public sector and private
estates (Table 3).
Table 3: SUPPLY AND DISPOSITION OF,MAJOR EDIBLE OILS
IN INDONESIA, 1970-90
Item                            1970     1975      1980      1985     1990
---------------------------     1,000 MT ------------------------------
Total Supply                     693      965    1,330    1,782    2,143
Palm oil                       214      404       695      986    1,164
Palm kernel oil                 23       38        65       89       104
Coconut oil                    456      523       570      707       875
Exports                          300      462       445      592       573
Palm oil                       159      386
Palm kernel oil                 20       30
Coconut oil                    121       46
Domestic Disappearance           393      503       885    1,190    1,570
M---------------------------- Million ----------------------------
Population                       118      133       155      176       197
--------------------------------- kg ---------------------------------
Per Capita Disappearance         3.3      3.9       5.7      6.8       8.0
Source:  FAO (1970, 1975); IBRD (1980, 1985, 1990).



ANNEX I
Section A7
Page 12
37.       Indonesia exported in the past approximately 85% of its palm oil
output. The small portion of Indonesia's palm oil production which was consumed
domestically has been processed into soaps, detergents and edible fat products
(margarine, shortening and baking fat). According to Bank staff projections,
Indonesia's total demand for fats and oils /1 will increase from an estimated
660,000 tons in 1976 to 1.6 million tons in 1990.  This projection reflects
the growth in per capita incomes, which will raise per capita fats and oils
consumption from about 5 kg in 1976 to 8 kg in 1990, and the overall increase
in population. If the supply and demand projections shown in Table 3 material-
ize, then Indonesia will increase its net exports of fats and oils only margin-
ally between 1975 and 1990./2 The growing domestic demand for fats and oils
will require either substantial imports or a reduction in the share of the palm
oil production which is exported.
38.       Although several studies of the Indonesian fats and oils market
found that consumers prefer coconut oil over other fats and oils, these studies
concluded also that palm olein (the liquid portion of fractionated palm oil),
blended or flavored with coconut oil, could fill the gap left by declining
coconut oil supplies. At present, Indonesia has a fractionation capacity of
24,000 tons of palm oil. Current investment plans indicate that Indonesia will
boost its fractionation capacity to 108,000 tons by 1978. Assuming that the
capacity is used fully, the fractionation plants will yield 70,200 tons of
low-melting palm olein and about 37,000 tons of high-melting palm stearin. The
palm olein will be used domestically, mainly as cooking oil. The domestic
market for palm stearin, which is mainly used as an ingredient in the manufac-
ture of margarine, shortening, baking fat, ghee and soaps, is considerably
smaller compared to that for cooking oil. It is likely that part of the stearin
will have to be exported. The further expansion of Indonesia's fractionation
industry will depend largely on the costs of palm olein relative to the price
for coconut oil. Because palm olein is recovered jointly with palm stearin,
the domestic price for olein will be strongly affected by the market prospects
for stearin.
/1 The total demand for fats and oils includes, in addition to the three
major oils shown in Table 3, several minor fats and oils (groundnut
oil, corn oil, etc.).
/2 Indonesia's projected exports of palm oil, palm kernel oil and coconut
oil would amount to about 2.3% of projected world trade in all fats and
oils by 1990.



ANNEX I
Section A8
Page 1
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture in Project Planning
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist in Project Preparation, Planning and Evaluation
Terms of Reference
Background
The Directorate General of Estates in the Ministry of Agriculture
is responsible for the execution of several ongoing, large scale, smallholder
tree crop projects, involving rubber, tea and oil palms. A major increase in
this program is planned for the near future. Accordingly, the Government of
Indonesia intends to improve the operating capacity of the Directorate General
of Estates in relation to the large program ahead. Specifically, a major
effort would be made in the spheres of project preparation, program planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation and for this purpose, the Director
General of Estates wishes to recruit internationally, experienced specialists
in (i) project preparation, program planning and evaluation; and (ii) project
financing, administration, monitoring and evaluation. The specialists would be
located in the office of the Director General of Estates, Jakarta, but would
have to spend considerable periods in the field guiding and assisting field
project staff. They would be responsible to the appropriate Directors within
the Directorate General. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government and World Bank and the terms and conditions of employment
would be subject to Government and Bank agreement.
Experience and Qualifications
1. As a minimum an honors degree or equivalent in agriculture from
a recognized University.
2. A minimum of 10 years experience in tree crop tropical
agriculture.
3. A minimum of 3 years in project identification and preparation
and in development planning.
4. Demonstrated ability in training staff in project preparation.
Duties
To assist the Directorate General of Estates in the following:
1. Planning the development programs for the smallholder estate
sector.



ANNEX I
Section A8
Page 2
2.  Project reconnaissance, identification and preparation.
3.  Preparation of project feasibility reports in a form suitable
for presentation to Government or external donors for financing.
4.  Organizing the work of the project preparation teams.
5.  Preparation and execution of formal training programs for the
project preparation staff.
6.  Development of project organizational management and evaluation
systems suitable for Indonesian conditions.
7.  Maintenance of close links with BAPPENAS, the National Planning
Agency, to ensure that project formulation is in line with
Government policy.
8.  Settler Administration.  Guidelines for settler selection and
recruitment, settlement planning and supervision, preparation
of agreements for settler participation, arrangements for
allocation of land titles, settler training guidelines and
materials, evaluation of settler development performance and
progress.
9.  Physical and Crop Development.  Planning and preparing develop-
ment schedules. Procurement of inputs for food crop programs.
Planning, surveying and demarcation of farm areas, villages and
roads. Preparation of settler training materials and technical
guidelines (in cooperation with the Nucleus Estate development
contractor and with the extension agents of the Provincial
Government).
10.  Crop Exploitation.  Planning for tree crop exploitation, process-
ing and marketing. Arrangements for marketing food crops.



ANNEX I
Section A8
Page 3
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture in Project Planning
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist in Finance Procurement and Administration
Terms of Reference
Background
The Directorate General of Estates in the Ministry of Agriculture
is responsible for the execution of several ongoing, large scale, smallholder
tree crop projects, involving rubber, tea and oil palms. A major increase in
this program is planned for the near future. Accordingly, the Government of
Indonesia intends to improve the operating capacity of the Directorate General
of Estates in relation to the large program ahead. Specifically, a major
effort would be made in the spheres of project planning, implementation, monitor-
ing and evaluation and for this purpose, the Director General of Estates wishes
to recruit internationally, experienced specialists in (i) project preparation,
program planning and evaluation; (ii) smallholder agriculture (with emphasis on
rubber), and smallholder development and performance evaluation; (iii) project
financing, administration, monitoring and evaluation. The specialists would
be located in the office of the Director General of Estate, Jakarta, but would
have to spend considerable periods in the field guiding and assisting field
project staff. They would be responsible to the appropriate Directors within
the Directorate General. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government and World Bank and the terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be subject to Government and Bank agreement.
Experience and Qualifications
1. Qualified in accounting with at least 10 years experience
including both commercial accounting and public administration.
2. Experience in the financial operations of smallholder develop-
ment projects preferably in conditions similar to Indonesia.
3. Experience as a procurement officer for at least five years.
Duties
1. To assist the Directorate General of Estates in (i) guidance to
field staff in financial operation; and (ii) in overall planning,
management and control of the financial and administrative opera-
tions of large scale projects. Specifically the specialist would
be responsible for:



ANNEX I
Section A8
Page 4
(a) development of suitable project financing, auditing and
accounting procedures;
(b) supervision of preparation of budgets, accounts, financial
statements and inventory records;
(c) budget and inventory control and internal audit;
(d) procurement supervision and coordination, including the
preparation of procurement documents;
(e) advice upon the provision of clerical and support
staff services.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 1
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
Advisor in Investment Appraisal and Planning
Terms of Reference
Background
The public sector estates industry in Indonesia comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 30 estate groups. These
crops are grown under a wide range of ecological conditions but are concentrated
in North Sumatra, West and East Java. The estates were badly maintained during
the serious political and financial difficulties of the early and mid-sixties
with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968 however, successive
rehabilitation programs have been initiated and steady progress in physical con-
dition and technical method has been accomplished. The stage had been reached
where it is now opportune to devote much more attention to:  overall development
policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of investment proposals,
coordination of investments between estate groups, improvement of financial manage-
ment, strengthening marketing organization and to centralization of specialist
advisory services. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, a number of specialists, to assist the Support Staff of the
Minister of Agriculture or its successor in the operation of this estate industry.
The specialists would be located in the Support Staff Headquarters (or that of its
successor) and would be responsible to the Assistants for Production/Development
and Marketing/Finance. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and terms and conditions
of employment would require the agreement of the Government and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. A well qualified accountant with at least 5 years experience at
senior management level, preferably in investment and merchant
banking.
2. At least 10 years working experience in evaluation and appraisal
of corporate investments and in the operation of investment
planning, and in programming and budgeting systems.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 2
Duties
He would assist the Assistant for Production/Development in the
following duties for a period of three years.
1. Formulation of short and long-term investment plans and programs
for the whole public sector estates industry.
2. Recommendations on overall public sector estate development
policies in accordance with national economic policy.
3. Assistance to the estate groups in preparing terms of
reference for investment studies.
4. Financial and economic analysis of feasibility studies and
major investment proposals submitted by the estate groups
for approval.
5. Training of Indonesian staff to fulfill similar duties.
6. Coordination and cooperation with the staff of the Assistant for
Finance/Marketing.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 3
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
Advisor in Financial Management and Control
Terms of Reference
Background
The public sector estates industry in Indonesia comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 30 estate groups. These
crops are grown under a wide range of ecological conditions but are concentrated
in North Sumatra, West and East Java. The estates were badly maintained during
the serious political and financial difficulties of the early and mid-sixties
with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968 however, successive
rehabilitation programs have been initiated and steady progress in physical con-
dition and technical method has been accomplished. The stage had been reached
where it is now opportune to devote much more attention to: overall development
policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of investment proposals,
coordination of investments between estate groups, improvement of financial manage-
ment, strengthening marketing organization and to centralization of specialist
advisory services. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, a number of specialists, to assist the Support Staff of the
Minister of Agriculture or its successor in the operation of this estate industry.
The specialists would be located in the Support Staff Headquarters (or that of its
successor) and would be responsible to the Assistants for Production/Development
and Marketing/Finance. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and terms and conditions
of employment would require the agreement of the Government and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. A well qualified accountant with at least 10 years experience at
senior management level, preferably in agro-industry.
Duties
He would assist the Assistant for Finance and Marketing in the follow-
ing duties:
1.  Scrutiny of estate group budgets, cash flows and estimates of
expenditure for the coming year.
2.  Comparative analysis of estate group performance jointly with
the staff of the Assistant for Production/Development in terms
of group financial management and individual estate efficiency.
3.  Formulation of policies and principles, for the guidance of
Government, in management of estate group corporate finance.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 4
4. Continuing review of the effectiveness of the "Management
Information systems" which were installed in 1975 and
formulation of recommendations for necessary improvements
in the systems.
5. Formulation of recommendations on financial policies concern-
ing taxation, dividend payments, asset valuation, depreciation,
allocations to reserves as they influence estate group
viability.
6. Training of Indonesian staff.
7. Coordination and cooperation with the staff of Assistant for
Production/Development.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 5
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
Advisor in Rubber Exploitation and Production Management
Terms of Reference
Background
The public sector estates industry in Indonesia comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 30 estate groups. These
crops are grown under a wide range of ecological conditions but are concentrated
in North Sumatra, West and East Java. The estates were badly maintained during
the serious political and financial difficulties of the early and mid-sixties
with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968 however, successive
rehabilitation programs have been initiated and steady progress in physical con-
dition and technical method has been accomplished. The stage had been reached
where it is now opportune to devote much more attention to: overall development
policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of investment proposals,
coordination of investments between estate groups, improvement of financial manage-
ment, strengthening marketing organization and to centralization of specialist
advisory services. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, a number of specialists, to assist the Support Staff of the
Minister of Agriculture or its successor in the operation of this estate industry.
The specialists would be located in the Support Staff Headquarters (or that of its
successor) and would be responsible to the Assistants for Production/Development
and Marketing/Finance. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and terms and conditions
of employment would require the agreement of the Government and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. At least 10 years experience of intensive yield exploitation
techniques and production management in a progressive rubber
industry.
2. At least 3 years experience at field level of the Indonesian
rubber industry.
3. Ability to impart advice effectively and to report concisely
and analytically on progress in implementation of exploitation
techniques.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 6
Duties
He would assist the Assistant for Production/Development in the
following duties for a period of three years:
1. to devise schedules of tapping and yield stimulation systems for
use throughout the tapping period. The systems would be varied
appropriately in relation to planting material, environment,
field history, tree condition, intended date of replanting, labor
availability and requirements.
2. in the implementation of the systems and would report regularly at
6 monthly intervals on the progress of implementation to the
Assistant for Production/ Development. In these progress reports
attention would be placed on yield performance, latex quality, bark
consumption, tapping disciplines, incidence of panel diseases and
tapping costs.
3. train staff specially selected by the Assistant for Production/
Development and the Production Manager of each estate group to
carry out similar advisory duties. These staff would be considered
as key personnel and the advisor would be required to report in
writing on their progress to the Assistant for Production/Development
and the Production Manager. The training program would include
short overseas visits to study yield exploitation systems in
neighboring countries.
4. in (a) scrutiny of estate group budgets, cash flows and estimates
of expenditure for the coming year, and (b) comparative analysis
of estate group performance in terms of individual estate effi-
ciency jointly with the staff of the Assistant for Finance/
Development.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 7
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
Advisor in Estate Processing/Engineering
Terms of Reference
Background
The public sector estates industry in Indonesia comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 30 estate groups. These
crops are grown under a wide range of ecological conditions but are concentrated
in North Sumatra, West and East Java. The estates were badly maintained during
the serious political and financial difficulties of the early and mid-sixties
with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968 however, successive
rehabilitation programs have been initiated and steady progress in physical con-
dition and technical method has been accomplished. The stage had been reached
where it is now opportune to devote much more attention to: overall development
policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of investment proposals,
coordination of investments between estate groups, improvement of financial manage-
ment, strengthening marketing organization and to centralization of specialist
advisory services. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, a number of specialists, to assist the Support Staff of the
Minister of Agriculture or its successor in the operation of this estate industry.
The specialists would be located in the Support Staff Headquarters (or that of its
successor) and would be responsible to the Assistants for Production/Development
and Marketing/Finance. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and terms and conditions
of employment would require the agreement of the Government and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. Well qualified in mechanical engineering with at least 10 years
experience in processing of estate produce with emphasis on
rubber and palm oil.
2.  Experienced in drawing up technical specifications, in evaluation
of machinery and equipment tenders and in procurement procedures
relating to importation into Indonesia.
Duties
The duties of the advisor would be:
1. To advise the Assistant for Production/Development on the feasi-
bility of estate group proposals for investment in new or expanded
processing facilities.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 8
2. To analyze estate group efficiency in processing and in the
use of agricultural equipment, transportation facilities
and estate infrastructure and to advise the Assistant for
Production/Development accordingly.
3. To improve and standarize tender documents and specifications
and tender evaluation procedures.
4. To collate and maintain full performance data on selected
machinery and equipment in use in Indonesia.
5. To record for use in tender evaluation, the delivery performance
of all suppliers, their after sales service and the availability
of spare parts.
6. To collate records of procurement progress by all estate groups
and make recommendations for improvement in the process of
procurement and disbursement.
7. To train Indonesian staff in the above duties.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 9
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
Advisor in Marketing
Terms of Reference
Background
The public sector estates industry in Indonesia comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 30 estate groups. These
crops are grown under a wide range of ecological ccnditions but are concentrated
in North Sumatra, West and East Java. The estates were badly maintained during
the serious political and financial difficulties of the early and mid-sixties
with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968 however, successive
rehabilitation programs have been initiated and steady progress in physical con-
dition and technical method has been accomplished. The stage had been reached
where it is now opportune to devote much more attention to: overall development
policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of investment proposals,
coordination of investments between estate groups, improvement of financial manage-
ment, strengthening marketing organization and to centralization of specialist
advisory services. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, a number of specialists, to assist the Support Staff of the
Minister of Agriculture or its successor in the operation of this estate industry.
The specialists would be located in the Support Staff Headquarters (or that of its
successor) and would be responsible to the Assistants for Production/Development
and Mfarketing/Finance. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and terms and conditions
of employment would require the agreement of the Government and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. Qualified in economics and marketing.
2. At least 10 years working experience in international commodity
marketing and in operation of a large marketing organization.
Duties
He would assist the Assistant for Finance and Marketing in the following
duties for a period of three years. Initially, he would review the following:
1. The organization, policies and procedures of all Estates Joint
Marketing Organizations.
2. The marketing techniques and instruments now in operation.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 10
3. The system of forward sales and of allocation of sales.
4. The financial arrangements in use regarding terms of payments,
credits, discounts, claims settlement, use of banking and
other services.
5. The existing marketing infrastructure both in Indonesia (transport,
storage, handling and post facilities) and at major destinations,
including the effectiveness of Indoham.
6. The cost and effectiveness of the present marketing system.
7. Following this review to be completed within 12-18 months of
taking up position in Indonesia, he would recommend areas for
improvement.
Further duties would be to:
8. Advise on (a) export policies, (b) potential for processing
for export or local use, (c) expansion programs for particular
commodities, and (d) export documentation and regulations.
9. Make periodic market analyses for the several commodities and
advise the Joint Marketing Organizations in their daily
operations.
10. Assist in improving the data and information base in the Joint
Marketing Organizations and the Ministry of Agriculture with
regard to past and estimated future production and demand of the
several commodities produced by the Government Estates.
11. Arrange and provide training to Indonesian marketing staff,
including participation in marketing training by the LPP.
Report upon training progress of individual staff.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 11
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
Advisor in Organization of Inspection Services
Terms of Reference
Background
The public sector estates industry in Indonesia comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 30 estate groups. These
crops are grown under a wide range of ecological conditions but are concentrated
in North Sumatra, West and East Java. The estates were badly maintained during
the serious political and financial difficulties of the early and mid-sixties
with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968 however, successive
rehabilitation programs have been initiated and steady progress in physical con-
dition and technical method has been accomplished. The stage had been reached
where it is now opportune to devote much more attention to: overall development
policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of investment proposals,
coordination of investments between estate groups, improvement of financial manage-
ment, strengthening marketing organization and to centralization of specialist
advisory services. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, a number of specialists, to assist the Support Staff of the
Minister of Agriculture or its successor in the operation of this estate industry.
The specialists would be located in the Support Staff Headquarters (or that of its
successor) and would be responsible to the Assistants for Production/Development
and Marketing/Finance. The positions would be financed through arrangements
between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and terms and conditions
of employment would require the agreement of the Government and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. At least ten years experience at senior management level in the
estates industry.
2. At least five years experience of inspection and advisory work in
the estates industry.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 12
Duties
He would assist the Assistant for Production/Development in the
following duties for a period of three years.
Set up and assist in the organization of Inspection Service
Teams which would have the following duties:
1.  Report periodically on the physical progress of the Government
estates companies, identify problem areas and recommend actions
to overcome them.
2.  Recommend on techniques for planting, upkeep, maintenance,
harvesting/tapping, processing, transport, civil works, etc.
3.  Advise on general estates policies, practices and procedures
and potential for future investments.
4.  Evaluate cost effectiveness of operations and investments.
5.  Review and evaluate implementation in comparison with annual
budgets and long-term plans.



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 13
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
Consultants in Management Information Systems
Terms of Reference
Background
In 1972, Government and IDA financed a management survey of the
Government-owned estates. The objectives of the survey were to (i) recommend
a suitable organizational and management structure for the above estates
sector, and (ii) develop an outline of a comprehensive management information
system. This survey was carried out by Sycip, Gores Velayo and the major
organizational recommendation to decentralize direction of operations was
implemented in early 1976. During 1974 and 1975, Sycip, Gores Velayo in a
further assignment developed management information systems applicable to all
estate groups. These were established in several but not all groups. There
is now a need to establish the systems universally and to further streamline
the existing systems. Government has requested that in view of their previous
involvement, Sycip, Gores Velayo be employed to continue this work.
Duties
The consultants would execute the duties listed below and be res-
ponsible to the Assistant for Finance and Marketing in the Ministry of Agri-
culture Support Staff.
1.  Advise Government on further necessary improvement in the
organization of the Government-owned estates sector (PNP/PTPs).
2.  Evaluate the existing management information systems and recommend
improvements for simplification of the systems. Assist implementa-
tion of the improved systems in all PNP/PTPs.
3.  Provide training to the staff of all PNP/PTPs and of the Ministry
of Agriculture Support Staff in the operation of the management
information systems and in the interpretation of the data produced
by the systems. Training programs for about 1,000 staff would be
appropriate to the staff level in the organization and would
include:
(i) financial statements,
(ii) systems of account,
(iii) principles and techniques of financial analysis,
(iv) reporting,
(v) internal control and audit,
(vi) budgeting and control,



ANNEX I
Section A9
Page 14
(vii) financial forecasts, and
(viii) investment appraisal techniques.
4.        Coordination of training work with that of the Estates Training
Institute and the financial advisors to the Ministry of Agriculture Support
Staff.
Staffing
The consultants would carry out the assignment over a period of about
two years. It is estimated that a consultant team of about 18 individuals
would be necessary with a time provision of 240 man-months.



ANNEX I
Section AIO
Page I
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
for the Estates Training Institute
Senior Training Advisor
Terms of Reference
Background
The smallholder estate crops industry in Indonesia involves some
5 million ha. The public sector large estates industry comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 28 estate groups. The
private large estates amount to 300,000 ha. The large estates were badly
maintained during the serious political and financial difficulties of the early
and mid-sixties with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968
however, successive rehabilitation programs have been initiated on the public
sector estates and steady progress in physical condition and technical method
has been accomplished. The stage has been reached where it is now opportune
on the public sector estates to devote much more attention to: overall
development policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of
investment proposals, coordination of investments between estate groups,
improvement of financial management, strengthening marketing organization
through centralization of specialist advisory services and training in estate
crop management. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, four specialists, for a period of three years to assist
implementation of the accelerated training program of the Government Estates
Training Institute (LPP) located in Jogjakarta, Central Java, and be responsible
to the Ministry of Agriculture. The specialists would be responsible directly
to the Director of the Institute. The positions would be financed through
arrangements between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and
terms and conditions of employment would require the agreement of the Govern-
ment and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. General acquaintance with large scale plantation agricultural
and processing operations.
Duties
He would be the senior member of the team of specialists and would
assist the Director of the Institute in the role of chief advisor with the
following duties:



ANNEX I
Section AIO
Page 2
1. Reorganization of the LPP along functional lines as described
in the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project I Appraisal
Report.
2.  Creation of a subcenter of the LPP in Medan, North Sumatra,
to teach rubber and oil palm agronomy and processing.
3. Identification of public sector private sector and small-
holder estates training needs.
4. Planning and direction of a program of local and overseas
training for Indonesian staff of the Institute.
5. Overall planning and direction of training programs for the
staff of the public sector and private estates industry and
for project staff of the Directorate General of Estates.
6. Evaluation of the impact of the above training programs.
7. Coordination of the work of the team of specialists.



ANNEX I
Section AIO
Page 3
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
f or the Estates Training Institute
Financial Control Advisor
Terms of Reference
Background
The smallholder estate crops industry in Indonesia involves some
5 million ha. The public sector large estates industry comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 28 estate groups. The
private large estates amount to 300,000 ha. The large estates were badly
maintained during the serious political and financial difficulties of the early
and mid-sixties with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968
however, successive rehabilitation programs have been initiated on the public
sector estates and steady progress in physical condition and technical method
has been accomplished. The stage has been reached where it is now opportune
on the public sector estates to devote much more attention to: overall
development policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of
investment proposals, coordination of investments between estate groups,
improvement of financial management, strengthening marketing organization
through centralization of specialist advisory services and training in estate
crop management. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, four specialists, for a period of three years to assist
implementation of the accelerated training program of the Government Estates
Training Institute (LPP) located in Jogjakarta, Central Java, and be responsible
to the Mlinistry of Agriculture. The specialists would be responsible directly
to the Director of the Institute. The positions would be financed through
arrangements between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and
terms and conditions of employment would require the agreement of the Govern-
ment and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. Qualified in accountancy with at least 5 years experience at
management level in the plantation industry and/or in agro-
industry.
2. At least 5 years experience in implementation of training
courses in financial control methods.



ANNEX I
Section A10
Page 4
Duties
He would assist the Director of the Institute in the following
duties:
1. Identification of training needs.
2. Planning and implementation of training courses in financial
analysis, planning and control methods. The management informa-
tion systems recently installed by Sycip, Gorres & Velayo would
be fully utilized in this training program.
3. Planning and implementation of training courses in the use of
data derived from financial analysis and control for decision
making and planning of resource use.
4. Evaluation of the above courses.



ANNEX I
Section AIO
Page 5
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
for the Estates Training Institute
Advisor in Training Methods
Terms of Reference
Background
The smallholder estate crops industry in Indonesia involves some
5 million ha. The public sector large estates industry comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 28 estate groups. The
private large estates amount to 300,000 ha. The large estates were badly
maintained during the serious political and financial difficulties of the early
and mid-sixties with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968
however, successive rehabilitation programs have been initiated on the public
sector estates and steady progress in physical condition and technical method
has been accomplished. The stage has been reached where it is now opportune
on the public sector estates to devote much more attention to: overall
development policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of
investment proposals, coordination of investments between estate groups,
improvement of financial management, strengthening marketing organization
through centralization of specialist advisory services and training in estate
crop management. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, four specialists, for a period of three years to assist
implementation of the accelerated training program of the Government Estates
Training Institute (LPP) located in Jogjakarta, Central Java, and be responsible
to the Ministry of Agriculture. The specialists would be responsible directly
to the Director of the Institute. The positions would be financed through
arrangements between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and
terms and conditions of employment would require the agreement of the Govern-
ment and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. At least 5 years experience in training junior staff and manual
workers in agro-industry and in selection and development of
training methods appropriate to the training needs of such
workers.
Duties
He would assist the Director of the Institute in the following
duties:
1. Development of the proposed Teaching Methods and Liaison Division
of the LPP.



ANNEX I
Section A10
Page 6
2. Appointment of staff to the Division with skill in the
selection of appropriate methods of teaching adults.
3. Guidance to the Training and Development Managers of the
estate groups in designing effective training programs for
junior staff and manual workers.
4. Guidance to the above managers and to the LPP lecturing staff
in modern teaching methods, including visual aids and training
evaluation.



ANNEX I
Section A10
Page 7
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
for the Estates Training Institute
Advisor in Management Training/Marketing
Terms of Reference
Background
The smallholder estate crops industry in Indonesia involves some
5 million ha. The public sector large estates industry comprises 650,000 ha
including rubber, oil palm, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, pines and
several fiber, spice and medicinal crops organized in 28 estate groups. The
private large estates amount to 300,000 ha. The large estates were badly
maintained during the serious political and financial difficulties of the early
and mid-sixties with an inevitable decline in estate conditions. Since 1968
however, successive rehabilitation programs have been initiated on the public
sector estates and steady progress in physical condition and technical method
has been accomplished. The stage has been reached where it is now opportune
on the public sector estates to devote much more attention to: overall
development policies, corporate business objectives such as evaluation of
investment proposals, coordination of investments between estate groups,
improvement of financial management, strengthening marketing organization
through centralization of specialist advisory services and training in estate
crop management. Accordingly, the Government of Indonesia intends to recruit
internationally, four specialists, for a period of three years to assist
implementation of the accelerated training program of the Government Estates
Training Institute (LPP) located in Jogjakarta, Central Java, and be responsible
to the Ministry of Agriculture. The specialists would be responsible directly
to the Director of the Institute. The positions would be financed through
arrangements between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank, and
terms and conditions of employment would require the agreement of the Govern-
ment and the Bank.
Experience and Qualifications
1. Qualified in business management with at least five years experience
at management level in agro-industry.
2. At least five years experience in implementation of training courses
in management as applicable to large scale agriculture.



ANNEX I
Section A10
Page 8
Duties
He would assist the Director of the Institute in the following
duties:
1. Identification of training needs.
2. Planning and implementation of training courses in management
activities, management relationships, decision making, coordina-
tion and delegation and systems thinking and organization of
marketing. In the latter function, assistance would be provided
by the marketing specialist in the MOA Support Staff.
3. Evaluation of these courses.






ANNEX I
INDONESIA                                                                                                               Sectto All
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT                                                                                                          Page 1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
SETTLEMENT PROJECTS MAIN ACTIVITES
Prb0, 0118 m nn      plogMi
Arvn  SLA RoN-su  E...e
111tctt.118h N--l *55                                                                                    -
At SomttI odd lnd oout
EltOblishrisn pmgr0    u                                                                                                          _fl _t0
COtl,t,c proj.P ,PIemelt.1,o.,db
Al-.-to  of 1.ad 
Ext.nd BIMAS PI09m
9711.110 8,101. Comrprto
Sob,11 0fnul0 0101k progom_                                                                          _            
Conotoote 81001110111.t
C09110nce 170.8  10801161
C-    ... Itind     _g                                                                                   -
851081181 Proj.0  191k account
SOt up 0tI8g.e 1111_                                                                                                                                                  _  
En-bl,t settle, nccounU
EsItlat, p17,0.1 ImnetoAl 10Otlltrllmotmt-
Gov6-nt_
F-td, t             19 Pr-,nantt  19778-j,0,._
W00117 Batk 17288



ANNEX I
Section All
INDONESIA                                                                                                       Page 2
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
PROJECT INPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ESTATES PROJECTS MAIN ACTIVITIES
Acfv|e Of a  tl2 
MOA Soppori &tf
Recom,, ,eidarf fonwlrania
Cp,rt .-th SGV for MISI
|-P1efr,. NlCVT0  a tfof prograo
EsftJeflh rAafue ,ncapefo,an,V e
Ip  S1 PNPjPTP,                                                                                                                        __ PNP X_PT_X_I
Conl,arf .09,0 Cmaolilr frm. for
PNpotf,o  tOF t Xo PNP X .d PTP XIl
Lefofes fra,r,ng Incaitufa
RTc                 mirr    cofl llnft                                                                  _
P    .er Ala-ining pm,rr,,,
*mplaloni mea fVr ringn rogror                                                                                                                                 _________________
PTP Xi
Comd,fnare pfarf,r dqBf,g Pauf.
C-nd-r mo-e Beflng 9il9
Card,, ape.,, 81, 00ing In.
Sole P. Ala,. and 7 Cu
PTP  X P  
Re.I - foOd        n  o idmn flu N
Apponf arofOteof afor head offiFk_7_
T,ansefe  mad   offida_________________
Con mf,fe at fa el a.                                                                                                      _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _
Eaiebl hr,,irerie.
Commanor biald pfarrim9
Commence ,ffob,l ira,,o,,
Ga ermm7fl
0090,0,pk rormm, siaff fo MOA
Cmoa,fr PNP X9noPT safOf,_
Fpnds for peefinonco fOil dcvf.itee
Transfe, Sarong Esiafelandfo PNP9X
World Bark-f 7287



