Report No. 1465c-IND                                                               FILE  COPY
Indonesia  Nudleus Estates and Smaliholders I
Project
(In Four Volumes)
Volume 1: Introduction and Summary
October 31, 1977
General Agriculture Division
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -   Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           =   RP 415
Rp 1           =   US$0.002
Rp 1,000,000   =   US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg) - 1,000 grams (gm) = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton    =  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha) - 10,000 square meters (m2) - 2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Adat                   - Body of traditional law
Agraria                - Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
Alangalang             - A coarse grass, establishing itself after the
slash and burn cycle
Bina Marga             - Directorate General of Highways
Bupati                 - District Chief Executive
Department Kesehatan  - Department of Health
Desa                   - Village
Dokabu                 - District Health Officer
Dukuh                  - Hamlet of 25-30 houses
Dukun                  - Traditional midwife
Gabah                  - Unhusked rice
Gotong-royong          - Community self-help project
Hak Pakai              - Individual's right of use or exploitation of
assigned land
Hak Milik              - Right to full ownership of land
Kabupaten              - District
Kecamatan              - Subdistrict
Marga                  - Community grouping under Adat Law
Mushalla               - Small prayer house
Mantri                 - Male nurse
Puskesmas              - Community Health Center, subdistrict level
Promokesa              - Village Health Promoter
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
--    FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission in August 1975,
and an appraisal mission in November 1975. Additional discussions for the
Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I Project were held in Jakarta in October
1976 with Government. The personnel involved included: Messrs. B.S Gray,
P.R. Melkye, W.P. Panton (Bank), B.H. Pottker (RSI) and Messrs. T. Sitkoff,
H.T.E. Smith, C. Carlier, and J.P. Bougeard (Consultants). Messrs. J.
Greenwood (Consultant), P.K. Pollak and N. Owens also contributed to the
preparation of the report.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be ud by recipients only in the peftormance
of their officl duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosd without World Sank authorization.






ABBREVIATIONS
ARD             - Agency for (Agriculture) Research and Development
BAKOSURTANAL   - National Coordinating Agency of Survey and Mapping
BAL            - Basic Agrarian Law
BAPPEDA        - Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS       - Badan Perancana Pembangunan National, National Development
Planning Agency
BIMAS          - Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance
Program for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input-
credit package program
BKU            - Badan Khusus Urusan - Special Board for the Affairs of the
State-Owned Estates
BRI            - Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BUUD           - Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village Unit
Cooperative
CP             - Cooperative Program
CRIA           - Central Research Institute for Agriculture
CRSR           - Center for Rural Sociology Research (Bogor)
DGE             - Directorate General of Estates
DGFD           - Directorate General for Food Crop Development
DIP-            - Daftar Isian Projek - Project Budget Document
DOA            - Department of Agriculture
DPD            - Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - Smallholders Estates Services
DRC             - Dry Rubber Content
FAO            - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI            - Government of Indonesia
INPRES         - Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" - a special
program
IPEDA          - Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
.3MO           - Joint Marketing Office
KUD            - Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
LPP            - Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan, Estates Training Institute -
Yogyakarta
LPTI           - Industrial Crops Research Institute, Bogor
MOA             - Ministry of Agriculture
MOL             - Ministry of Labor, Transmigration and Cooperatives
MOT            - Ministry of Trade
MCH            - Maternal and Child Health
Mil.           - Million
MSL             - Minimum Subsistence Level
REPELITA  I    - First Five Year Plan (1969/70 - 1973/74)
REPELITA II    - Second Five Year Plan (1974/75 - 1979/80)
PKK            - Primary Health Care Nurse
PMU            - Project Management Unit
PNP            - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, State-Owned Estate Enterprise
PT             - Perseroan Terbatas - State-Owned Corporation Operating Under
the Commercial Code with Limited Liability
PTP            - Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, State-Owned Estate Enterpise
with Limited Liability






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY                                              i-xv
I. THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A. The Sector.                                                1
B. The Subsector.                                             2
1.  The Natural Resource Base  . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
2.  Structure of Agricultural Production . . . . . . .   3
3.  Agricultural Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
4.  Government Intervention in the Subsector . . . . .   6
5. Approaches to Tree Crop Development  . . . . . . .   7
II.  PURPOSE, PRIORITY AND FORMULATION OF PROJECT. . . . . . . . .   7
A.  Project Requirements and Constraints . . . . . . . . .   7
B. Project Objectives .10
C. Project Formulation .12
1. Project Areas .12
2.  Family Incomes, Cost Recovery and Farm Plan
in Settlement Subprojects  . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
3. General Standards  . .......  ...  ..  ..   .   15
III.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION, COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . .  17
A.  The Project  .....................   17
1.    Summary    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
2. Project Phasing  ..........  ...  ...   .   20
3. Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
B. Project Cost Estimates .....  . ......... .   30
C. Project Financing Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
D. Budgeting.                                                35
E.   Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
F. Disbursement .................... .  39



2-
Page No.
G.  Quality and Cost Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
H.  Accounting and Auditing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
I.  Rent and Cost Recovery ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
IV.  ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMtENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . .    47
A.  General  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47
B.  Legal Framework  ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47
C.  Borrowing/Executing Agency Functions . . . . . . . . .    48
D.  Aspects of Project Implementation. . . . . . . . . . .    53
E.  The Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    55
V.  DEMAND, MARKETING ARRANGEMENTS AND PRODUCT PRICES . . . . . .    55
A.  Price Outlook for Natural Rubber . . . . . . . . . . .    55
B.  Smallholder Rubber Price . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .     56
C.  Demand and Supply Outlook for Palm Oil
and Coconut Oil in Indonesia . . . . . . . . . . . .    57
D.  Price Outlook for Fats and Oils  . . . . . . . . . . .    59
E. Food Crops ....  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  60
F. Marketing  .                   . . . . . . . . . . . .    60
VI. PRODUCTION ASPECTS, TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS, AND FARM INCOMES .    61
A.  Crops Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    61
B.  Crops Recommendations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    62
C.  Impact on Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . . . .    64
D. Farm Model.                                                64
E. Farm Incomes   ..65
VII. COSTS AND BENEFITS .68
A. Project Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . .    68
B. Costs  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  69
C. Financial Results  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  70
D. Economic Results ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  72
E. Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    75
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .76
CHARTS
1. Organization Chart of Government Owned Estates System     17279
2.  Organization Chart of Government Owned Estate Group      17280
3.  Organization Chart of Directorate General of Estates     17281
4.  Organization Chart of Provincial Government              17282
5.  Organization Chart of Settlement Projects                17283
6.  Organization Chart of Flow of Funds - Credit Items       17284
7.  Organization Chart of Flow of Funds - Non-Credit Items    17285
8. Bar Chart - Project Implementation Schedule - Settlement
Activities                                  17286
9. Bar Chart - Project Implementation Schedule -
Estates Activities                          17287



-3-
FIGURES
1. Settlement Development Plans
2. Schematic Settlement Layout - Rubber and Food Crop Area
3. Low Cost House Plan - First Stage
MAPS
12723 Alue Iemerah Settlement Area
12724 PNP X Project and Tebenan Settlement Project
12726 PTP XI Estate Development
ANNEXES      RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
ANNEX I     DOCUMENTS FOR USE OF EXECUTING AGENCY AND SUPERVISION
MISSIONS
Section A    Planning and Implementation
Al Project Area
A2 Settlement Planning, Layout, Infrastructure, and Roads
A3 Rubber Development:
1. Terms of Reference for Rubber Contractor for
Development and Provision of Services.
2. Draft Contracts
A4 Guidelines for Selection and Recruitment of Settlers
A5 Field Technology Rubber, Coconuts, Oil Palms
A6 Processing Technology and Estate Engineering
A7 World Production and Exports of Palm Oil
A8 Technical Assistance to Director General of Estates in
Project Planning, Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
A9 Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
A10 Technical Assistance to Ministry of Agriculture for
the Estates Training Institute
All Project Implementation Schedules
Sections B,
C and D   Statistical Annex
Section B    Project Physical and Unit Cost Basic Data Tables
Bl Smallholder Components
B2 PNP X
B3 PTP XI



-4 -
Section C   Project Investment Costs and Financial Tables
Cl Smallholder Components
C2 PUIP X
C3 PTP XI
C4 Technical Assistance
C5 Total Project Costs and Financing Tables
Section D   Cost Benefit Data
Dl Cost Benefit Analysis
D2 Economic Analysis
ANIMEX 11    BACKGROUNID REFERENCE DOCUMENTS
1. The Indonesian Rubber Industry
2. The Public Sector Estates Industry
3. The BIMAS Program
4.   (i)  Consultants Preparation Reports on Alue Iemerah and
Tebenan Settlement Projects
(ii) Consultants and PTP XI Preparation Reports on PNP X
Expansion and PTP XI Rehabilitation
5. Preappraisal 2Iission Aide Memoire to Government
6. Minister of Agriculture Decree 129/Kpts/OP/3/1975
7.  Training Program for Estate Mangement - Full Report
8. Additional Detailed Basic Data
1. Alue Iemerah Settlement - Aceh
2. Tebenan Settlement - South Sumatera
3. PNP X
4. PTP XI



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
A. The Sector
1.        Agriculture which is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy,
accounts for 43% of the gross domestic product (GDP), nearly two thirds of
employment and close to 80% of non-oil exports. In 1973, food crops, princi-
pally rice, accounted for 65% of total agricultural output, while plantation
crops, including production by smallholders accounted for 6 - 8% of total
agricultural GDP. Indonesia has a dual agricultural structure, consisting of
12 - 13 million smallholders cultivating some 13 million ha and about 1,300
large estates covering about 1.7 million ha. With the exception of oil palms,
smallholders dominate in the production of all subsistence and cash crops, and
70% of all farms comprise less than one hectare of land.
2.        The major emphasis of the First Five-Year Plan (1969-74) was on
rehabilitation of neglected infrastructure, especially in irrigation and
transportation, and on the expansion of production in agriculture for both
domestic and foreign markets. The most important single objective achieved
was the increase by 47% in rice production in the five-year period, largely
through a major expansion of the existing schemes for the supply of current
inputs and credit to farmers (BIMAS/INMAS). In addition to economic objec-
tives, the Second Five-Year Plan (1974-79) stresses the importance of agri-
culture in the creation of opportunities and improvement of living standards
for the large rural population, focusing on employment, equitable income
distribution, regional growth and social development.
3.        Any program designed to contribute to these broad objectives must
focus on agriculture. The major problems of the sector relate to overpopula-
tion in Java, substantial underemployment, uneconomic small farm holdings,
low levels of productivity, and a scarcity relative to requirements of large
areas of fertile soil. On Java, about 70% of Indonesia's population live on
about 7% of the total land area. Furthermore, about 70% of all agricultural
employment occurs on the islands of Java, Madura and Bali. Problems arising
from this concentration of population are compounded by the natural increase
in population of some 3 million persons per year. The Government plans to
alleviate these problems through the intensification of agricultural opera-
tions and the consequent increase in production in Java. It is also recog-
nized that Indonesia's future agricultural development will increasingly
have to rely on the exploitation of the under-utilized resources of the Other



- ii -
Islands to meet the needs of a growing population at higher standards of
living, to create employment opportunities to absorb the increasing labor
force and to reduce the pressure on land in the Inner Islands. These islands
of Sumatera, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Irian Jaya are estimated to have as
much as 40 million ha of unutilized, cultivable new land, approximately four
times the existing area under cultivation in these islands.
4.        A major constraint to new land development in the Other Islands
is the lack of suitable agricultural options for these lands of which 85% is
estimated to be upland soils of low to moderate fertility. Many of these
upland areas are or have been under shifting cultivation because, under
traditional technology, they cannot sustain continuous annual cropping. On
the basis of presently proven technology, these large, uncultivated lands
have only limited potential for food crop production. Therefore, present
knowledge would largely limit development of these areas to the cultivation
of tree crops, requiring substantial capital investment. This latter option
is suitable for the Indonesian estate industry, but smallholder development
would be more effectively undertaken in a mixed farming system balancing food
crops and tree crops, especially to avoid settler dependence on earnings from
export crops to purchase his basic subsistence needs. However, until results
of research and pilot projects clarify suitable agricultural options for
these soils, new land development in the Other Islands is at present best
achieved by tree crops as the major productive component. The proposed
project would follow this latter form of development and would contribute to
the settlement of the substantial landless or near landless rural population
in Sumatera while intensifying agricultural crop production. This would be
the 13th Bank Group-assisted project in support of agricultural development
in the Other Islands of Indonesia.
B. The Tree Crops Subsector
5.        Tree crops provide the major agricultural export produce of
Indonesia, earning annually about $250 million in foreign exchange. The
total area of major tree crops including rubber, coconuts, coffee, oil palms,
tea and cloves in Indonesia is estimated to be about 4.5 million ha mainly
comprising low yielding smallholdings. Production growth rates for tree crops
in the last five years averaged 10% per annum for oil palms, 3.3% for rubber
and 1.9% for copra. However, recent new tree crop plantings have been less
than 2.5% per annum of the planted areas or about 100,000 ha. This rate of
increase has not fulfilled the requirement of an adequate replanting program
estimated to be about 190,000 ha of new tree crop plantings per annum with
rubber representing 100,000 ha of this total and coconuts 50,000 ha.
6.        The tree crops subsector is characterized by the low productivity
of smallholders compared with public sector estates. Although smallholder
tree crops occupy four times the area of estates, total value of smallholder
production is only 2.5 times higher than estate production. Indonesian
rubber smallholders represent a low income group with few means for improve-
ment. It is estimated that in Sumatera, 700,000 families living on approxi-
mately one million rubber small holdings have only about one ha of rubber and
receive a maximum cash income from rubber of $100 per annum. About 90% of



- iii -
all Sumateran rubber smallholders have incomes less than is adequate to
satisfy minimum nutritional requirements. A large proportion of their trees
are old, low yielding and rapidly reaching the end of their economic life.
However, these smallholders, because of their excessively small holdings
cannot afford to replant their poor yielding rubber and forego income during
the immature phase of their replanted trees. The planting material obtained
by smallholders is generally low yielding. Fertilizer is generally not used
0nu tree crop maintenance is almost completely neglected.
7.        A smallholder tree crop intensification program for Sumatera rele-
vant to the needs of the situation would be enormous in scale when related
both to past programs and to programs implemented in other countries. Apart
from the problem of scale, operating conditions would be diverse in terms of
location, nature and size of land area for development, the structure of
smallholder production, the level of infrastructure and the availability of
management and technical services. There is as yet no well defined Government
policy concerning the balance to be achieved between new land development and
improvement of existing tree crop areas. Government objectives, however, in
relation to new smallholdings are (a) maximization of job creation at minimal
cost; (b) the provision of sufficient assistance to provide family incomes
comparable with surrounding areas, coupled with opportunity for further
significant income growth through the smallholders/ settlers own efforts; and
(c) the fullest possible utilization of farm family labor.
8.        The Indonesian public sector estate industry comprises 28 estate
groups (PNP/PTPs) located mainly in northern Sumatera and in Java with over
500,000 ha of plantation crops. In contrast to the majority of. rubber
small-holdings these large public sector estates now employ advanced tech-
nology and have great potential for crop production. Although they were
seriously debilitated during the early and mid-sixties, management and
technical capabilities have steadily improved in the past several years.
These estate enterprises now employ almost 500,000 resident and seasonal
staff and labor.
Bank Group Experience in the Subsector
9.        Previous assistance to the smallholder tree crops subsector has
included Credit 358-IND (North Sumatera Smallholder Development Project) for
$5 million and Credit 400-IND (Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project)
for $7.8 million. The full program of oil palm and rubber planting by small-
holder participants in the former project should be completed by the end of
1977 at the present rate of progress which is ahead of schedule. Costs
of the project have increased from $10 million estimated at appraisal to
about $26 million by project completion. Higher than anticipated output of,
and prices for, rubber and palm oil, and improved project development tech-
niques should more than compensate for the cost increases. The project's
return to the economy is likely to be higher than the 14.3% estimated at
appraisal.
10.       In the Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project, fewer than antic-
ipated credit applications have necessitated scaling down project targets from



- iv -
10,000 ha to 6,000 ha for smallholder tea and from 3,500 ha to 2,300 ha for
estate tea. The demand by farmers for technical assistance has been encour-
aging. The spread effects to nonproject smallholders have been excellent and
about 2,000 ha of tea have been rehabilitated or replanted using funds other
than project credit. Tea prices at farm level are well above appraisal esti-
mates which is part of the reason why farmers have been reluctant to apply for
long-term credit.
11.       Assistance for rehabilitation of rubber, tea, oil palm and sugar
plantations in public sector estates was given to certain priority estate
groups under IDA Credits 155, 194, 259, 319 and 405. Generally these projects
have been implemented successfully. Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agricultural
Estates Project), executed by PNP X, has progressed particularly rapidly with
plantings of rubber and oil palms in excellent condition and well ahead of
appraisal estimates. PNP X is also undertaking smallholder rubber development
under the Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
C. The Project
Project Concept
12.       The Government's tree crop subsector development objectives are
economic, social and regional with emphasis upon expansion of agricultural
output and productive employment in Sumatera, Sulawesi, and Kalimantan. To
achieve these objectives, the Government requires that public sector estates
with their technical and managerial expertise be utilized as nuclei to
promote smallholder development and that the smallholder settlement model be
replicable and be designed with provision for cost recovery of the on-farm
development costs. These objectives also require the development of specific
public sector estates to prepare them for a future nucleus estate role in
smallholder development. The proposed project is designed to help achieve
these objectives.
13.       The large number of very small farmers, rural landless and a growing
underemployed and unemployed rural labor force dictate that the cost to the
Government per settler family be reduced to a minimum in order to maximize
the number of beneficiary smallholders. The project has therefore been
formulated to utilize fully the opportunities for smallholder self-help and
to minimize Government expenditures on agricultural support, social services
and project infrastructure.
14.       The main constraints that have influenced the design of the
settlement components of the project have been managerial in relation to
planning and implementation of the physical aspects, technical and economic
in respect to food cropping on soils of only moderate fertility, adminis-
trative as concerns estate and settler financing arrangements and social with
regard to smallholder organization and training. The project formulation
provides for the alleviation of these constraints, most of which have been
evidenced in past smallholder projects in the subsector. Firstly, following



- vi -
Government policy, the public sector estates which have technical and mana-
gerial expertise in, and facilities for, tree crop development will provide
nucleus estate services to assist smallholder development as contractors for
rubber establishment, including land clearing, planting and maintenance during
the first three years and later as suppliers of services such as processing,
marketing and settler training in rubber husbandry. Secondly, the detailed
technology of rubber establishment on red/yellow podzolic soils is well known
and as the lands to be developed in smallholdings are adjacent to established
public sector rubber estates, rubber has been chosen for the farm model as
the cash crop. Close attention would also be given to food cropping activi-
ties with a view to finding a solution to the technical problems of sustained
food cropping practices on low fertility soils, especially in terms of mater-
ial and labor inputs to produce satisfactory yields. Thirdly, since past
problems with project financing have been caused by the use of multiple
sources of funds, each with different cumbersome procedures for allocation,
provision and release, proja2ct financing has been simplified into two separate
streams: budget funds from the Government for infrastructure and social ser-
vices, and the provision of credit by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for rubber
develupment. The administrative burden of maintaining separate settler
accounts and credit agreements has been minimized for rubber development by
providing the necessary funds directly to a public sector nucleus estate for
each settlement area and establishing a standard mortgage for each settler.
Lastly, the Director General of Estates, will have overall authority for pro-
ject implementation and settler organization in collaboration with the
Provincial Government.
15.       In addition to smallholder development the project aims to ration-
alize the operations of public sector estates, PNP X and PTP XI. For PNP X,
the main objective is to increase the economic efficiency of its opera-
tions by increasing its area of planted tree crops from 20,000 ha to about
35,000 ha. Although under Credit 319, PNP X intended to plant 15,400 ha of
oil palm in Lampung, for climatic and other agronomic reasons it was decided
that in general the area was more suitable for rubber development than palrn
oil. Consequently only 6,840 ha of palin oil was actually planted and the
rubber planting was increased from 4,000 ha to about 10,000 ha. Under the
proposed project PNP X would shift its palnm oil development to South Sumatera
which is better suited to its cultivation. Initially 5,000 ha of oil palm would
be planted, leading to an eventual area of 10,000 ha. This crop development
will diversify and strengthen the financial operations of the estate group.
By 1991, PNP X annual production is expected to be 42,000 tons of palm oil
and 30,000 tons of rubber. For PTP XI the main objectives are the rehabili-
tation of the company's processing facilities, the diversification of crops
so that the planted area of about 25,000 ha will be about evenly split between
rubber and coconuts, and the rationalization of the company by reducing the
number of estates cultivating uneconomic crops and consolidating hectarage in
order to have about 12 estates of economic size.
Project Description
16.       The main features of the proposed project are as follows.



- ATi. -
(a) New Land Settlement - Alue Iemerah, Aceh (an area of about 17,500 ha
located about 89 km from Langsa town in the province of Aceh, suit-
able for settlement of 3,500 families based on rubber development).
(i)  Construction in seven development schemes of seven central
villages and 14 satellite villages to accommodate a total of
3,500 settler houses including the provision of water supply
and sanitation facilities, and the equipping and staffing of
community and health facilities in all villages. These
facilities include a village office, primary school, health
post, mosque, community center and project office.
(ii)  Construction of 44 km of all-weather access roads, 84 km of
village roads, 14 km and 164 km of primary and secondary
rubber area roads respectively, and 105 km of farm roads and
tracks, to establish a low-cost feeder road system to and
within the settlement areas.
(iii)  Block planting and maintenance of 7,000 ha of rubber by PTP V
as nucleus estate.
(iv)  Distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops during the
first year of each phase of development within an overall
available area of 10,500 ha, including 700 ha of house gardens;
and the establishment and staffing of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services.
(b)  New Land Settlement - Tebenan, South Sumatera (an area of about
11,250 ha, approximately 75 km from Palembang, capital of the
province of South Sumatera, suitable for settlement of 2,250
families based on rubber development).
(i)  Construction in five development schemes of four central
villages, each with a village center and ten satellite villages
to accommodate a total of 2,250 settler houses, together with
provision of the same type of facilities as at Alue Iemerah.
(ii)  Construction of 24 km of all-weather access roads, 46 km of
village roads, 9 km and 100 km of primary and secondary rubber
area roads, respectively, and 70 km of farm roads and tracks.
(iii) Block planting and maintenance of 4,500 ha of rubber by PNP X
as nucleus estate.
(iv)  Distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops during the
first year of each phase of development within an overall
available area of 6,750 ha, including 450 ha of house gardens;
and the establishment and staffing of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services.
(c)  Estate Development of PNP X, Lampung and South Sumatera.
(i) Expansion of the planting program begun under Credit 319-
IND (Fourth Agricultural Estates Project) to include 4,100 ha



- vii -
of rubber in Lampung Province with related processing and
housing facilities for 1,800 families.
(ii)  Acquisition of 7,300 ha of new land in South Sumatera Province;
planting of 5,000 ha of oil palm.
(iii) Construction of a 30 ton ffb/hr palm oil mill and associated
water supply facilities, expansion of the Bekri palm oil mill
by 20 ton ffb/hr capacity, expansion of the Kedatan rubber
plant at Lampung by 20 ton/hr capacity, construction of a
3,000 ton palm oil bulking installation on the Musi River near
Palembang and of housing for 2,500 worker families.
(iv) Provision of consultancy and quality control services.
(d) Estate Development of PTP XI, West Java.
(i)  Replanting rubber on about 3,700 ha, rehabilitation of about
12,700 ha rubber; and for crop diversification, new planting
of about 4,200 ha coconuts.
(ii)  Construction near Bogor of a latex concentrate plant, consoli-
dation and expansion of existing rubber factory production
facilities and rationalization of estate operations through
closure of uneconomic field, processing and manufacturing
activities.
(iii)  Rehabilitation of roads, replacement of vehicles and equipment,
construction of an office and of staff and worker housing.
(iv)  Provision of consultancy and quality control services.
(e) Program Support for Smallholder Rubber Replanting and Nucleus
Estate Activities.
(i)  Technical assistance to the Directorate General of Estates in
planning, project preparation, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.
(ii)  Technical assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture Support
Staff for Agricultural Enterprises to improve marketing,
management, control and financial systems of the public
sector estates.
(iii) Technical assistance to the Estates Training Institute (LPP)
to expand its activities with emphasis on business management
and technical training.
Farm Plans and Settler Incomes
17.       In accordance with the Government's policy, the farm plan is
designed to provide the least investment cost to the Government, while



- viii -
providing settlers with a family income of about $800 at full development
after recovery of the cost of housing, rubber and subsistence crop develop-
ment. At full development, within a total farm size of 5 ha, each settler
family will have 2 ha of rubber block planted under the project, a 0.2 ha
house lot producing vegetables and fruit under intensive cultivation and
2.8 ha under rotational annual food cropping. A family income of $800 would
ensure sufficient net cash incomes to meet the minimum subsistence require-
ments of the smallholders ($420 p.a. per family of five), provide capital
($380 p.a.) for new planting of an additional one ha of tree crops (making an
eventual total area of three ha with tree crops) and would compare favorably
with the incomes of estate workers in the area estimated at $750 i4n 1990.
The investment cost per family in South Sumatera would be about $4,880 and in
Aceh about $4,925 (constant 1976 $). This amount includes the $500 estimated
cost of a settler house, with a concrete floor to achieve improved health
standards, and access to community water supply and sanitary facilities.
18.       Land for rubber planting in blocks of 1,000 ha would be cleared by
the n.cleus estate, which would also supply planting material and fertilizer
and e2mploy the settlers on contract as trainee rubber farmers to plant,
fertilize, weed and generally maintain the rubber for three years after field
planting. During this period, the nucleus estate would manage the rubber
farmers in groups in accordance with standard estate management practices so
as to reduce development costs to a minimum and obtain the advantages of
modern technology for the settler in terms of potentially high yielding areas
of rubber. Moreover, the risks associated with food cropping on low fertility
soils require that an assured income base be obtained for the settler from the
rubber component of the farm model. After this three year period, settlers
would be responsible for managing their individual rubber lots with the
nucleus estate rendering advice and acting as procurement agent for on-farm
inputs up to the production stage, and providing processing and marketing
services thereafter. The usual Government agricultural extension services
will be available to the settlers and agricultural cooperatives (BUUDs/KUDs)
would be established in the settlement areas. Inputs for food crop production
would be provided by the nucleus estates until the BIMAS program is extended
to the area.
19.       The participation of the settler in the development of his small-
holding will be enlisted and protected by the settlers receiving (within
six months) certificates of conditional ownership of the full five hectares.
If the settlers' performance in developing the rubber area is satisfactory,
at the end of three years the settlers would receive certificates of full
ownership (Hak Milik) which would, however, be retained by BRI as collateral
to secure the repayment of settler loan obligations (Section 3.11 of the Loan
Agreement). In accordance with Government preference, a flexible cost
recovery system would be adopted by BRI with settlers repayments being made
in kind and expressed in terms of fixed amounts of dry rubber collected by
the nucleus estate, but adjusted to reflect possible adverse or favorable
price changes on settlers' income. The quantity of rubber to be collected
would initially be based on an assumed loan amount of $5,108 and calculated
at 12% interest and repayable in 21 years including 6 years of grace. Since
the price received by smallholders on dry rubber delivered to the nucleus



- ix -
estates would be about 70% higher than that from other processors who rarely
pay more than 40% of the f.o.b. price, smallholders are likely to sell all of
their dry rubber production to the nucleus estates, eliminating excessive
processor and middlemen profits. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would cause the nucleus estates to pay settlers about 70%
of the f.o.b. price (Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
20.       The project would be fully implemented over a ten-year period at a
total estimated cost of $200 million. The Bank loan would assist with the
financing over the first five-year period. During this period, project costs
are estimated at $134 million, of which $67 million would be in foreign
exchange. The costs are based on 1976 prices. The provision for expected
price increases, based on estimated international and local price increases
has been computed at annual inflation rates as follows: (a) for civil works
at 16% for 1977, decreasing by 2% each year to 8% in 1981/82 and (b) for
equipment and services at 8% for 1977-79, and 7% for 1980-82. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been added to the costs of all items of investment
and to the number of man-days of management consultant services.
21.       The proposed Bank loan of $65 million would finance 48% of the total
cost for the first five years of project implementation which is about equiva-
lent to the foreign exchange cost of the project ($67 million). The remaining
$2 million would be financed by PTP XI from their own resources in 1980/81.
The local costs of the project of $67 million would be met during this period
partly by the Government ($42.5 million or 32% of total project costs) and
partly from the internally generated funds of PNP X and PTP XI ($26.5 million
or 20%) including the $2 million mentioned above. Since the implementation of
the project would not be completed until the tenth year, the Government and
the PNP/PTP would also meet the total remaining costs, in years six thruugh ten,
estimated at $66 million.
22.       The new settlement components of the project would be financed
partly from the proceeds of the Bank loan ($22 million) and partly from Gov-
ernment funds ($18.9 million). Under financing agreements between Bank
Indonesia, BRI and the nucleus estates, PTP V and PNP X, $35.5 million will
be passed on in the form of a loan ultimately to be repaid by smallholders.
Smallholder loans will carry a 12% interest rate and will be for a period of
15 years with repayment commencing in the seventh year after block rubber
planting. The loans would accumulate interest at the rate of 12% during the
grace period, except for the first three years after planting when interest
would be waived. Proceeds of the Bank loan ($20 million) would be on-lent
by the Government to PNP X at a 15% interest rate. Repayment would be in 24
equal annuities starting in 1985 with interest accumulated from 1981 to 1985.
The Government's contribution to PNP X ($15.8 million) would be in the form of
equity. The balance of project costs for PNP X's development ($9.0 million)
would be met from its internally generated funds. Bank loan funds ($14.6 mil-
lion) for PTP XI would be on-lent at 15%. Repayment would be in 14 equal
annuities starting in 1985. Interest would be accumulated from 1981 to 1985.
Government's contribution in the form of a loan to PTP XI ($3.5 million) and
PTP XI's own funds ($17.1 million) would finance the remainder of PTP XI's
development program.



- x -
23.       Retroactive financing ($1.2 million) for nursery development,
land clearing, rehabilitation and factory and transport equipment is re-
commended for expenditures incurred from December 1, 1976. Procurement
procedures followed by the Government for these items would be reviewed
to ensure that they are acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement
24.       Block planting and maintenance of 7,000 ha of rubber in Aceh
($14 million) and 4,500 ha in South Sumatera ($8.5 million) would be carried
out on the basis of Financing Agreements between Bank Indonesia, on behalf of
the Government of Indonesia, BRI and PTP V and PNP X as nucleus estates.
25.       For estate development, fertilizer and chemicals ($9.7 million),
agricultural and processing plant machinery, vehicles and equipment
($23.8 million) would be procured following international competitive bidding
procedures under Bank Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of the imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Con-
tracts of less than $50,000 would be let through prudent shopping after
obtaining at least three quotations, subject to an aggregate of $250,000 for
each PNP/PTP. Civil works contracts for construction of housing ($14.1 mil-
lion) would be awarded after domestic competitive bidding among prequalified
contractors following Government procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Consultant specialists and quality control services ($2.9 million)
specifically employed for PNP X and PTP XI, as well as other consultants and
technical services ($7.0 million), would be employed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Costs for internationally recruited consultants have
been estimated at $70,000 per man-year (including international travel, hous-
ing allowances and local transportation) on the basis of past experience
in Indonesia.
Disbursement
26.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against (a) 50% of the total
cost of civil works and rubber development in new settlement areas, 70% of
the cost of civil works for processing plants in PTP XI, 40% of the cost of
estate housing for PNP X and 70% for PTP XI, on the basis of certified con-
tractors' reports of expenditures; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange costs
of directly imported vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured equipment, 80% of the cost of processing plant equipment
and 65% of the cost of imported farm equipment procured locally, and 40% of
the cost of a few vehicles for project start-up procured locally after prudent
shopping; (c) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of agrochemicals; and (d) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of all consultant specialists, inspection and technical
services and 100% of the cost of local consultants. It is expected that dis-
bursments would be completed within five years of loan effectiveness. For
each of the new settlement components, the signing of a rubber development
contract between the Director General of Estates and the respective nucleus
estate and the signing of a Financing Agreement between the Government, BRI
and the respective nucleus estate are conditions of loan disbursement. For
each estate development component, the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the respective PNP/PTP, the appointment of three
technical assistance specialists for PNP X and of two operational assistants,



- xi -
one specialist and independent auditors for PTP XI, would be conditions of
loan disbursement (Schedule I, para. 4 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation, Organization and Management
27.       The project would be implemented by existing central and provincial
Government agencies.  Overall responsibility for implementation, monitoring
arn 2valuation of the two new settlement components of the project would rest
wit'. ehe Director General of Estates in Jakarta.  The Provincial Government
would implement those activities (area infrastructure programs) for which
funds are provided through the Provincial Government budget. The latter
action represents a delegation of much more responsibility to the Provincial
rovernment than in previous projects and is consistent with the Government
objective of involving Provincial Governments in area development.
28.       The Director General of Estates would have primary responsibility
for project and village master planning, preparation of annual work programs,
advice to the Provincial Government on settler recruitment, settler agree-
ments, approval of project budgets, coordination of project financing arrange-
ments and the rubber development by the nucleus estates (work programs,
budgets, expenditures, physical progress, etc.). The Director General of
Estates would be represented at the project site by a Project Manager respon-
sible to the Director General for preparation of action programs and budgets,
supervision and coordination of all project activities undertaken by nucleus
estates and the Provincial Coordinating Committees. The Chief Executives of
the committees would be the Chairmen of the Provincial Development Planning
Agencies (BAPPEDA). The main activities of the Provincial Government would be
providing village infrastructure, main access and village roads, health,
educational and community facilities, determining food cropping programs;
determining the rubber price to be paid by the nucleus estate processor to
the settlers; and advising on settler selection criteria. Settlers will be
selected on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank which give priority to
landless farmers in the project vicinity, but when these have been acommodated
will be extended to transmigrants. Settlers must have some farm experience,
be married, between the ages of 20 and 40 years, in good health, with annual
incomes of less than Rp 120,000. Technical assistance would be provided under
the project to assist the Director General of Estates for a period of three
years with project implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Assurances were
given during negotiations that the Bank would be consulted upon the selection
of these specialists and that their appointments would be made by December 31,
1977, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 (i) of the
Loan Agreement). The Government has appointed a project manager experienced
in smallholder agriculture for each of the settlement areas.
29.       The nucleus estates, PNP X and PTP V, would have full authority to
manage the resources, machinery, material inputs, labor and finance required
to develop and hand over to the settler potentially high yielding areas of
three-yeas old rubber.  They would be responsible for clearing of prospective
rubber land, rubber planting and maintenance, settler training, construction
of rubber area roads and settler housing, as well as procurement and applica-
tion of inputs during the period of rubber immaturity, followed by the pro-
vision of extension, processing and marketing services during the production
period. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government



- xii -
that nucleus estates and the Director General of Estates would enter into
contracts acceptable to the Bank for the provision of the above services
(Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement).
30.       BRI would channel funds for rubber development to the nucleus
estates and would also provide short-term credit to settlers for food cropping
through the BIMAS program. During the period of cost recovery by the nucleus
estate rubber processors, BRI as a handling bank would maintain settler loan
accounts on behalf of the Government. The Government would bear all risks in
the credit delivery and cost recovery system. Assurances were received from
the Government that arrangements to extend the BIMAS program to the settlers
in Alue Iemerah and Tebenan would be made by June 30, 1978 and that an
adequate number of BRI mobile units would be deployed to serve the villages with
commencement of the BIMAS program (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
31.       The executive management of PNP X and the boards of supervisors
and mnnagement of PTP XI, assisted by technical assistance specialists, would
be r(_sponsible for the execution of the estate development components of the
project. Assurances were received from the Government that the functions of
support staff in the Ministry of Agriculture would continue to be adequately
carried out (Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement). The Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff would assist the Minister in guiding, monitoring and evaluating
the operations of the public sector estates. The Support Staff would be
assisted by six specialists in estate operations for three years and by a
firm of consultants to monitor PNP X and PTP XI estates up to December 31,
1981. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the specialists
and firm of consultants would be acceptable to the Bank and that they would
be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 (ii)
of the Loan Agreement).
Market Aspects
32.       The short-term price outlook for natural rubber appears to be quite
favorable with market prices projected to increase sharply above 1976 levels
and continued strong growth in demand expected to about 1980. In the 1980s,
in view of the relatively good demand outlook, the price prospects of natural
rubber appear to be favorable.
33.       The Government considers the expansion of the planted area under
oil palm and coconut to be an essential part of its national agricultural
policy to achieve self-sufficiency in the production of edible oils. Total
production of vegetable oils is expected to increase from about 1.1 million
tons in 1976 to 2.1 million tons by 1990 (consisting of about 0.9 million
tons of coconut oil and 1.2 million tons of palm oil). The domestic demand
for vegetable oils is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 5.6%
from 770,000 tons in 1976 to 1.6 million tons in 1990. Exports during the
same period are expected to increase from 400,000 tons to 500,000 tons. To
increase the domestic availability of edible palm oil the Government is
expanding its palm oil fractionating facilities. At present Indonesia
exports approximately 85% of its palm oil output (local consumption being in
the form of soap, detergents, and edible fat products). However, this
percentage is expected to decrease because fractionated palm oil will be
available at substantially lower prices than coconut oil. Even with the



- xiii -
moderate program of expanded planting and processing of palm oil now projected
Indonesia's exports of oils and fats are expected to remain at about 2% of
the total world exports, and this share is expected to decline.
Financial and Economic Analysis
34.       The primary benefit resulting from the project settlement components
would be the increased net incomes of 5,750 settler families at Aceh and South
Sumatera from their present level of net income, about $250, to about $400 per
family by year three and to about $800 by year 10. The increase in the income
of these families in the rural target population represents a per capita
increase from $50 to about $160 in 1990. The project would help to create
about 11,500 permanent jobs among the rural target population, at the rate of
two jobs on each smallholding at a cost of about $2,450 per job compared with
$5,800 in small industry and $15,500 in medium to large industry. In addition,
4,000 casual laborers would be employed in rubber development for 4-6 months
each year.
35.       Through project estate development, the net annual income of PNP X
is estimated to increase from its present level of $79,500 to $3.85 million
by 1980, while benefits to the Government from increased corporation and
other taxes would amount to $265 million during the life of the project, and
from dividends to total $60.2 million. At full development in 1985, PTP XI's
operating surpluses from rubber are estimated to amount to $23.1 million. The
project would help stabilize PTP XI financially with net profits estimated at
$2.7 million by 1979, and at $26.4 million in 1998 at full development. The
Government would benefit from increased corporation taxes amounting to
$335 million during the life of the project and dividends estimated at $221.7
million.
36.       New permanent jobs created in PNP X and PTP XI would be about 5,000.
The expansion and rehabilitation programs would provide continued employment
for the 12,800 existing laborers at PNP X and 15,800 laborers presently
employed at PTP XI. The total cost of the estate project component, about
$78 million, would help maintain employment for about 33,600 people (average cost
US $2,300/job).
37.       The economic rate of return for each new settlement component is
estimated at 15% at a settlement cost per family of $4,925 at Aceh and $4,882
at South Sumatera, and a total cost for each settlement of $15.32 million and
$10.24 million, respectively. Sensitivity analysis indicates that this rate
of return would increase to 17% if the shadow wage rate for farm labor is
reduced by 50%. The economic rate of return for PNP X is estimated at 35%,
and for PTP XI at 41% on the basis of total investment costs of $30.56
million and $24.04 million, respectively. The higher rate of return for
estate development reflects the sunk costs involved with rehabilitation of
estates. The estimated overall economic rate of return for the project is
30%. In the economic analysis a shadow wage rate equal to about 50% of the
actual wage paid to estate laborers has been included. A standard conver-
sion factor has been included with foreign exchange valued at 125% of the
official exchange rate.
38. These rates of return do not take account of the nonquantified benefits
in the settlement areas, which include improvement of housing, health, sani-
tation and family planning services, settler nutrition and the multiplier



- xiv -
effects on the regional economy of capital formation in the area and increased
levels of consumption expenditure. As the project aims at replicability
for other nucleus estate and settlement projects, settlement costs would be
closely monitored throughout the project period with a view to cost reduction,
physical or technical changes which would improve the Government's ability to
develop a more cost-effective approach for improving the livelihood of 60% of
the rural population who are in the poverty target group. In the case of the
estate development components, the PNP/PTPs would benefit by diversification
of their crop regime, which would make them less vulnerable to price fluctua-
tions and more financially secure to continue their own expansion or their
nucleus estates role.
Conclusions, Major Loan Conditions and Recommendations
39.       Although the project would be the first to utilize the nucleus
estate approach for tree crop development and smallholder settlement, project
risks of a technical and economic nature are not expected to be unusual.
The project would rely heavily on the management and technical capabilities
of the nucleus estates for the planning and implementation of rubber develop-
ment, thereby reducing risks to rubber yields and smallholder benefits.
However, approaches to sustained annual food cropping on the prevailing
moderately fertile soils have yet to be more fully developed; resultant risks
could be increased due to settler inexperience. Therefore, the farm model
has been designed to secure more assured benefits from rubber and conserva-
tive yield estimates have been used for food cropping, representing only 20%
of farm income at full development. Assuming efficient project management
and a good settler response, known techniques are sufficient to obtain the
projected food crop yields.
40.       Some of the organizational and financial arrangements to be employed
in the project are innovative and untested. Settler cost recovery in kind
has not been attempted before in Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia or by
the BRI. Given the ability of settlers to repay their loans and a built-in
price incentive to encourage them to sell to the nucleus estate, the element
of risk derives from the increased responsibility assigned to the nucleus
estates as collection agents. The Government, through the Director General
of Estates, would ensure collection, proper account keeping and timely
transfer of funds collected by the nucleus estates to BRI. The development
role of the nucleus estates in the implementation of smallholder settlements
and the management capability of the Provincial Government's staff to carry
out significant responsibilities in such a project are untested. However,
the tasks to be performed under the project have been successfully performed
by estates in the context of their own expansion and maintenance of estate
planting and infrastructure and by the Provincial Government in the context
of ongoing rural works programs.
41.       The Government's subsector development objectives are economic,
social and regional with emphasis on expansion of agricultural output and
productive employment in Sumatera, Sulawesi, and Kalimantan. The project
would contribute to the realization of economic objectives by (a) increasing
the efficiency of tree crop agriculture through higher yields and lower unit



- xv -
costs of production; (b) increasing production of rubber for export, leading
to enhanced foreign exchange earnings; and (c) increasing the supply of palm
oil and coconuts for local processing in the rapidly expanding industrial and
urban areas.
42.       Socially, the project would generate an increase in employment at
a relatively low cost and would lead to an improvement in incomes, and living
standards of the rural poor. Regional needs would be served through the
development of an underutilized and sparsely populated land area through
improved roads, the creation of rural growth centers and agricultural develop-
ment under a stable farming system. The project would also help strengthen a
number of important Central and Provincial Government institutions.






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
I. THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
A. The Sector
1.01      Agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy, accounts
for 43% of the gross domestic product (GDP) of Indonesia, nearly two-thirds of
employment and close to 80% of non-oil exports. In 1973, food crops (principally
rice, but also a number of upland crops such as cassava, corn, soybeans,fruits
and vegetables) accounted for 65% of the total agricultural output. Plantation
cropF (including production by smallholders) such as rubber, oil palm and
coconuts account for 6% to 8% of total agricultural GDP. During the five-year
period 1968-73, agricultural output grew at a rate of about 4.2% annually, with
rice and sugar showing the highest gains in both output and yield.
1.02      Indonesia has a dual agricultural structure, consisting of 12-13 mil-
lion smallholders cultivating some 13 million ha and about 1,300 large estates
covering about 1.7 million ha./l Wlith the exception of oil palms smallholders
dominate in the production of all subsistence and cash crops. The 1973 Census of
Agriculture indicated that 70% of all farms had less than 1 ha of land.
1.03      The major emphasis of the First Five-Year Plan, (1969-74), was on
rehabilitation of neglected infrastructure, especially in irrigation and trans-
port, and on the expansion of production in agriculture for both the domestic and
foreign market. The most important single objective was rice production: an
increase of 47% was to be achieved in five years, largely through a major expan-
sion of the existing schemes for the supply of current inputs and credit to
farmers (BIMAS/INMAS). A good deal of progress was made in the rehabilitation
and the expansion of infrastructure including transport, power, communications
and irrigation, but because of the previous deterioration of the facilities and
the rapid expansion of output required, the services remain generally inadequate
to meet the demands of a growing economy. In addition to economic objectives,
the Second Five-Year Plan (1974-79) strongly emphasizes the creation of employ-
ment opportunities and improvement of living standards for the broad masses of
the people, focusing on social development, considerations of equitable income
distribution, regional growth, education and employment.
1.04      Any program designed to contribute to these broad objectives of the
Second Five Year Plan must involve the agricultural sector. The major problems
of the sector relate to overpopulation in Java, substantial underemployment,
/1 Agricultural Sector Survey, April 10, 1974. The number of farms and
area are understated since holdings smaller than 0.1 ha were excluded.



uneconomic farms, low levels of productivity and a scarcity, relative to
requirements, of large areas of fertile soil. On Java, approximately 70% of
the Indonesian population live on about 7% of the land area. Furthermore,
about 70% of all agricultural employment occurs on the islands of Java,
Madura and Bali. Problems arising from this concentration of population are
intensified by the natural increase in population of some 3 million persons
per year. The Government plans to alleviate these problems through intensi-
fication of agricultural operations and increase in production. In the
Other Islands, mainly Sumatera, Kalimantan and Sulawesi, the approach would
bc to balance the utilization of available resources for both improvement of
existing agriculture and for development of large new areas of unutilised
land. It is estimated that about 40 million hectares of new land in the
Other Islands are cultivable, approximately four times the existing area
under cultivation in these islands. However, some 85% of this cultivable
land is upland soil of low to moderate fertility. The major constraint to
new land development in the Other Islands is currently the lack of suitable
agricultural options on these soils. On the basis of presently proven
technology, large areas of uncultivated land have only limited potential for
food crop production and for any broad scale new land development program.
Therefore, present knowledge would largely limit development of these areas
to the cultivation of tree crops requiring substantial capital investment.
This latter option is suitable to the Indonesian estate industry, but where
smallholder development is concerned, a mixed farming system balancing both
food crop and tree crop production is desirable. However, this preferred
option must await the results of research and pilot projects and for the near
future, other than on land of adequate fertility new land development in upland
areas will utilize tree crops as the major productive component. The project
under appraisal would follow this latter form of development and would contri-
bute to the settlement of the substantial landless or near landless local rural
population /1 in Sumatera while intensifying existing agricultural production.
B. The Subsector
The Natural Resource Base
1.05      The several subprojects in the project under appraisal would be
located mainly in Sumatera. One subproject would be in West Java (para
2.17). Monsoons are a dominant characteristic of the climate of these areas
ensuring adequate rainfall (within the range 2,000-4,000 mm) for a wide range
of tree crops, throughout the year. Temperatures at low altitudes can vary
from a minimum of about 22 0C to a maximum of about 320C.
1.06      Approximately one third of the island of Sumatera comprises
mountainous land mainly found in the Bukit Barisan range which runs almost
the length of the western side of the island. The remainder consists of
a large continguous central zone of almost flat to hilly lands at eleva-
tions below 200 meters, situated immediately east of the Bukit Barisan range
/1 Settlers coming from areas within 100 mile radius of project area.



and of extensive swamp lands which fringe the eastern coast. Both these
latter zones are mainly covered witl forest, although considerable areas of
poor alang alang /1 grassland, a consequence of shifting cultivation, exist.
The subproject areas under appraisal are situated in the central zone which
covers almost 35% of the island, equivalent to almost 18 million ha. Broadly
the soils in this zone are categorized as red-yellow podsolics, which is
sufficient to indicate that the soils are similar to those extensively devoted
to tree crop agriculture in other humid tropical zones and that similar devel-
opments should be possible within these zones. This zone therefore presents
great potential for tree crop development. Unfortunately these soils usually
have technical constraints which limit their use for sustained food crop
production (para. 2.06).
Structure of Agricultural Production
1.07      Crop Production.  Tree crops provide the major agricultural export
produce of Indonesia, presently accounting for about US$250 million annually in
foreign exchange earnings. Smallholder contribution to GDP in tree crops is
5.4% while the estate industry accounts for 2.1%. In the 1974 IBRD Agricul-
tural Sector Survey the total area of the major tree crops, rubber, coconuts,
coffee, oil palms, tea and cloves in Indonesia was estimated to be about
4.5 million ha, mainly comprising low yielding smallholdings. Rubber and
coconuts, with 2.0 million and 1.75 million ha respectively occupy about 80%
of this area. Recent tree crop production growth rates have been 10% per
annum for palm oil, 3.3% for rubber and 1.9% for copra. Increase in the area
of new tree crop planting has been less than 2.5% per annum of the planted
areas or about 100,000 ha. This rate of increase has not fulfilled the require-
ment of an adequate replacement program estimated at about 190,000 ha of new
tree crop plantings per annum. In order to sustain agricultural output of the
main tree crops at present levels, the Indonesian new planting/ replanting
program of rubber should be about 100,000 ha/annum and of coconuts, 50,000 ha.
1.08      The proposed project is focussed upon two of the main components
of the tree crop industry, the Sumateran smallholder rubber industry and the
public sector estates. The area producing rubber in Sumatera is about 1.6
million ha of which smallholder rubber amounts to about 1.3 million ha. The
public sector estates extend to about 650,000 ha including 130,000 ha pine
trees (merkusii) plantations.
1.09      Although smallholders have tree crops on four times the area of
estates, total value of production is only 2.5 times higher than the value
for estates. The poor productivity of smallholders in relation to public
sector estates is evidenced in comparison of their average yields. In the
1974 IBRD Agricultural Sector Survey national average yields of dry rubber
were estimated at 400 kg/ha and of copra 800 kg/ha. Public sector estate
yields of rubber were much larger with an average of 700 kg/ha and a range
between estate groups of 500-1,300 kg/ha.
/1 Imperata cylindrica, lalang grass - a pernicious weed of cultivated
areas.



- 4 -
1.10      Indonesian rubber smallholders represent a low income group with
few means for improvement. It has been estimated that in Sumatera, 700,000
families out of approximately one million rubber smallholders have only
about one ha rubber and receive a maximum net cash income from rubber of
US$100 per annum./l Other sources of income include occasional off-farm
emnloyment and income from food cropping, raising average net family incomes
to US$150 to US$250 per annum. It is estimated that over 90% of the total
Sumateran rubber smallholders have incomes less than adequate for minimum
nutritional standards. A large proportion of their trees are old, low
yielding and rapidly reaching the end of their economic life. These small-
holders, because of their excessively small holdings cannot afford to
replant and forego income during the immature phase of replanted trees. Nor
can they afford to plant new rubber. Under present agricultural credit
arrangements, these smallholders do not have access to the long-term
finance required for tree crops.
1.11      In contrast to the large public sector estates which generally
employ the most advanced technology and to padi farmers, cultivation methods
used by tree crop smallholders are less developed. Crop establishment is
thro:gh the traditional slash and burn technique, planting material is
generally low yielding, fertilizer is not used and tree maintenance is
almost completely neglected. In the case of rubber, tapping techniques are
so intensive that tree exhaustion ensues and labor productivity is very low.
Processing methods are generally primitive and marketing facilities unsatisfactory.
1.12      The present Sumateran population of 20 million, which it is
estimated will double by the end of this century includes about one million
farmers/families or four to five million people currently sustained at a low
level by the smallholder rubber industry. It is clearly essential that any
rehabilitation and expansion program for the rubber industry emphasizes a
strategy for creating productive employment for those now unemployed and
underemployed.
Agricultural Institutions
1.13      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  The MOA is comprised of five
Directorates General (Estates, Fisheries, Food Crops, Forestry and Livestock).
The Directorate General of Estates (DGE) /2 within the MOA has the regulatory
responsibility for all privately owned estates, local or foreign, and small
holdings involving tree crops and industrial crops, which includes rubber, coconuts,
oil palms, coffee, tea, cacao, tobacco, cloves, pepper, etc. These responsibil-
ities are shared within three Directorates within the DGE in Jakarta; planning,
production and means of operation. Extension services to tree crop smallholders
are the responsibility of the DGE and the Provincial Smallholder Estates Service,
responsible to the Provincial Governor. The DGE has technical responsibility
for the work of this Smallholder Estates Service (Dinas Perkebunan Daerah) in
each province. Neither the DGE nor the Smallholder Estates Service have had
adequate funds. In the current Second Five Year Plan, the DGE has planned to
initiate some 350 development projects with smallholder coconuts, rubber, coffee,
/1 Source: Agricultural Employment Creation and Smallholder Rubber Produc-
tion in Sumatera - E.S. Clayton, FAO/UNiDP, 1975.
/2 In Indonesia the term estates comprises large estates and smallholdings
planted with tree crops.



- 5 -
cloves and pepper. To date the DGE has been able to commence implementation
of about one-third of this program which has been delayed by lack of staff
experienced in project preparation. Finance, facilities, and manpower are small
in relation to the size of the task and generally the services provided are
inadequate. The DGE is responsible for direction of the implementation of
IDA financed rubber and tea smallholder projects (IDA Credits 358 and 400-IND).
These projects have been successful in their standards of planting and have shown
excellent intercropping results. The projects suffered initially, however,
because of the lack of timely provision of finance. Within the MOA, the Agency
for Research and Development (ARD) has recently become responsible for rubber
research. Under Loan 1179-IND, rubber research will be concentrated in a new
Rubber Research Center in North Sumatera.
1.14      Public Sector Estates.  The Indonesian Estate Industry is dominated
by the public sector estates comprising 28 estate groups located mainly in
northern Sumatera and in Java with over 500,000 ha of plantation crops
excluding pine trees. Organization of the Government owned estates system
is shown in Chart 1. In 1968 the estates were reorganized into 28 groups of
PNPs /1 based on location, crop, and size. These PNP groups were responsible
to a Special Board for the Affairs of the State-Owned Estates (the BKU)
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture with the Director General of Estates
as chief executive. It is now Government policy that PNPs be converted into
PTPs which are limited liability companies operating under the Indonesian
Commercial Code. The majority of PNPs have now been converted. Organization
of a Government owned estate group is shown in Chart 2. In March 1976, the
BKU was dissolved by Ministerial Decree and a temporary Support Staff estab-
lished to assist the Minister in supervision of the PNP/PTPs. Technical
assistance to the Support Staff is described in para. 3.30. This vast estate
enterprise employs almost 500,000 resident and seasonal staff and labor and it
is estimated that the welfare of about 3 million people is immediately dependent
on this estates system. Assistance for the rehabilitation of these estate
areas which became seriously debilitated during the political difficulties of
the early and mid-sixties was given to certain estate groups under IDA Credits
155, 194, 259, 319 and 405. Generally these projects have been successfully
implemented.
1.15      The BIMAS Program.  The BIMAS program is a national program to
raise food crop production and farm income by supplying credit and cash
inputs at subsidized prices, mainly to rice farmers, but also to growers of
maize, sorghum, soybean, groundnut, green beans and cassava. The program is
implemented by the Director General of Food Crops (also MOA) as Secretary and
by Bank Rakyat Indonesia, the State Rural Bank. Wherever facilities have
been established, BIMAS program inputs would be available to rubber small-
holders for their food crop areas.
/1 A Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan (PNP) is a State Owned Estate Enterprise.
The PNPs were classified as PNP I - PNP XXVIII.



1.16      Bank Rakyat Indonesia.  BRI is the oldest rural bank in Indonesia.
Its main function is to assist the government with implementation of agricul-
tural development policies and programs. BRI provides short term credit to
agricultural co-operatives, farmers, fishermen and other agricultural enter-
prises. It participates in administration of the BIMAS program (para 1.15)
through village units. When fully established, village units consist of a
BRI credit office, a farmers co-operative (BUUD/KUD) and at least one field
extension officer per 600-1,000 ha of rice land and 1,500 farm families. The
BUUD/KUD co-operative, responsible to the Ministry of Labor, Co-operatives
and Transmigration, arranges for input supply and purchase of rice from farmers.
With the exception of the Tea Smallholder and Private Estates Project (Credit
400-IND), BRI has had very little involvement in provision of the long term
credit facilities necessary in tree crop financing. The proposed Bank-assisted
Rural Credit Project would assist BRI with finance to expand their credit opera-
tions including a new role for BRI in long-term credit for tree crop agriculture.
Until such time as BRI is fully capable of tree crop credit operations BRI has
indicated that a simplified credit delivery system of administering settler
rubber loans channelled through the nucleus estate contractor with standardized
loan amounts would be preferable.
1.17      Other Institutions Involved in the Rubber Industry   The Ministry of
Trade (MOT) has responsibility for policies concerning product specification,
product quality control and smallholder marketing whereas the Ministry of
Industry is responsible for policy, conerning processing techniques and pro-
cessor licensing. /1 Several associations of producers and processors also
exist and Indonesia is a member of various international rubber organizations.
However, there is no single authoritative body such as a national Rubber
Board, representing the interests of the rubber industry (second only to
Malaysia in total production of natural rubber) for promoting the necessary
further development of the industry. There is also no national rubber replanting
scheme.
Government Intervention in the Subsector
1.18      GOI intervenes in the subsector in four broad categories of actions:
The GOI provides national support services of a research, extension and regulatory
nature. The impact of these services is not large as the means to execute well
planned programs on a sufficient scale is lacking. The GOI marketing policies
are designed to raise the quality of the exported product. The impact of market-
ing policies on smallholder production has been minimal because of low product
quality, inadequate marketing arrangements for smallholders and poor communica-
tions. Smallholders generally receive only 30-40% of the f.o.b. price. GOI
intervention includes taxation involving several crop, export, and land taxes on
rubber production which amounts to about 17% of the f.o.b. value. Virtually none
of the taxes collected however, are returned to the industry for financing rubber
development. The GOI's role in the subsector also includes implementation of a
number of locally and externally financed area intensive projects for rehabilita-
tion/replanting in smallholder areas. The public sector estates are important
/1 Under Presidential Decree No. 85, 1971.



-7 -
in the subsector but although worthwhile, the continuing rehabilitation of their
existing areas will not bring a significant increase in national production.
This will only be achieved by major GOI intervention into new planting and
replanting in smallholder areas and new estates. However, ongoing rubber pro-
jects and projects under preparation fall far short of this requirement and
including the smallholder subprojects in this appraisal encompass only about
120,000 ha spread over the next 5-6 years.
Approaches to Tree Crop Development
1.19      A tree crop program for Sumatera, relevant to the needs of the situa-
tion, would be enormous in scale when related both to past programs and to
programs implemented in other countries. Apart from the problem of scale,
operating conditions would be diverse in terms of location, nature and size of
land area for development, the structure of smallholder production, the level of
infrastructure and the availability of management and technical services.
GOI policy concerning the balance to be achieved between new land develop-
ment and improvement of existing tree crop areas is not well defined. Nor is
there a well formulated policy concerning the direction of new land development
(the alternatives include smallholder development under various organizational
arrangements and with varying degrees of assistance from public or private
sector estate development). GOI objectives in relation to new smallholdings are:
(a) maximization of job creation at minimum cost;
(b) provision of sufficient assistance to provide family incomes comparable
with surrounding areas, coupled with opportunity for further significant
income growth through smallholders/settlers own efforts;
(c) fullest possible utilization of farm family labor.
Clearly several approaches could be used to reach these objectives. GOI has
selected nucleus estates as one of the main approaches to implementation of
new land settlement for smallholder tree crops. The project would employ
this approach in two large areas in Sumatera. Public sector nucleus estates
would provide an appropriate range of services to smallholders settled in
their vicinity. These services would include provision of planting material,
land clearing and planting, procurement of fertilizer, crop transport, processing
and marketing, and management and technical services.
II. PURPOSE, PRIORITY AND FORMULATION OF PROJECT
A. Project Requirements and Constraints
2.01      Basic Considerations
The Bank has been requested by GOI to assist in developing a small-
holder tree crop development program involving both large-scale settlement of new
land and assistance to existing smallholders. GOI requires that:



- 8 -
(a) public sector estates with their technical and managerial
expertise be utilized as nuclei to promote smallholder
development;
(b) the settlement model be replicable; and
(c) the settlement model be designed with allowance for cost
recovery of the on-farm development costs.
Assistance has also been requested by GOI for continued public sector
estate development with the view to development of specific estates for a
future nucleus estate role for smallholder development.
2.02      In Indonesia, with large numbers of very small farmers, rural landless
and a growing underemployed and unemployed rural labor force, it is essential
that the cost per settler family in projects be reduced to a mimimum in order
to maximize the number of beneficiaries. Cost per beneficiary will depend
upon factors such as size of holding, income targets, immature period
of tree crops, technical requirements of tree crops, feasibility of food
cropping programs and supplementary sources of income. Project costs have
been examined in relation to these factors and in terms of maximising the
present opportunities for settler/smallholder self-help, and minimizing to the
extent practicable, government expenditure on agricultural support, social
services and infrastructure. In the settlement project components, field
costs should be minimized by use of nucleus estates as tree crop development
agents and suppliers of essential services as compared with setting up compre-
hensive support services for this purpose.
Project Constraints - Settlement Components
2.03      The main constraints are managerial in relation to planning and
implementation of physical aspects, technical and economic in respect to food
cropping on soils of only moderate fertility, administrative as concerns
project and settler financing arrangements, social with regard to smallholder
protection, training, development and achievement.
2.04     M4anagement Constraints.  It is GOI policy that the PNP/PTPs which
are commercially viable and have expertise in and facilities for tree crop
development and exploitation, should provide appropriate "nucleus estate"
services to assist smallholder development, wherever feasible. Accordingly,
project formulation for the settlement subprojects provides for the use of
PNPs V and X as nucleus estates for rubber establishment and maintenance and
later as suppliers of services such as processing and marketing. The nucleus
estate responsibilities, however, are deliberately restricted in scope
to those functions in which they have expertise and which would not interfere
with their normal commercial operations. Given this restriction in scope and
adequate authority in the development period, Government estate enterprises
are capable of implementing a substantial settlement tree crop program in a
cost effective manner. In view of settler inexperience in recommended technical
practices, the importance of sufficient authority to ensure efficient technical
management during the immature rubber period cannot be over-emphasized. Ample
evidence exists that the financial return on rubber is very responsive to the



-9-
standard of technical management at all periods of the life cycle. However,
the immature period during which future yield potential is irreversibly
determined is the most critical period. For this reason, project design
requires that the nucleus estate has full authority over settler-trainees
during the first three years of rubber life. This is regarded as the minimum
feasible period of control by the nucleus estate, during which the settler-
trainee would receive essential on the job training and experience the advan-
tages of group field activities.
2.05      Technical Constraints.  The red/yellow podsolic soils are of only
low to moderate fertility even when newly cultivated following jungle clearing.
They are fairly erodable and in the conditions of high rainfall which exist,
undergo continual leaching and weathering. In the project settlement areas,
there have been decades of shifting cultivation, resulting in low levels of
plant nutrients and there is a major weed problem in the form of alang alang
grass. This pernicious weed is able to rapidly invade and completely dominate
crops and has been a major factor in the failure of a large number of development
projects in Southeast Asia. It can only be kept under control by systematic and
regular weeding.
2.06      The detailed technology of rubber establishment on the red/yellow
podsolic soil group is well known and as the areas to be developed are adjacent
to established rubber estates, rubber is the obvious crop to be chosen for the
farm model. In the project, however, full attention would also be given to food
cropping activities. Input requirements and production levels of rubber can be
predicted with considerable confidence. By contrast there is inadequate depth
of knowledge of the technology required to sustain continuous or even rotational
food cropping on these soils, particularly with satisfactory levels of yield.
In the absence of this technology, small farmers have developed the slash and
burn system involved in the practice of shifting cultivation. The regenerated
bush fallow developed under this system recycles nutrients from the lower soil
levels and these are incorporated in the top soil. With this relatively stable
agricultural system, which has not yet been bettered, except in small scale
experiments, farmers have traditionally been able to grow food crops albeit with
low yields and low labor inputs. Although there is inadequate depth of technical
knowledge of food crop cultivation practices, the main ingredients of the tech-
nical package are known in qualitative terms - high yielding seeds, fertilizer,
weed control, pest and disease control, soil conservation, rotational cropping
with a leguminous fallow. But in quantitative terms, the data base is small on
such matters as types, quantities, frequencies of application and placement
of the vital inputs, fertilizer and pesticides. There is also inadequate
knowledge of the pest and disease problems which will arise under large scale
food cropping conditions or of the stability of the rotational cropping systems
which may be devised. However, assuming efficient project management and good
settler response, it is judged that known techniques are sufficient to obtain
the yield levels which have been projected (para. 6.18). Experience in the
project will indicate the technical feasibility of the proposed farming system
and its economics in terms of material and labor inputs. During the project,
close liaison will be maintained with the Bank's first Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND), in which food cropping on similar soil is
given high priority. It is anticipated that improved techniques will be developed,



- 10 -
which will then be translated into more profitable farming systems. If food
cropping is successful in provision of food and cash requirements during the
non-productive period of tree growth, the cost of land settlement may be con-
siderably reduced in future projects.
2.07      Financing Constraints.  Some problems have arisen with project and
settler financing arrangements in Bank financed smallholder tree crop projects
in Indonesia (Credits 358-IND and 400-IND). The problems with project
financing relate to a multiplicity of sources of funds, each with differing
and cumbersome procedures concerning the allocation, provision and release of
these funds. Project design has therefore required that financing be simpli-
fied by separation of finance into two main streams, the BRI credit stream
for development of rubber areas and the GOI budget stream for infrastructure
and social services. Settler financing difficulties concern the administra-
tive load of maintaining settler accounts and the delay (in Credit 358) in
drawing up written agreements for settler participation. These latter diffi-
culties are the outcome of the heavy administrative burden already placed
upon BRI, including the BIMAS program, and the natural reluctance of this
organization to be involved in long term credit operations of this nature,
other than on a simplified basis. Project design, therefore, involved
minimising credit administration for tree crop operations through financing a
single entity (public sector nucleus estates) and establishing a standard
mortgage for each settler.
2.08      A basic project consideration has been the problem of transition of
potential settlers, presently tied by the force of circumstances to backward
agricultural practices, to progressive farmers. In order to facilitate the
process of social and economic change for settler families, an environment
should be created in which farm families receive fair treatment in respect of
input costs, prices for produce, and continuous training in farm management.
Accordingly, the DGE would be given authority overall for project implementation
and settler protection with the assistance of the Provincial Government.
B. Project Objectives
2.09      The project components are described in detail in para. 3.02.
2.10      GOI tree crop subsector development objectives are economic, social,
and regional with emphasis upon expansion of agricultural output and productive
work creation in the Other Islands. The economic objectives to which the project
would contribute would be to (i) increase the efficiency of tree crop agriculture
by raising yields and lowering unit costs of production; (ii) increase produc-
tion of rubber, coconuts, and oil palms leading to increased exports and foreign
exchange earnings; (iii) increase the supply of raw materials for local process-
ing in the rapidly expanding industrial and urban areas of Java and Sumatera and
thereby create secondary employment.
2.11      Socially the project would generate an increase in employment at
relatively low cost and would lead to an improvement in rural incomes of the
landless or near landless poor. The project would provide low cost health
delivery systems (Puskesmas) including malaria control, improved water supply



and sanitation, family planning and basic health services for about 30,000
people. Primary and secondary education facilities would be provided for
children of 5,750 families. New and upgraded roads would improve transporta-
tion for about 50,000 people living in or near the project areas. Regional
needs would be served through the development of an under-utilized and sparsely
populated land area, establishment of oil palms and coconuts in conditions
representative of future expansion areas of these crops in South Sumatera and
West Java. Shifting cultivation and indiscriminate forest clearing are
serious problems in the provinces of Aceh and South Sumatera where the new
land smallholder development components of the project are located. The
project would test different cost strategies for development of forest and
alang alang areas under a stable and proven agricultural system responsive to
criteria for protection of the environment.
2.12      There are sound practical and financial reasons for further invest-
ment in tree crops in the Other Islands as a means of attaining subsector
objectives. These are: (i) tree crop farming systems are well proven and
vitally important to the economies of the Other Islands; (ii) the remaining
uncultivated soils in the Other Islands are only moderately fertile and
unsuited (in terms of present knowledge) over large areas to sustain contin-
uous annual food cropping; they are however well-suited to tree crops; (iii)
the economic and financial return on investment in rubber, oil palms and
coconuts is satisfactory; (iv) by contrast to some other subsectors of
agriculture, the opportunity for satisfactory management capability in tree
crop agriculture exists in Indonesia; (v) such development would largely
benefit the target group of the rural poor; the distributional aspects of
this development strategy are highly favorable.
2.13      The project would also have wide institution building benefits in:
(i) strengthening the Directorate General of Estates in planning, project
preparation and in implementation and evaluation of ongoing projects; (ii)
improving the planning, production and financial management techniques of the
public sector estates system; (iii) training management for estate crops
(with emphasis on rubber, oil palms, coconuts, sugar and tea); (iv) strength-
ening the structure and development of the Indonesian rubber industry.
2.14      The objectives of the estates components are several.  For PNP X,
which has proved to be an effective and efficient implementor of an earlier
IDA project, the main objective is to bring the company to an economic size
of about 35,000 hectares. The inclusion of the oil palm component is de-
signed to diversify the company. The earlier project Credit 319-IND was
intended to plant ultimately 15,400 hectares (Annex 19, Table 3 of Report PA
138) of oil palm in Lampung. However, during supervision the project design
was changed for climatic and other agronomic reasons to include only 6,840
hectares of oil palm. South Sumatera where PNP X has a part of its holdings,
is better suited for oil palm and therefore in this present project a plan for
10,000 hectares oil palms has been developed of which the Bank would finance
5,000 hectares. Finally, through the project the financial structure of the
company would be improved by infusion of new equity to finance part of the
local currency cost of the project.



- 12 -
2.15     For PTP XI a major objective is the rehabilitation of the assets of
the company. For this objective the project is similar to those financed by
Credits 155, 194, 259 and 319, which are progressing satisfactorily. A second
objective is to diversify PTP XI so that it ultimately will have an equal area
of rubber and coconuts,each of about 12,500 hectares. A third objective is to
rationalize the company by reducing the number of estates, crops and factories
in order to have about 12 estates of economic size.
2.16     Continued assistance to the estate industry is mainly justified
on economic/efficiency criteria. However, the social/employment objectives
are equally important. Estates create job opportunities at similar costs to
smallholder projects, while living conditions are improved by providing
medical facilities, housing, education, pension and sick leave benefits, and
dependents' allowances in the form of rice. These social objectives are
receiving more attention. Population planning and nutrition improvement
programs are being upgraded. Estate companies recognize that these social
improvements lead to increased productivity of the labor force and to more
stable social conditions.
C. Project Formulation
Project Areas
2.17      Project areas are described below by subproject description:
(a) New Settlement - Alue Iemerah, Aceh.
Located about 89 km from Langsa town in the province of Aceh and
adjacent to the Public Sector PNP I Julo Rayeu Estate, the project
area has a net plantable area for rubber and subsistence crops of
17,500 ha. Although located in immediate proximity to PNP I, GOI
intends that PTP V would act as the nucleus estate responsible for
development of the settlement rubber in the project area. PTP V is
also located in North Sumatera on a 30,000 ha area near Medan. PTP
V has been chosen for this role rather than PNP I since it is
presently more financially secure and has a greater technical and
managerial capacity to carry out work beyond its own development
program. PNP I would provide processing and marketing facilities to
the project settlement area at the appropriate time. Participants
would be readily recruited from both the surrounding area and other
parts of the province where smallholder agriculture is at a low
level of productivity with average net farm incomes varying from
US$200 to US$300.



- 13 -
(b) New Settlement - Tebenan, South Sumatera.
The new settlement area at Tebenan is located about 75 km from
Palembang, the capital of South Sumatera province and adjacent to
the Public Sector PNP X Tebenan Estate. The area comprises about
11,500 ha of land suitable for rubber development and subsistence
crops. GOI intends that PNP X would be the nucleus estate respon-
sible for rubber development in this area. The area to be planted
is uninhabited but some 10,000 families (59,000 people) live on
smallholdings within 5-10 km of the area. It is estimated these
smallholders have average net farm incomes varying from US$150 to
US$250. These smallholders would be the target group for recruitment
to the project area.
(c)  Expansion of PEP X, Lampung and South Sumatera
Part of the project area for PNP X, about 4,100 ha suitable for rubber
and oil palm, would be the extension of the area and program
carried out under Credit 319-IND in the province of Lampung.
PNP X's development program also includes a 10,000 ha area suit-
able for oil palm in the province of South Sumatera on the Betung
Oil Palm Estate. PNP X would utilize 5,000 ha of this area
for oil palm planting in the next five years. This area lies
adjacent to the present PNP X Tebenan Estate. The area is linked
to Palembang by an asphalt road with a maximum weight limit
of two tons. In view of proposed developments, road improvements
would also be necessary (para. 3.23). There are no facilities for
bulk shipment of palm oil from Palembang port at present although
port facilities are otherwise well developed there.
(d) Rehabilitation of PTP XI, West Java. The subproject area for the
rehabilitation and diversification of PTP XI is located in the
province of West Java where PTP XI operates 15 small scattered
estates with a presently planted area of 23,198 ha including 19,806
ha rubber. Terrain varies from undulating to hilly, elevation from
near sea level to 1,000 meters and annual rainfall from 1,700 mm in
dry years to 6,000 mm in wet years. Much of the rubber is growing
in sub-optimum conditions, is unsatisfactory and estate facilities
are very run down. The project area is densely populated and has a
substantial level of underemployment.
(e) Technical Assistance. Technical assistance provided under the
project includes assistance to: the Directorate General of Estates
in Jakarta in planning, project preparation and implementation and
evaluation; the MOA Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
located in Jakarta and its Joint Marketing Organizations; accounting
reform for the public sector estates through the MOA; the Estates
Training Institute (LPP) located in Yogyakarta, Central Java.



- 14 -
Family Incomes, Cost Recovery and Farm Plan in Settlement Subprojects
2.18      Family Income.  To ensure a minimum level of income in either cash or
kind requires that a settler family income target be formulated. GOI formula-
tion of a family net income target coupled with their decision to recover a
proportion of the farm development costs determines the size of the farm
operation needed to make this financially possible. In formulating policy for
Nucleus Estates projects for the Pelita II period, GOI has not established a
fixed target income. However, a minimum level of family income of US$800
(constant 1976 $) at full development has been indicated by GOI.
2.19      Family income of US$800 at full project development is an acceptable
income target for Nucleus Estates projects within minimum subsistence criteria,
national macro-economic parameters, and regional requirements in the project
areas. The minimum subsistence level (MSL) in Indonesia to assure recommended
daily nutrient intake and minimum allowance for clothing, shelter, medical
costs, and transport is estimated at US$84 per person per annum./l   A
target net family income of US$800 implies a growth rate of 4.5% in per
capita consumption to 1990-91 from the minimum subsistence level. Comparison
of this family income target with present family incomes in the area of
settler origin indicates that US$800 at full development would provide
adequate incentive to settlers to relocate. More important as a design
parameter, this level of income will also be necessary in relation to alterna-
tive employment opportunities for farm families living in immediate proximity
to estates in Aceh and South Sumatera and Lampung. Estate workers are
estimated to have incomes comparable to project settlers of US$750 in 1990-91.
A farm plan generating about US$800 would ensure that farm families remain on
the settlement and develop their holdings with farm income growth keeping
pace with projected gradual improvements in real wages of estate laborers.
2.20      Cost Recovery.  GOI policy requires that a proportion of farm
development be recovered from the project beneficiaries in Nucleus Estates
Projects. BRI has been designated as the fiscal agent for cost recovery. The
decision to recover a part or all of on-farm costs directly influences farm
size and the GOI resource allocation required to ensure that the family income
objectives can be achieved. Details of cost recovery are included in para.
3.53.
/1 MSL has been defined as 1,950 calories per day and 30 gra7ns of protein per
day with a 20% nonfood allowance.



- 15 -
2.21      Farm Plan.  In the period of immaturity, one member per smallholder
family would be offered full-time employment as a rubber smallholder-trainee
employed by the nucleus estate. Provision is also made in the farm model for
production of basic family food supplies during this period. Risks and
uncertainties associated with food cropping required that an assured income
base be obtained from the rubber component of the farm model. Analysis of
farm models and cost recovery alternatives relevant to family income targets
determined the allocation of a block of two ha of rubber within a total farm
size of 5 ha per settler family. In addition to the establishment of a small
(0.2 ha) intensively cultivated house garden, the basic farm plan envisages
the necessity for each family to practice rotational annual food cropping on
soils of relatively low fertility in a total area of 2.8 ha. The total farm
area at full development is expected to consist of 2 ha of rubber (planted
under the subproject), 1 ha of tree crops planted from the settlers' own
resources with perhaps coconuts or rubber, a 0.2 ha house lot producing fruit
and vegetables under intensive cultivation and 1.8 ha of land under rotational
food cropping/leguminous fallow. Rotational subsistence cropping within 3 ha
for the smallholder components in Aceb and South Sumatera together with
employment provided by the Nucleus Estate would ensure that family income
during the initial six years of settlement until rubber comes into tapping
would not fall below the minimum family subsistence level. The farm plan is
designed to provide the least investment cost allocation by GOI to settlement
projects while maintaining incomes per farm family of US$800 at full develop-
ment, after recovery of the cost of rubber and subsistence crop development,
and housing. A family income of US$800 at full development would ensure
sufficient net cash incomes to meet the subsistence needs of the smallholders
and provide capital for new planting or replanting of old rubber. Incomes
from farm models are discussed in para. 6.21.
General Standards
2.22      Rubber Development.  Estate standards for rubber development
including labor and machine requirements for land clearing, the use of
fertilizer and other material inputs, and the costs of rubber establishment
are well known. PTP V and PNP X selected as nucleus estates to the DGE for
development in the settlement areas have previously received IDA finance under
Credits 155 and 319-IND. Since both estates have developed considerable skill
and experience in land clearing and tree crop development, it is essential that
they have full authority to operate the resources, machinery, material inputs,
labor and finance, required to achieve and hand over to the settler potentially
high yielding areas of three year old rubber. Project formulation, therefore,
aimed at making the nucleus estate responsible for clearing of future rubber
land, rubber planting and maintenance, construction of settler housing, construc-
tion of rubber area roads, and procurement and application of inputs for rubber
development during the entire rubber immature period. Rubber would be estab-
lished in large blocks of 1,000 ha so as to reduce nucleus estate development
costs to a minimum. Rubber area roads would be designed to estate standards.
The nucleus estates would be authorized to recruit casual labor, to be accom-
modated in temporary housing, wherever future settler labor is unavailable.



- 16 -
2.23      Settlement Design Standards.  In order to minimize initial settle-
ment costs, settlement design stresses gotong royong (mutual cooperation
between farm families) for subsequent improvements to minor roads and social
facilities buildings in the village centers. Low cost settler housing has
been designed on a core shell concept (figure 3), similar to that used in the
transmigration project to provide adequate shelter with allowance for self-
constructed expansion. Food crops would be allocated to blocks of 1,500 ha
net on the terrain of least slope. Central and satellite villages would be
located in the food crop areas in a nucleated layout /1 thereby minimising
road costs and maximizing community development as in the traditional Sumateran
Village layouts. Settlers would live on their 0.2 ha house lot with rubber
land no more than three km from the house and food crop land somewhat closer.
2.24      Settlement Facilities.  To ensure replicability, settlement design,
housing design and facilities would be based upon GOI standards. Social faci-
lities, health, education, religious and community buildings would be constructed
by existing provincial services and agencies, at standards prevailing at present
and adaptable to improvements planned for these services in the future. Initially,
higher levels of these services would be concentrated in the central villages
(one central village would serve two satellite villages). Main access roads
and village roads would be designed to Bina Marga standards and adapted for
local traffic conditions. Health and school facilities would reflect the
target levels set in the second Five-Year Plan and developed under the INPRES
(Rural Public Works) Program.
2.25      Selection and Recruitment of Settlers.  The project has been de-
signed to provide for landless participants or those who presently have small
uneconomic land holdings. Priority would be given firstly to suitably quali-
fied rural families within the project area and secondly, to those residents
of the Province in which the project is located. After fulfilling these demands,
landless applicants from other areas would be recruited through the Directorate
General of Transmigration in coordination with the DGE. Applicant families
would include male heads of households between 20-40 years and preference would
be given to families with incomes below Rp 120,000 (US$290). Recruitment would
be carried out by the Project Manager in cooperation with the Provincial Co-
ordinating Committee (para. 4.11). Detailed guidelines for selection and re-
cruitment are contained in Annex I, Section A4.
/1 Settlement and village layout plans are in figures 1 and 2.



- 17 -
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION, COSTS AND FINANCING
A. The Project
Summary
3.01      The project areas are outlined in para. 2.14.  The main
project components are summarized below according to objectives:
3.02      Utilization of Rehabilitated Public Sector Estates as Nucleus
Estates for New Land Development for Smallholders.
(a)  New Settlement at Alue Iemerah, Aceh
(i) construction in seven development schemes of seven central
villages each with a village center, and 14 satellite villages
with a total of 3,500 settler houses;
(ii)  equipping and staffing school facilities in each central
village and health facilities in all villages;
(iii) construction of 44 km of all weather project access road,
84 km of village roads, 14 km of primary rubber area roads,
164 km of secondary rubber area roads and 105 km of farm
roads and tracks;
(iv)  block planting of 7,000 ha of rubber with nucleus estate
maintenance for three years;
(v) distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops for the
first year of each phase of development of food crops within an
overall available area of 10,500 ha including 700 ha of house
gardens;
(vi) establishment and staffing of agricultural credit, extension
and cooperative services.
(b) New Settlement at Tebenan, South Sumatera
(i) construction in five development schemes of four central
villages each with a village center and 10 satellite villages
with a total of 2,250 settler houses;
(ii)  equipping and staffing school facilities in each central
village and health facilities in each village;
(iii) construction of 24 km of all weather project access road,
46 km of village roads, 9 km of primary rubber area roads,
100 km of secondary rubber area roads and 70 km of farm roads
and tracks;
(iv) block planting of 4,500 ha of rubber with nucleus estate
maintenance for three years;



- 18 -
(v)  distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops for the
first year of each phase of development within an overall
available area of 6,750 ha including 450 ha of house gardens;
(vi)  establishment and staffing of agricultural credit, extension
and cooperative services.
3.03      Rehabilitation and Further Strengthening of Public Sector Estates
in Preparation for a Future Nucleus Estate Role.
(a)  Expansion of PNP X, Lampung and South Sumatera
(i)  Expansion of the planting program begun under Credit 319-IND,
of 4,100 ha of rubber in the Province of Lampung;
(ii)  Acquisition of 7,300 ha new land suitable for oil palm develop-
ment as Betung Oil Palm Estate, adjacent to Tebenan rubber
estate and of 1,000 ha of Oud Wassenar Estate, both in the
Province of South Sumatera; planting of 5,000 ha of oil palms
as part of an eventual 10,000 ha program, the remaining 5,000
ha to be financed by PNP X's own resources;
(iii) construction of housing for about 2,500 families, resulting from
the employment of about 3,500 laborers by end-1981 in both
Lampung and South Sumatera;
(iv)  construction of a 30 ton fruit bunches/hour mill and asso-
ciated water supply facilities, with facility to expand to
60 ton fruit bunches/hour capacity, and expansion of the Bekri
oil mill by a 20 ton fruit bunches/hour capacity;
(v)  expansion of the Kedaton rubber processing plant at Lampung by
a 20 ton/hour capacity;
(vi)  construction of a 3,000 ton palm oil bulking installation on
the Musi River about seven km downstream from Palembang town.
(b) Rehabilitation and Diversification of PTP XI, West Java
(i)  replanting rubber on 3,713 ha, rehabilitation of 12,736 ha
rubber, and conversion of 4,232 ha into coconuts;
(ii)  construction of housing for about 1,800 families to replace
existing substandard housing for labor and staff.
(iii) construction at Klapa Nunggal near Bogor, of a latex concen-
trate plant with a capacity of 16 tons/day, consolidation
of existing concentrate facilities through closure of the
Pasir Waringin plant and expansion of the Serpong plant;



- 19 -
(iv)  concentration of sheet rubber production in the Banten area
involving expansion of the Bojong Datar sheet factory to a capa-
city of 10 tons/day and rehabilitation of existing facilities;
(v) concentration of block rubber production in the Sukabumi area with
expansion of the Sukabumi factory to a capacity of 18 tons/day;
(vi)  road rehabilitation, replacement of rundown vehicles and equipment,
and construction of a new head office in a central location near
Bogor;
(vii) rationalization of estate operations through cessation of unecono-
mic field, processing and manufacturing activities, sale or
transfer of uneconomic land units and grouping of estate areas
into larger management units.
3.04      Program Support for Smallholder Rubber Replanting and Nucleus Estate
Activities.
Technical Assistance to the Directorate General of Estates
(a)  Technical assistance to the DGE for three years in planning, implemen-
tation, monitoring and evaluation of the two settlement projects, and
the entire development program of the DGE through financing the
services of:
(i) a specialist in project preparation, implementation and evalu-
ation;
(ii)  a specialist in project finance, procurement and administration;
and
(iii) short-term consultant services for project preparation, village
and settlement planning, technical studies and other expertise
as required.
Technical Assistance to the Public Sector Estates
(b)  Expansion of the MOA Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises to
improve its capability in guidance to the public sector estates
system through financing the services of six specialists and short-
term consultants for three years in:
(i) investment appraisal and investment planning/programming/
budgeting;
(ii)  financial management and control;
(iii) production management;
(iv)  processing/estate engineering;



- 20 -
(v) marketing; and
(vi) organization of quality control inspection services.
Assistance would also be provided for the further development of the unified
management information, accounting and budgeting systems installed in the
PNP/PTPs by Sycip, Gores and Velayo. The project also includes short-term con-
sultancy services to provide additional expertise to the six functions described
above, as required from time to time.
(c) Expansion of the Activities of the Estates Training Institute
(LPP) with emphasis on business management and technical training
through:
(i)  recruitment of four internationally qualified advisors for
a period of three years;
(ii) provision of local and overseas training for lecturers and
selected PNP/PTP top management staff;
(iii) appointment of about 10 new Indonesian lecturers;
(iv) reorganiztion of the LPP divisions along functional
lines;
(v)  setting up a sub-center of the LPP at Medan with appoint-
ment of five lecturers to teach rubber and oil palm
agronomy and processing.
Project Phasing
3.05      Phasing of main project physical components is outlined below:
(a) Alue Iemerah Settlement - Aceh
Table 1
 -----------  Year  -
1     2      3       4      5    Total
Rubber planted (ha/yr)            500  1,250  1,500  1,875  1,875  7,000
Total field laborers (no/yr)    400  1,227  1,880  2,561  2,932          -
Total settler families (cum.)   250    875  1,625  2,562  3,500  3,500
Total outside laborers (no/yr)  150    352    255         -       -      -
Central villages (units)            1       1      1      2       2      7
Satellite villages (units)          -      3       4      4       3     14



- 21 -
(b)  Tebenan Settlement - South Sumatera
Table 2
----------- Year -----------
1     2       3       4       5    Total
Rubber planted (ha/yr)             500  1,000  1,500  1,500             4,500
Total field laborers (no/yr)       543  1,303  2,171  2,598  1,179           -
Total settler families (cum.)   250    750  1,500  2,250  2,250  2,250
Total outside laborers (no/yr)  293    553    671    348             -       -
Central villages (units)             1      1       1       1        -       4
Satellite villages (units)           -       2       4       4       -      10
(c) PNP X
Table 3
____________------ Year --------
0     1      2       3       4      5    Total
South Sumatera
Oil palms planted (ha/yr)  -  1,000  2,000  2,000    -           -      5,000
Processing plant (tons                              30    -      -          30
f.f.b./hr)
Bulking installation (units)                         1                       1
Lampung
Rubber planted (ha/yr)   595  1,889  1,150    167   137   162    4,100
Processing plant:
Oil palm (tons f.f.b./hr)-        -       20      -      -     -         20
Rubber (tons/day)          -      -       20      -      _     _         20
(d) PTP XI
Table 4
------------- Year ------------
1      2       3       4       5    Total
Rubber planted (ha/yr)             702    760    839    583    829  3,713
Rehabilitation mature rubber
(ha/yr)                    4,000  5,637       -      -        -   9,637
Rehabilitation untapped          1,030  1,030       -      -        -   2,060
mature rubber (ha/yr)
Rehabilitation immature          1,039       -      -      -        -   1,039
rubber (ha/yr)
Coconuts planted (ha/yr)            30  1,006  1,054  1,070  1,072  4,232
New latex concentrate facili-
ties completed (units)                  1                              1
Expansion sheet factories
completed (units)                       1                              1
Expansion block factories
completed (units)                       1                              1



- 22 -
Detailed Features /1
(a)  Alue Iemerah Settlement-Aceh (US$15.3 million)
Physical Development
3.06      Village Centers (US$0.4 million).  Seven central villages,
14 satellite villages would be built in Alue Iemerah, to accommodate
a total of 3,500 settler families with 250 families per central and
125 families per satellite village. Central villages which would cater for
one central and two satellites would include a village office, primary
school, village health post, mosque, community center and nursery house
(day care center). In satellite villages there would be a first aid post,
community hall, mushalla and nursery house. Higher levels of these basic
services such as junior high schools and health centers would be distributed
among the central villages in relation to location and proximity to main
access roads. One village center in each scheme would include buildings
for the project office, estate offices, garages and guest house.
3.07      Housing (US$2.6 million).  At Alue Iemerah, 3,500 simple houses
(US$1.8 million) would be provided for the settlers, each costing approximately
US$500. Houses would have a similar design to that used in Transmigration
Project I and would consist of a timber frame and walls, a tile roof and
concrete floor utilizing local materials of standard dimensions built to
qualitative standards aceptable to the Bank. The house is designed for
lateral expansion and it is anticipated that settlers would expand on existing
structures using their own resources. The clay tile roof would allow for
clean rainwater collection into single storage drums. Additional housing for
mandors, nurses, midwives, project and estate managers would be constructed
according to GOI specification (US$0.8 million).
3.08       Health (US$0.2 million).  The Project's low cost health system
would consist of primary medical care operated under Government standards
for the Second Five Year Plan and coordinated with the higher level facili-
ties of the administrative region. The health system similar to that under-
taken in Loan 1318-IND would include provision of village health posts, health
centers (Puskesmas), a nutrition and food supplementation program, malaria
control, family planning, and training for village health promoters.
3.09      Water Supply and Sanitation (US$0.3 million).  In Alue Iemerah,
present hydrological information indicates that adequate groundwater supplies
will be available from wells. Provision is made for 700 wells and handpumps
(1 per 5 families). Pit latrines would be dug for each family.
/1 Project costs listed in this section are quoted in constant 1976
prices and exclude price and physical contingencies.



- 23 -
3.10      Roads (US$1.5 million).  The objective of the projects road
component is to establish a low-cost feeder road system in the settlement
areas to: (i) link the settlement to the provincial road network by means of
all weather access roads; (ii) provide all weather roads between the settle-
ment villages and the main access roads; and (iii) provide farm roads and
tracks for access from the villages to rubber and food crop areas. In
Alue Imerah, 44 km of all weather main access road, 84 km of village roads,
14 km of primary rubber roads, 154 km of secondary rubber area roads and
105 km of farm roads and tracks would be constructed.
3.11      Vehicles (US$0.4 million).  Vehicles required during project
implementation would include jeeps and motorcycles, pick-up trucks, and
mobile agricultural equipment.
3.12      Rubber Block Planting (US$8.4 million).  Out of its total land
allocation of 5 ha each settler family would receive a 2 ha block of rubber
subject to certain conditions (para. 4.19). A total of 7,000 ha would be
planted with rubber in blocks of 1,000 ha. Land would be cleared by the PTP
V nucleus estate, who would also supply polybag clonal planting material and
fertilizer and employ the settlers on contract as trainee rubber farmers, to
plant, maintain, fertilize and weed rubber for a period of three years after
field planting. During this three year period, the nucleus estate would have
the authority in the interests of cost effectiveness, to centrally manage the
trainee rubber farmers in a grouped manner, in accordance with normal estate
management practices. After the three year period, settlers would be respon-
sible for the operation of their individual rubber areas, but would receive
guidance, training and advice through arrangements with the nucleus estate.
During years 4-6, up to the production stage, the nucleus estate would act as
procurement agent for on-farm inputs and would provide processing and marketing
services.
3.13      Food Cropping (US$0.2 million).  Within three months of entry to the
settlement project, settlers would receive conditional title to 5 ha, including
3 ha of subsistence food crop land. In the first year of settlement, the
PNP/PTP would procure and provide inputs for food crop production and house
garden establishment (fertilizer, seed, etc.) in the value of US$17 equivalent.
Thereafter inputs for food crop production would be supplied under the National
BIMAS Program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
arrangements necessary to extend the provincial BIMAS program into the settle-
ment area will be made by June 30, 1978. Provision has also been made for the
nucleus estate to continue to procure and supply food crop inputs for project
settlers until such time as the BIMlAS program is extended to adequately serve
settlers.
3.14      Agricultural Services.  Settlers would receive on-the-job training
in rubber husbandry from the nucleus estate. The Project Manager would arrange
extension services for food cropping activities and after three years for
rubber in cooperation with the nucleus estate. Within the settlement area,
BUUD/KUDs would be established during the project. Processing and marketing
services would be provided by the nucleus estate after the project period.



- 24 -
3.15      Project Management (US$1.3 million).  Central Government respon-
sibility for project mangement would be placed upon the DGE. At provincial
level the Chairman of Bappeda would be project coordinator (para. 4.10). The
operating costs of the Dinas Perkebunan Daerah and the staff salaries including
the project manager have been costed in the project (US$0.2 million). Estate
management and overheads would include field and head office overheads (US$1.1
million).
(b) Tebenan Settlement - South Sumatera (US$10.2 million).
3.16      The design of physical and agricultural development would be
similar to Alue Iemerah. In the following paragraphs the few differences
are detailed.
3.17      Physical Development (US$0.2 million).  Four central villages
and 10 satellite villages to accommodate 2,250 settler families.
3.18      Housing (US$1.7 million).  A total of 2,250 settler houses would be
constructed (US$1.1 million) while housing for managers, field assistants,
nurses, etc. (US$0.6 million) would also be provided.
3.19      Health, Water Supply and Sanitation (US$0.5 million).  In Tebenan,
present hydrological information indicates that adequate groundwater supplies
may not be available from wells. Rainwater collection would be a primary
source of water supply. DGE would make further studies of the mode of water
supply which would be adopted in Tebenan. Improved water supply and sanitation
(US$0.01 million) would be complemented with the health program (US$0.4 million)
as outlined in para. 3.08. In the event of severe water shortages, standby
water equipment for deep well construction has been included in physical
contingencies (US$0.4 million).
3.20      Roads (US$1.0 million).  In Tebenan 24 km of main access road,
46 km of village roads, 109 km of primary and secondary estate roads and
70 km of farm roads and tracks would be constructed.
3.21      Rubber Block Planting (US$5.2 million).  A total of 4,500 ha would
be planted in blocks of 1,000 ha and one block of 500 ha by the PNP X nucleus
estate contractor.
3.22      Project Management and Agricultural Services (US$1.6 million).  The
remainder of project costs for Tebenan settlement would include vehicles
(US$0.6 million), project and estate management (US$0.9 million), and food
cropping (US$0.1 million).
(c) Expansion of PNP X - Lampung and South Sumatera (US$30.6 million).
3.23      Physical Development (US$17.0 million).  Housing would be con-
structed for 2,500 families. The projected final area of Betung Oil Palm Estate
is 10,000 ha requiring a mill with a capacity of 60 tons fruit bunches/hour in
1985. The area to be planted under the project is, however, 5,000 ha, requiring
a mill capacity of 30 tons/hour, installed by 1980. This capacity would be



- 25 -
installed within a building and civil works framework of sufficient size to
contain the equipment and machinery necessary for a capacity of 60 tons/hour.
The total cost of the eventual 60 ton mill including bulking installation and
water facilities is estimated at US$7.5 million (constant 1976 $). A 3 km
primary estate road would be constructed to provide access from the main road
to the mill. A 60 ton/hour mill would require 90 cubic meters water per hour
transported along a single pipeline. A pump house including diesel pumps with
a capacity 60% of that required for the 60 tons mill would be constructed under
the project along with the associated pipeline and water treatment plant.
A suitable site for the bulking installation has been identified about 7 km
downstream from Palembang town opposite the Pertamina tank farm. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government will provide land suitable
for a bulking installation for palm oil at the Palembang Port by December 31, 1977.
The first 3,000 ton stage of the 10,000 ton installation would be commissioned
in 1981 and would consist of a wharf, pumphouse and boiler room, weighbridge
and office and three 1,000 ton storage tanks. The project also provides for
the expansion of Bekri oil palm mill in Lampung by a 20 ton f.f.b./hour capa-
city to raise the capacity of this mill to 40 ton f.f.b./hour. The Kedaton
crude rubber processing plant, also in Lampung, would be expanded by a 20
ton/hour capacity. Transport and agricultural equipment requirements (US$1.4
million) for the period 1979-1981 have also been included in the project as
well as required inspection and consultancy services. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that the GOI will improve the road from Palembang to
the PNP X project area by March 31, 1979, to an asphalt standard adequate to
support 6-ton trucks at 40 km per hour.
3.24      Agricultural Development (US$13.6 million).  Oil palm areas including
primary and secondary estate roads would be developed according to the program
in para. 3.03. The project would support the new planting of 5,000 ha of oil
palms on the Betung Estate as part of a total program of 10,000 ha. Some 2,300
ha of this land is already owned by PNP X. Under the project PNP X would
acquire 7,300 ha of new land and 1,000 ha of Oud Wassenar Estate (an adjacent
government owned abandoned estate). The secondary jungle and lalang grass in
the area would be cleared mechanically and with the use of herbicides. These
operations would be followed by sowing a leguminous cover crop and planting of
polybagged palms, typically in the November and February period. During
negotiations, a statement was provided by the Governor of South Sumatera that
suitable land had been made available for the Betung Oil Palm Estate to plant
an eventual 10,000 ha of oil palm. Additionally, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Borrower will cause PNP X from its own resources or from
funds made available by the Borrower, to complete the planted area of oil palm
in the Betung Estate to 10,000 ha in the period 1982-84.
3.25      Corporate Operations.  PNP X activities would be concentrated in two
areas, Lampung and Palembang. Also, PNP X would substantially limit its
operations to rubber and oil palm. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Borrower will cause PNP X prior to December 31, 1979, to divest the
company of the Pagar Alam Estate.
(d) Rehabilitation and Diversification of PTP XI, West Java (US$24.0
million)



- 26 -
3.26      Physical Development (US$11.8 million).  The main physical develop-
ments relate to road rehabilitation, replacement of vehicles and equipment,
processing facilities and housing and buildings. Estate roads are generally
in bad condition, having received inadequate maintenance. The roads rehabili-
tation program (US$0.4 million) involves 100 km of access roads, 250 km of pri-
mary and secondary estate roads and 33 bridges of varying specifications. The
estate fleet of vehicles, tractors and equipment is old and urgently requires
replacement in terms of high operating costs and the need to support a rapid
program of rehabilitation. The 5-year replacement program (US$2.2 million)
includes 40 personnel vehicles, 50 five ton trucks, 40 wheeled tractors, 6 craw-
ler tractors, 30 tractor trailers, agricultural equipment, 60 latex transport
tanks, 4 road motor graders and stone breakers. In the field of processing,
PTP XI would continue to produce a diversified and balanced rubber product in
the form of latex concentrate, block rubber and ribbed smoked sheet with
facilities progressively consolidated by product in three main areas - latex
concentrate at Klapanunggal near Bogor, sheet rubber in Banten and block
rubber in Sukabumi. The processing program (US$2.3 million) including a
new 16 ton/day latex concentrate plant would be constructed at Klapanunggal
and would be completed by 1979 (US$1.6 million). This plant would be extended
after the completion of the project to 26 tons/day. Upon completion of the
Klapanunggal plant, the Pasir Waringin plant would be closed down and the
useful machinery transferred to Serpong and Klapanunggal, with the major
latex concentrate activity located in the Bogor area. The production of
sheet rubber would be concentrated in the Banten area where present sheet
facilities are in fairly satisfactory condition. The program would involve
some rehabilitation of existing facilities and expansion of the Bojong Datar
sheet factory from 4.6 to 10 tons per day (US$0.4 million). Block rubber
production would be centralized in the Sukabumi area where the existing
factory would be expanded to a capacity of 18 tons/day (US$0.3 million).
This program involves the closure of several small isolated sheet factories
but sufficient sheet capacity would be retained in reserve to allow an
increased production of this type of rubber if warranted by market conditions.
Staff and labor accommodation is well below required estate standards and
under the project housing for 1,800 labor families and 30 staff houses
would be constructed. The present site of the PTP XI head office in Jakarta
is badly located in relation to the estates and operating facilities are
poor. A new head office would be erected at Bogor, a most suitable location
for provision of support and control of field and processing operations. The
program for housing and buildings (US$5.1 million) would be extended over 5
years. Consultancy and inspection services (US$1.3 million) have been in-
cluded to advise management on technical matters and to monitor the successful
implementation of the project.
3.27      'gricultural Development (US$12.2 million).  The project would
support rubber replanting on 3,713 ha and rehabilitation on 12,736 ha
rubber, spread over the 1977-78 period. The latter area consists of 9,700
ha post-1959 mature r ber, 1,339 ha immature rubber and a further 2,060
ha of untapped abando-i d and untapped overage immature rubber. A similar
area of 1,039 ha untap ed rubber in poor condition would be discarded. The



- 27 -
remaining area of 6,600 ha mature pre-1959 rubber would receive minimum
upkeep only. Strategy would be to concentrate upon improvement in tapping
standards and rehabilitation of young mature rubber with the largest yield
potential. This project would have a strong coconut orientation and some
4,232 ha of old and abandoned rubber would be planted with high yielding
hybrid coconuts. The project would make an important contribution to the
improvement of coconut technology in the area, through commercial scale tests
of planting material under a range of soil, rainfall and temperature condi-
tions; the development of modern techniques in determination of nutritional
requirements; investigation of intercropping and livestock opportunities in
combination with coconuts.
3.28     Corporate Operations.  The production and  processing units of
PTP XI are small and scattered and generally intra and inter-estate road
communication is slow. There are 15 estates on all of which there is rubber,
with a total planted area of 20,477 ha. Estate size varies from 1,300 to 5,000
ha and all estates consist of several divisions. Processing facilities
are found on 17 sites. Estate altitude varies from near sea level to 1,000
m. Several estates are located near the potential industrial and development
sites in the Jakarta-Bogor region. A major objective of the planting program
is to progressively restrict rubber cultivation to 8 estates most suited to
rubber, in the vicinity of the three main processing areas and to concentrate
coconuts on 5 different estates which will be reorganized and amalgamated.
Rubber requires a higher intensity of supervision than coconuts and the latter
would be planted on the smaller and more distant estates. Furthermore, the
PTP is involved in production of a wide range of crops on a small scale basis,
other than rubber. These activities include tea, cloves, albizzia and gutta
percha. Small scale manufacturing units for production of rubber tires and
boots are in operation. In addition to grouping of estate areas and processing
facilities into larger management units by product, the project involves
rationalization of estate operations through relocation of headquarters from
Jakarta to Bogor, cessation of uneconomic field, processing and manufacturing
activities and sale or transfer of uneconomic land units. For the relocation
of headquarters to Bogor, assurances were obtained at negotiations that PTP XI
will consult the Bank on the qualifications and cond?tions for employment of
architects for the design and supervision of the heat office. Assurances were:
also obtained that a program for rationalization of estate operations and trans-
fer of the head office will be submitted to the Bank by June 1, 1978, and that
the Borrower will cause PTP XI to implement this program prior to December 31,
1979.
(e) Project Program Support
Technical Assistance to the Directorate General of Estates (US$1.9 million)
3.29      Project Implementation.  Direction of the Bank financed small-
holder tea and rubber projects (Credits 358 and 400) is the responsibility
of the Director General of Estates.There are three Directorates within the DGE,
for planning, production and means of operation. To assist these Directorates
in operating the large development program of the DGE and the new smallholder
components of the proposed project, technical assistance would be provided to
the Directorates in the form of:



- 28 -
(i) a specialist in project preparation, implementation, monitoring,
and evaluation;
(ii) a specialist in project finance, procurement and administration.
Additional support for planning and implementation would be provided by short-
term consultants. Monitoring and evaluation studies would focus upon project
implementation progress, following the socio-economic development of the
smallholder projects and identifying project alternatives conducive to the
establishment of viable farming communities. The studies would also examine
the impact of the new settlements upon the adjacent micro-urban centers and
indigenous farming community.
Technical Assistance to the Public Sector Estates
3.30      Assistance to the HOA Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises
(US$3.8 million). The project would provide technical assistance in the
form of one internationally recruited specialist for each of the following
disciplines (US$2.6 million):
(i) investment appraisal and investment planning/programming/
budgeting;
(ii) financial management and control;
(iii) production management;
(iv) processing/estate engineering;
(v) marketing; and
(vi) organization of quality control inspection services.
These specialists would be located in the headquarters of MOA Support Staff
or its successor (para. 4.15) and would report directly to the staff for
Production and Development and for Finance and Marketing.
3.31      Following the management survey in 1972, the consulting firm
Sycip, Gores and Velayo (financed by Government and IDA under the Technical
Assistance Credits) assisted in the formulation and implementation of uniform
comprehensive accounting, budgeting and information systems, covering all 28
PNP/PTP's in the public sector estates organization. The systems were
implemented in 1975 and now provide an essential tool for management control
and decision making. The system needs, however, to be simplified and improved
following experience in the last two years. There is also an urgent need to
train the PNP/PTP/MOA staff to understand and make maximum use, for management
and operation of the estate groups, of the data provided by the systems. The
training program would cover all levels of management from the individual



- 29 -
estate division upwards to top management, totalling some 920 individuals and
would require altogether about 220 man-months divided between 18 consultants,
provided by a firm in this field (US$1.2 million). The program would include
analytical techniques, budgeting, financial statements including financial pro-
jections, manpower planning, internal controls, etc. The MOA Support Staff
would also arrange superior training for General Managers (5) in an inter-
nationally recognized institution.
3.32      The technical assistance team (para. 3.30) would have as a major
task the creation of unified inspection services reporting to the Support Staff
on performance of all PNP/PTPs (para. 4.15).
3.33      Expansion of the Estates Training Institute (US$2.8 million).
The project would provide technical and financial assistance to the Lembaga
Pendidikan Perkebunan (LPP) with the objectives of improving business
management training, provision of the latest technical training in crop
production and processing, use of modern training methods and adaptation of
courses to meet the identified needs of estates and factories. This would
be achieved by the following actions:
(i) recruitment of four internationally recruited advisors for a
period of three years;
(ii)  provision of local and overseas training for lecturers;
(iii) appointment of about 10 new Indonesian lecturers;
(iv)  reorganization of the LPP divisions along functional lines;
(v) setting up a sub-center of the LPP at Medan with appointment of five
lecturers to teach rubber and oil palm agronomy and processing.
(vi)  visiting lecturers from time to time up to 30 man-months;
(vii) equipment and teaching materials.
3.34      The PNP/PTPs would be given specific functions in training programs by:
(i) assigning responsibility to the PNP/PTPs for identification of
training needs of all staff and setting up training programs
for junior staff and artisans;
(ii)  appointing a training manager at each PNP/PTP and training him
in his duties; and
(iii) requiring consultation and cooperation between PNP/PTPs and the
LPP in the organization of management and other courses for staff
at all levels.



- 30 -
The LPP would have a key role in all training programs. It would execute the
training courses for all management staff and provide guidance to the PNP/PTPs
in training junior staff, artisans and workers. The PNP/PTPs, however, would
provide the main drive to achieve effective training of their own staff and
workers.
B. Project Cost Estimates
3.35      The project would be fully implemented over a ten-year period.
The Bank loan would assist with the financing over a five-year period. Table 6
on page 31 summarizes the costs of the project over the first five years of
implementation. Project costs during the period are estimated at US$134
million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$67 million (50%
of total cost). Full implementation of the project over a 10-year period is
estimated at about US$200 million. Details of the project costs are pre-
sented in the Staff Project File, Annex 1, Section CI-C5.
3.36      Base cost estimates, in mid-1975 prices updated to late 1976 prices,
were derived from consultant feasibility studies and detailed cost analyses of
the public sector estates involved in the proposed project. The investment
program and all operating costs for project components are incremental. A phy-
sical contingency of 10% is allowed on all investment items and on the number
of mandays of management consultants. Physical contingencies also include pro-
vision for stand-by water equipment (para. 3.19) in the Tebenan settlement
component (US$0.6 million). The provisions for expected price increases have
been computed based on the following projections:
Table 5:
Annual Inflation Rate
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981-82
Civil Works                16       14      12       10        8
Equipment and Services      8        8       8        7         7
Agrochemicals              -7       -7       0        0         0
The estimated schedule of project expenditures is shown in Table 7.



- 31 -
Table 6: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%         % of
(Rp Million)                 (US$ Million)      Foreign       Base
Local   Foreign  Total        Local   Foreign  Total  Exchange    Cost
1. Smallholder Development
South Sumatera smallholders       1,909   2,342    4,251        4.60    5.64    10.24          55       12
Aceh smallholders                 3,033   3,324    6,357        7.31    8.01    15.32          52       17
Subtotal                     4,942   5.666   10,608    11.91   13.65    25.56              53       29
II. Public Sector Estate Development
PNP X
Lampung Project                   3,725   1,795    5,520        8.98    4.32    13.30          32       15
South Sumatera - Betung Oil
Palm Estate                     3,537   3,625    7,162        8.52    8.74    17.26          51       19
Subtotal                     7,262   5,420   12,682    17.50   13.06    30.56              43       34
PTP XI
Rubber/Coconut development        5.080   4,899    9,979    12.24   11.80    24.04             49       27
Total Estate Development         12,342  10,319   22,661    29.74   24.86    54.60             45       62
III. Technical Assistance, Training,
and Supervision
Directorate General of
Estates                           226      573       799      0.54    1.38       1.92        72        2
Ministry of Agriculture
Support Staff                     431   1,157      1,588      1.04    2.79       3.83        73        4
Estates Training Institute          482      679    1,161       1.16    1.64       2.80        59        3
Subtotal                      1,139   2,409    3,548        2.74    5.81       8.55        68        9
Base Cost Estimate                    18,423  18,394   36,817    44.39   44.32    88.71             50      100
IV. Contingencies
Physical                          2,190   2,795    4,985        5.28    6.73    12.01          56        -
Expected price increases          7.193   6.615   13,808    17.33   15.95    33.28             48        -
Subtotal                      9,383   9,410   18,793    22.61   22.68    45.29             50        -
Total Expected Costs of
Project                        27,806  27.804   55.610    67.00   67.00   134.00             50      100



- 32 -
Table 7:  ESTIATEO SCHEDULE OF FROJECT EXPENDITURES ]
(Rp million)
oalCiosts
1977      We78     1979                         I IJOI  182  VP          us$
4011iLR)   (millioR)
A.  hal}holder Caqp -mta
heo
1.  iaHe it cos
rb., d-v._mt.                     327      551    1,152    1,303    1.623        8 5         5,21           14.0
&*.i    _ a5 _                      6       17        25       38        38         7          127           0.3
aj ect                             a sl      2         2        5         6        -             S9          0.1
hod.                             391       300        56        1         -        -           74            1.8
llhiclea    other eq.1pamnt       308        -         5        -         -        -           313           0.8
villa" infraetructire             225      298       365      480       435        -         1,823           4.4
blIth  ervice                      52       31        39       54        63         1          240           0.6
2. Operating costs
Project office                      7       14        16       17        19       2.0           93           0.2
Heath sarvicas                      3       10        14       18        22       24            91            2
lltate ovrrheds 6 _nagnt    49              83       173      202       244      130           881           2.1
Subtotal                   1.396    1.306    1.867    2.114    2.430    1.047           10.180          24.5
South Suentera
1.  Inestment Cets
liubber devel_nmst               346       404       842     -64        s0o      40          3,525           G.5
Subsistence pakats                  5       14        24       28         5        -            76           0.2
Project buildiags                            2         2        2         -        -            34           0.1
Needs                            279       289        27        -         -        -           595           1.4
%kiclss & osar  pqssat          308         -         5        -         -        -           313           0.8
Rlilege lfraotractare             209      252       352      312         -        -         1.125           2.7
h1aith servicca                   52        27        40       39         -        -           158           0.4
Stond-by -ater supply              -       251         -        -         -        -           251           0.6
2. Operating costs
Project office                      7       14        16       17        19       21            94           0.2
Haith  -ervices                     3       9         15       16        16       18            77           0.2
Estate overhead. 6   on geoent    52        61       126      148        76       66           529           1.3
Subtotal                   1.289    1.323    1.449    1.546         625      545         6.777          16.3
B. Estate DevelOoseut
PNP X
_     ..
LemunaR Area
1.  I-ve pteet coStS
Plantation developent          1,927    1,380        520      402         _        _         4.229          10.2
Proce..ing                       361       703       150        -         -        -         1,214           2.9
Tranport 4 &gric. equipnt          6         4        82      136         -        -           22d           0.6
Housing                          510       496       590      262         -        -         1.838           4.5
2. Operating costs
Office & teleco_unicstione         12       14        14       17         -        -            57           0.1
South Sster. - btuan  lNtate
1.  I-eatmeot coats
Pleantatio  d-velnosnt            316      8"      1,235      847       e0         -         3.997           9.6
Proce-sig                           6       29    3,530         -    1.5U          -         5.147          12.4
Transport A   cgric.  qnips-t    207       188         9       32        78        _           514           1.2
Husing                           225       382      419         7        17        -         1.050           2.5
2. Operating costs
Office & telecomunication.         12       14        14       27         -        _            67           0.2
Saspacti-n sevica  and
con-oltants                     40        60       81       110       114        -           405           1.0
Subtotal                     3.622    4.109    6.644    1.840                    -        18.7e6         45.2
PTP Xl
1.  Investnt coats
Plantation devlopnt            1,063    1,943    1,314    1.475    1,869           -         7.664          18.5
Processing                         -       957      364         -        -         -         1.321           3.2
Transoprt 4 eric. eqnip.et        W9       4        265        88        -         -         1,248           3.0
Sousing, t.d. A bridges          347    2,211       477       269       199        -         3.503          8.4
2. Operatin. costs
Office A talse icatioms           12        76        -        -         -         -            as           0.2
Inspection services ad
conaultDts                      93       172      170       164      170         -           769          1.9
Subtotal                     1.914    5.855    2,590    1.996    2.238           -       14.593          35.2
C. Technical S.rvices
Technical asistance - -hI             170      355       397      256         -        -         1.178           2.9
Technical assistance - MISA           344      763       924      293         -        -         2.324           5.6
Support for Est-te Training
Institute                          337       392      592       471        -         -         1,712          4.3
Subtotal                       851    1.510    1.913    1.020        -         -          5.294          12.8
Total costs                           9.072   14.103   14.463    8,516    7.864    1.592          556.10         134.0
Total costs (US$ million)                21.9     34.0      34.9     20.5      18.9      4.3      55.610         134.0
/n Icl.ding physical end price conti.g.ncios.



--33 -
Table 8: SOURCES OF FINANCE - PROJECT COSTS
(Rp million)
Total Costs               X of
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982          Rp            US$        Total Costs
(million)     (million)
A. Smaliholder Components
Aceh
Credit: On-farm Development 6 Rousing
IBRD contribution                             587        592     1,035      1,145      1,384        601       5,344        12.88               10
GOI contribution                              391        401        690        763       923        400       3,568         8.60                6
NonCredit: Village Infrastructure Access
and Village Roads, Social Services
ODI financed                                  418        313        141       207        143         45       1.267         3.05                2
Subtotal                            1.396      1,306      1.866      2.115      2.450      1.046     10.179        24.53               18
South Sumtera
Credit: On-farm Development 4 Housing
URD contribution                             581        592       801        872        432        383       3,661         8.82                7
GO1 contribution                             388        387        534       581        154        122       2,166         5.22                4
NonCredit: Village Infrastructure Access
and Village Roads, Social Services
GOI financed                                 320        344        115        93         39         40         952         2.29                2
Subtotal                            1,289      1,323      1.450      1.546        625        545      6.778        16.33               13
Total Smaliholder Components                           2,685     2.629      3.316      3,661      3.075      1,.591     16957         40.86              31
B. Estates Components
PNP X
Lampuna Development Rubber, Oil Pals
IBRD contribution                                     458      1,003        631        486                   -        2,578         6.21                5
001 contribution                                     1,769       550        -          -          -          -         2,319         5.59               4
PNP X own funds                                       589      1,044        725        331        -          _        2.689         6.48                5
Subtotal                            2,816      2,597      1,356        817        -         _         7,586        18.28               14
South Suastera - Betung Oil Palm Development
IBRD contribution                                     408        606      2,834        314      1,551        -        5,713        13.77               10
GOI contribution                                       478     1,069      2,695        -          -                   4,242         10.22               8
PNP X own funds                                        (80)     (163)      (241)       709      1.000                 1225          2.95                2
Subtotal                              806      1.512      5.288      1,023     2.551        -        11.180        26.94               20
Total PNP X                                            3,622     4.109      6.644      1.840      2,551        _        18,766       45.22               34
PTP Xl
IBRD contribution                                    1,142     3,354      1,224        164        170        -        6,054        14.59               11
PTP XI own funds                                       422     1,403      1,366      1,832      2,068        -        7,091        17.09               13
Government loan                                        350     1,098        -          -          -          -         1448          3.49               2
Total PTP XI                                           1914      5.855      2.590      1,996      2.238        -        14,593       35.16               26
C. Technical Assistance
IBRD contribution                                     595      1,034      1,254        662         80       -         3,625         8.74                6
GOI contribution                                       256       475        660        278        -          -        1.669         4.02                3
Total Technical Assistance                               851      1.509     1.914        940         80        -        5.294        12.76                9
D. Total Sources of Finsace                                9,072    14,102    14,464       8.437      7.944      1,591      55.610       134.00             100
of which:  IBRD Loan                                   3,771      7,181     7,779      3,643      3,617        984     26,975        65.00               48
GOI Credit Funds                             779        788     1,224      1,344      1,077        522      5,734        13.82               10
GOI MomCredit Fods                           94       1,132       916        578        182         85      3,887         9.36                7
GOI Equity                                 2,247      1,619     2,695        -          -          -        6,561        15.81               12
on  Loam (PTF I                              350      1.098       -          -          -          -        1.448         3.49                3
Total 001 Contribution                                 4,370     4.637      4.835      1,922      1.259        607     17.630        42.48               32
PNP X  Ovn Funds                             509        881       484      1,040      1,000        -        3,914         9.43                7
PTP XI Own Funds                             422      1.403     1,366      1.832      2,068        -        7.,91        17.09               13
Total PNP/PTP Own Funds                                  931     2,284      1850       2.872     3.068        -        11005         26.52               20



- 34 -
C. Project Financing Arrangements
3.37      The proposed Bank loan of US$65 million would finance for the first five
years of project implementation 48% of total project costs. Bank loan finance
for smallholder development and technical assistance would be about US$30
million while US$35 million would finance the expansion and development plans
of the public sector estate components. GOI would finance about US$42.5
millio- of the proposed project (32% of total costs) while the remainder of
project costs, about US$26.5 million, would be financed from the internally
generated funds of the PNP X and PTP XI estates. Sources for all project
finance are detailed in Table 8.
3.38      Smallholder Components.  The Aceh and South Sumatera smallholder
settlement components would be financed from both Bank and GOI sources (US$40.9
million). Non-credit items to smallholders including village infrastructure,
main access and village roads, and health services would be financed entirely
from GOI annual budget sources and INPRES programs (US$5.3 million). The flow
of funds for non-credit items of expenditure is shown in Chart 7. Credit
items of smallholder development costs (US$35.5 million), including rubber and
subsistence crop development and settler housing would be financed by the Bank
(US$21.7 million) and from GOI's Dana Rekening Investasi or similar sources
of finance in the Ministry of Finance. Bank and GOI finance for credit items
to smallholders would be passed by Bank Indonesia through BRI, acting as the
handling bank, to the PNP/PTP nucleus estates on the basis of a Financing
Agreement between the three parties. GOI would bear the risk on all funds
passed to the PNP/PTPs for smallholder development. PNP/PTPs would develop
each area of block planted rubber through Year 3, at which time development
expenditures made by the PNP/PTPs would be translated into standardized credit
amounts for individual settlers in credit agreements with the BRI. The
completion of satisfactory Financing Agreements between Bank Indonesia, BRI,
and the PNP/PTPs for Aceh and Tebenan smallholder development would be condi-
tions of disbursement for these project components. The flow of funds for
credit items of expenditure is shown in Chart 6. Loans to the smallholders
would be for 19 years including four years grace period, repayment starting in
the seventh year after planting and four years after signing of the smallholders
credit agreements. Interest would be at 12% per annum with capitalization of
interest in the first four years (i.e. grace period).
3.39      Estate Components
t)  PNP X.  The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$20 million) for
development of the Betung Estate and expansion of the rehabil-
itation program at Lampung will be on-lent by Bank Indonesia
to PNP X under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The loan will be for 20
years inclt ing eight years grace and repayable in 24 equal semiannual
annuities s arting January 1, 1985. The interest will be 15% per
annum and w 91, be accrued from January 1, 1981 to January 1, 1985.
The existing Subsidiary Loan Agreement for Credit 319-IND will be
amended to substantially conform to the terms and conditions of the



- 35 -
proposed loan. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
GOI's contribution to PNP X (US$15.8 million) will be in the form of
equity to be provided annually on the basis of budgets submitted
six months prior to the start of each fiscal year. The remainder of
project costs would be financed from internally generated funds of
PNP X (US$9.43 million). In order to secure the availability of
internally generated funds from PNP X for its investment program,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that PNP X will be exempt
from dividend payments to June 1983 and will be reimbursed for fin-
ancial obligations to the Government until December 31, 1983.
(ii) PTP XI. The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$14.6 million) for the
rehabilitation and replanting program of PTP XI, will be on-lent by
Bank Indonesia to PTP XI under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement at 15%.
Interest will be waived until January 1, 1981 and capitalized there-
after to January 1, 1985 at the first repayment. Repayment will be
in 14 equal semiannual annuities starting in 1985. Externally
required funds for PTP XI are concentrated in 1977-1979 while procure-
ment of goods and services abroad extends until 1981. Although Bank
finance for PTP XI is equivalent to about 87% of the foreign exchange
costs of the project, there is a need in the early years of the
project to finance local costs of the investment program. It is
proposed that the Bank will finance in 1977 and 1978, 70% of
the local cost of housing and processing facilities in addition to
the foreign exchange costs of agrochemicals, transportation, and
agricultural equipment and the cost of expatriate advisors. The
equivalent of local cost requirements will be about 83% financed
from internally generated funds of PTP XI (US$17.1 million). During
negotiations assurances were obtained that the remainder ($3.5
million) would be financed by a loan from the Government on the same
terms and conditions as the on-lent Bank loan, and that PTP XI will
be exempt from dividend payments until June 1983 and will be re-
imbursed for financial obligations to the Government during the
period of project implementation (1977-1981).
The entering into of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Bank Indonesia and
PNP X and PTP XI, respectively, will be conditions of disbursement of the
Bank loan to each of these estate development components.
3.40      The Bank loan of US$65 million will be lent to Government
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the prevailing interest rate on
the date of circulation of the President's Report to the Executive Directors.
D. Budgeting
3.41      Categories of investment for the smallholder components which
require GOI budget funds include all non-credit items (e.g. village infra-
structure, main access and village roads, etc.).  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that budget funds from APBN, APBD, Inpres, or if these were insuf-
ficient, other GOI sources will be sufficient for all non-credit expenditures



- 36 -
during project implementation and that the Provincial Coordinating Committees
will submit annual budgets for non-credit expenditures six months prior to the
start of each fiscal year.    The DGE would be responsible for making annual
DIP budget requests to the Central Government including allocations from Bina
Marga and the Department of Health (para. 4.08). Since most of the finance
for non-credit items would come from Inpres sources, the Chairman of Bappeda
would secure these financial requirements with the Provincial Government
(para. 4.12). This responsibility would include coordination of finance from
the Kabupaten Inpres for roads, the Inpres Sekolah for school facilities, the
Puskesmas Inpres for the village health program and Gotong Royong for village
infrastructure. The Chairman of Bappeda and the DGE would review all annual
budget appropriations to coordinate non-credit development activities with
the rubber development as carried out by nucleus estate contractors. Bank
supervision missions would review with Government the annual budget alloca-
tions and work programs of GOI agencies participating in the implementation
of the project.
E. Procurement
3.42      Smallholder Components.  GOI would finance 100% of all non-credit
categories of investment for the Aceh and South Sumatera smallholder components
(US$3.1 million and US$2.3 million, respectively). The standards for roads,
civil works and equipment would be set by the present GOI regulations for
health, schools, and roads as maintained in the existing Inpres regulations.
In cases where costs or standards required for the project exceed the limits
of the present Inpres regulations, Inpres sources would be supplemented by APBD
and APBN funds. GOI has indicated that in the event the provincial govern-
ments are not capable of fully carrying out the village and social development,
the PNP/PTP nucleus estates would be provided with additional funds from the
Ministry of Finance to carry out these responsibilities. Procurement guidelines
for the nucleus estates, PTP V at Aceh and PNP X at Tebenan in the credit
categories of investment would be as follows:
(a) Rubber Development (US$21.7 million). Block planting of 7,000 ha
of rubber at Aceh and 4,500 ha at South Sumatera and maintenance
for up to three years would be carried out under the terms of the
Financing Agreements between Bank Indonesia, the BRI, and PTP V and
PNP X respectively, since it involves the execution of a specialized,
integrated service which cannot be procured through a competitive
bidding process. The estate operations of PTP V and PNP X have
demonstrated their ability to carry out such a contract in a cost-
effective manner. Unit cost information on both estates is well
established and will be used to monitor financial requirements and
guarantee quality control. Supplies paid in local currency for the
execution of the contract would be procured in accordance with
current GOI procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Agro-
chemicals (US$7.3 million), including fertilizer for the first year
of subsistence crop development, also procured by PTP V and PNP X,
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines on procurement.  Agro-
chemicals costing less than US$100,000 would be procured following
prudent shopping procedures with at least three quotations.



- 37 -
Subsistence cash payments (US$0.3) have been costed at US$36 per farm
family entering the project. Cash payments would be made by the
nucleus estates to families approved for settlement by the Project
Manager and Provincial Coordinating Committee. Head office overheads,
and field overheads as part of the rubber development costs (US$2.9
million) would be payable to PTP V and PNP X at the rate of 15% of
the direct expenditures made for rubber development and machinery and
equipment. PTP V and PNP X would be allowed to draw on the loan
funds for these overheads only at the end of each year based on DGE
approval, within three months after the end of the fiscal year, of
satisfactory performance of clearing and planting. Accounts would be
maintained by the PNP/PTPs, satisfactory to the Bank, of all develop-
ment expenditures (para. 3.50).
(b) Agricultural Machinery, Vehicles, and Equipment (US$3.7 million).
All agricultural machinery for rubber development, vehicles, and
other road equipment would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of the imported goods
or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. However,
procurement under contracts of less than US$50,000 would be met
through prudent shopping involving the solicitation of at least
three quotations. The total procured in this manner would be
limited to the equivalent of US$250,000 for each nucleus estate.
A statement would be provided at negotiations from the Minister of
Trade that vehicles imported under the proposed project would be
exempt from existing import restrictions.
(c) Civil Works (US$6.7 million). The civil works as part of the credit
component of the project, including construction of housing (US$6.3
million), estate workshops and garages (US$0.2 million) and construc-
tion of farm roads (US$0.2 million) would be carried out as part of
the Financing Agreements between Bank Indonesia, the BRI and PTP V
and PNP X respectively, similar to the arrangements for rubber develop-
ment. Settler housing costing about US$500 (constant 1976 dollars)
for each family would be constructed on standards including the
following: (i) a core house with minimum area of 30.25 sq m;
(ii) contiguous verandah of 13.75 sq m at minimum; and (iii) timber
framed construction with a clay tile double pitched roof. The civil
works cost of road development undertaken by the estates would be
based on established design for primary estate roads (6 m wide, 10 cm
gravel and 3 cm sand), secondary farm roads (4 m wide with 3 cm sand)
and farm tracks (3 m wide with no gravel or sand) as outlined in
Project Files, Annex 1, Bi, Table 4.1.
3.43      Estate Development Components.  Procurement as specified for the
estate development programs of PNP X and PTP XI would be as follows:



- 38 -
(a) Agricultural and Processing Plant Machinery, Vehicles and Equipment
(US$23.8 million). All agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment
(US$1.8 million for PNP X and US$3.0 million for PTP XI) and all
processing plant machinery and equipment (US$15.3 million for PNP X
and US$3.2 million for PTP XI) would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of the imported goods
or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. All office equipment
(US$0.5 million) and procurement for contracts of less than US$50,000
could be locally procured through prudent shopping involving the
solicitation of at least three quotations.
(b) Agrochemicals (US$9.7 million). International competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines would be used for fertili-
zers and chemicals (US$4.9 million for PNP X and US$4.8 million for
PTP XI). Locally procured fertilizer (Pusri) would, however, be
financed by local currency. Small lots of chemicals costing less
than US$100,000 would be procured following prudent shopping proce-
dures with at least three quotations.
(c) Civil Works (US$14.1 million). All civil works contracts for housing
for PNP X (US$7.0 million) and for housing for PTP XI (US$7.1 million)
would be awarded after local competitive bidding among prequalified
contractors in accordance with GOI procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Consultant specialists (see (d) below) would provide
recommendations on bid evaluations in cases of local procurement.
(d) Consultant Specialists and Inspection Services (US$2.9 million).
Consultant specialists specifically employed for PNP X (US$1.0
million) and for PTP XI (US$1.9 million) would be engaged in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Uses of Consultants on
terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
The executive assistants to the Managing Directors of both estate groups and
the consultant specialists would assist in the preparation of procurement and
bidding documents, including specifications, and participate in the evaluation
of bids. All procurement would be closely coordinated with the procurement
officers in the MOA Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises (para. 3.04 (b)).
3.44      Consultants and Technical Services (US$7.9 million). Consultants
and technical services in the proposed project are detailed in para. 3.04.
Consultants would be engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
on terms and conditions approved by the Bank. Internationally recruited
consultants have been costed at US$70,000 per man-year (including interna-
tional travel, housing allowances and local transportation) on the basis of
past experience in Indonesia (Annex 1, C4).
3.45      Retroactive Financing.  Funds are required to prefinance certain
investment expenditures in the proposed project, similar to arrangements made



- 39 -
for Credit 319-IND (PNP X, Phase I project). Investments required in advance
of the project are mainly for nursery development, but include some land
clearing, rehabilitation expenditures and factory and transport equipment costs.
Given the importance of_these expenditures to timely project initiation, docu-
mentary evidence of the provision of funds for prefinancing nursery and land
development works were preconditions to negotiations. Table 9 summarizes in-
vestment items requiring prefinance.
Table 9: SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT ITEMS FOR PREFINANCE
Estate                     Category                     Area       Estimated Cost
(ha)       (Rp Million)
PNP X           Nursery smallholder development            20             44
PNP X           Nursery oil palm                           40             90
Subtotal                                                               134
PTP XI          Nursery rubber/coconut                     32             50
PTP XI          Land clearing/rubber                      707            239
PTP XI          Rehabilitation program                10,000             305
PTP XI          Factory and transport equipment            -             100
Subtotal                                                            694
PTP V           Nursery smallholder development            30             50
Total                                                                878
GOI has requested retroactive financing estimated at about Rp 500 million
(US$1.2 million) or the foreign exchange costs of the above items. GOI
has agreed to present a schedule of project expenditures from December 1, 1976
in support of the request for retroactive financing prior to loan signing.
Bank staff have reviewed the procurement procedures followed by GOI for all
items requiring retroactive finance and have ensured that they are acceptable
to the Bank. Financing of these expenditures under the project is recommended.
F. Disbursement
3.46      An estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 10.
Disbursement for the Aceh and South Sumatera smallholder components would be
as follows:



- 40 -
(a) Civil works consisting of housing, estate workshops, garages, and
farm roads at the rate of 50Z;
(b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and
equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured
locally and 65% for equipment procured locally on the basis of
contracts awarded after international competitive bidding. Disburse-
ments for the cost of a few vehicles procured locally for project
start-up on the basis of prudent shopping (para. 3.42 b) would be
at the rate of 40%;
(c) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of agrochemicals;
(d) rubber development expenditures other than agrochemicals or vehicles
and equipment procured under (b) or (c) by PTP V and PNP X at the rate
of 50% against certified quarterly reports of the nucleus estate.
3.47      Disbursement for the PNP X and PTP XI estate components would be
as follows:
(a) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of agrochemicals (except urea);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures of agricultural machinery, vehicles and
equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured
locally, and 65% of imported farm equipment procured locally on the
basis of contracts awarded after international competitive bidding.
Disbursements for the cost of a few vehicles procured locally for
project start-up on the basis of prudent shopping (para. 3.43 a)
would be at the rate of 40%;
(c) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of processing plant equipment, or
80% of the cost if procured locally after local competitive bidding;
(d)  70% of civil works cost for processing plants at PTP XI, 40% for
housing for PNP X, and 70% for housing for PTP XI for expenditures
made after the signing of the Loan Agreement up to December 31, 1979;
and
(e) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of consultant and inspection
services.
3.48      Disbursement for consultants and technical assistance to the MOA, DGE,
and Estates Training Institute (LPP):
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of all consultant specialists,
inspection and technical services, 100% of local consultants fees, and
100% of to-1 expenditure of overseas training for LPP including
travel, sul istence and fees.
Any savings from the eroject would be made available for financing additional
works. Documents to support claims for rubber development expenditures and force
account work not submitted for reimbursement would be retained in Indonesia



- 41 -
Table 10: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Quarter            Quarterly             Cumulative               % of
Year     Ending:            Disbursement          Disbursement          Total Loan
---------- US$ million ---------
1977     December               1.5                     1.5                   2
1978     March                  5.0                     6.5                 10
June                   6.0                   12.5                  19
September              5.5                   18.0                  28
December               4.5                   22.5                  35
1979     March                  4.0                   26.5                  41
June                   4.5                   31.0                  48
September              4.5                   35.5                  55
December               5.0                   40.5                  62
1980     March                  5.0                   45.5                  70
June                   3.5                   49.0                  75
September              3.0                   52.0                  80
December               2.5                   54.5                  84
1981     March                  2.0                   56.5                  87
June                   1.5                   58.0                  89
September              1.5                   59.5                  92
December               1.5                   61.0                  94
1982     March                   1.5                  62.5                  96
June                   1.5                   64.0                  98
September              1.0                   65.0                 100
Closing Date: December 1982.



- 42 -
and made available for inspection and review by Bank supervision missions.
It is expected that disbursements would be completed within five years from
loan effectiveness.
G. Quality and Cost Controls
3.49      Rubber development, civil works, and village development in settle-
ment components would require quality and cost control on a regular basis.
For village development and non-credit civil works, this function would be
carried out by the Project Manager and the Provincial Coordinating Committee
and reviewed by the DGE. Rubber development, housing and other civil works
carried out by the nucleus estates on a credit basis would be checked for
quality and cost control by the DGE staff assisted by the technical advisors
appointed under the project as set by their agreed standards. Certification
of satisfactory completion of each year's development objectives for blocks of
rubber would be made by the DGE as a condition to making payments for head
office and field overheads to the nucleus estate PNP/PTPs. As in Credit
319-IND PNP Xs rubber and oil palm plantings in the proposed project and the
rubber and coconut plantings of PTP XI would be subject to quality inspection
by independent consulting organizations employed by the MOA (para. 4.17). In
addition, specialists would be recruited by PNP X for three years and PTP XI
for four years in field management, budgeting and cost control (para. 4.16,
4.18). To ensure that PNP X and PTP XI are able to fully implement their
development and expansion programs, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that PNP X and PTP XI will not be burdened with additional management costs
nor with financial obligations not directly related to the project unless
otherwise agreed. Ongoing projects at PNP X outside rubber and oil palm will
not entail more than Rp 250 million per year and will be funded separately
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
H. Accounting and Auditing
3.50      Settlement Components.  The responsible agencies in the Provin-
cial Government in cooperation with the on-site project managers for Aceh and
South Sumatera will be required to keep accounts of expenditures made under
the Inpres program, APBN and APBD funds for the noncredit categories of
investment based on existing regulations. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the nucleus estates in coordination with the BRI will keep
separate accounts of all credit expenditures by year of planting. The DGE,
assisted by its technical advisors provided under the project, will keep
project accounts and consolidated statements of credit and non-credit expendi-
tures made under the project. These accounts will be in a form acceptable to
the Bank and furnished as part of a quarterly project report by the DGE to the
Bank within 30 days of the close of a quarter. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that these accounts, both separate and consolidated, will be
audited by the State Auditor yearly and the audit will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The Bank will
reserve the right to request an audit from auditors other than the State
Auditors and acceptable to the Bank of either accounts maintained by the
nucleus estate PNP/PTP or project accounts of the DGE if the State Auditors
prove to be unable to submit audits in time or in a form similar to that



- 43 -
agreed between the DGE and the Bank. The BRI, following its normal procedures
of accounts and audit, will report to the DGE on expenditures made by the
PNP/PTPs in the quarterly reporting process.
3.51      Estate Components.  A uniform accounting system has been introduced
in all PNP/PTPs. The system has been designed by consultants who were
partially financed by the Bank in several estates projects. PNP X and PTP XI
will be required to submit to the Bank annual audited reports of accounts as
carried out by independent private auditors within six months of the close of
the fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Given that the Bank has made no previous loan or credit to PTP XI, and that
PTP XI's accounts have not been consistently maintained, a condition of
disbursement for the Bank loan will be that independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank will be appointed. In order to facilitiate further monitoring and
supervision of PNP X and PTP XI, assurances were obtained that PNP X and
PTP XI will submit annual budgets and five-year forecasts each year to the
Bank for review and comment before final approval by the respective Boards of
Directors.
I. Rent and Cost Recovery
3.52      Credit Delivery System.  Project finance and the flow of funds in the
credit delivery system have been described in para. 3.38. Credit delivery in
the proposed project is simplified with all credit expenditures in Years 1-3
incurred by the nucleus estate PNP/PTPs for which accounts would be maintained
by PNP/PTPs and the BRI (para. 3.50). Credit agreements between farmers and the
BRI at the end of Year 3 would include provisional estimates of total credit
and would be amended in Year 6 to include the actual funds to farmers for the
costs of establishing rubber to full maturity. The full, unconditional title
to 5 ha of land, Hak Milik, received at the end of Year 3 by each settler family
would be pledged as collateral with the BRI to secure repayment obligations.
3.53      Cost Recovery.  GOI has expressed its desire for a flexible cost
recovery system with settlers' repayments made "in kind". Settlers' loan
accounts would be standardized and expressed in financial terms while repayments
would be made in numbers of kg dry rubber collected weekly by the PNP/PTP
rubber processors. The total number of kg to be delivered would initially be
fixed to the loan amount as if calculated on a normal amortization schedule.
The system would be flexible, however, so that the number of kg delivered
could be adjusted to reflect possible adverse or favorable rubber price
changes on settlers' income. Although settlers would be required to deliver a
predetermined portion of their production for debt service to the PNP/PTP
collection agents, settlers would be free to sell their remaining production
to any processor. A price formula would be set for rubber sold for debt-
service during project implementation, to be agreed by the PNP/PTPs, the
Provincial Coordinating Committee and the DGE in consultation with the Bank.
The price received for this rubber is estimated at about 70% of the fob value
which would cover PNP/PTP processing, marketing, collection, and overhead
charges (para. 5.07). PNP/PTPs would have the incentive to collect this por-
tion of settler's rubber in order to reduce their own overhead and processing
costs. The PNP/PTPs would keep all records of rubber received per settler along



- 44 -
with daily records of rubber prices. Records and revenue from the PNP/PTP
would be sent to the BRI weekly for which accounts would be closed monthly or
quarterly by converting the net amount of rubber collected at the prevailing
fob prices minus 30% (estimated factory and overhead costs).
3.54      Interest and financial charges are to be simplified in the flexible
cost recovery system. Bank Indonesia and BRI would split the receipt of
0.5% handling fees on the outstanding balance of all farm accounts per annum.
The quantity of rubber to be collected would be based on the loan amounts as
if calculated at 12% on terms of 21 years repayment with interest waived
until the end of year 3 and capitalized from the time of loan transfer from
PNP/PTPs to individual smallholder accounts, or from year 4 to 7. On this
basis farm income statements show that the entire loan amount estimated at Rp
2.12 million (Rp 2.58 million with interest capitalized at 12%) in current
terms would be repaid with 25% of yearly rubber production, or 9,650 kg col-
lected from smallholders from year 7-21. The repayment schedule would begin in
year 7 with 150 kg per year or 3 kg per week and rise to 750 kg per year or 14
kg per week at full development in year 13 and continue for 7 years at this
level of recovery.
3.55      Ability to Repay.  Farmers having 2 ha of rubber and 3 ha of subsist-
ence food crop area would have net incomes of about US$800 (constant 1976 $)
at full development after cost recovery as described in para. 3.53 (Annex 1,
Cl, Tables 1.2, 1.4). Farmers' deliveries of 25% of rubber production for
debt service would be equivalent to about 25% of net farm income after taxes.
No particular risks are associated with recovery at 25% of rubber production
since adjustment for adverse price effects in the kg of rubber to be delivered
would be immediate, thereby extending the repayment period to full recovery.
Similarly, increases in the price of rubber above those forecast would permit
recovery prior to 15 years. Farm families are not likely to have any particular
problems with depressed cash incomes after repayment. When a subsistence
allowance of US$420 for a family of five is charged against the net income of
US$800 in 1995, farm families would have net cash incomes of US$380, sufficient
for replanting or new planting of rubber, or other on-farm investments.
3.56      Willingness to Repay.  There are few examples in Indonesia to test
the willingness of tree crop farmers to pay reasonable levels of project charges.
The BRI has had little experience in lending for smallholder tree-crop develop-
ment. In the Smallholder Rubber Project in North Sumatera (Credit 358-IND),
for which BRI is responsible for cost recovery, repayment periods have yet to
begin and hence, there is no indication of smallholder willingness to pay. It
is considered that there would be no on-farm constraints in the proposed project
to interfere with smallholder repayment obligations since smallholders would
receive rubber areas that had been properly established and brought to maturity
to secure yields and incomes as projected.
3.57      It is assumed that recovery of credit in the proposed project would
be high since most settlers would want to sell all of their dry rubber produc-
tion to the PNP/PTP processor. The value received by smallholders on kg rubber
delivered for all farm production minus the deductions for debt service would
be about 70% higher than the value received if smallholders were to avoid



- 45 -
Table 11: RENT AND COST RECOVERY
(Constant 1976 Rp '000) /a
Project    Project    Total Project
Year 9     Year 15       Year 7-21
1985        1991        1985-2001
1.  Gross value of farm production         235.3       159.5         2,446.9
2.  Other income /b                          -           -              57.3
3.  Subtotal                               235.3       159.5         2,504.2
4.  Less:  Production (cash) costs          31.1        18.5           329.7
5.  Equals net cash income                 204.2       141.0         2,174.5
6.  Less:  Depreciation /c                    3.7        1.9            43.2
7.  Less:  Imputed value of family
labor /d                         63.0        32.0           715.5
8.  Less:  Allowance for risk/
uncertainty /e                   35.2        23.8           367.6
9.  Less:  General taxes /f                  -           -                -
10.  Equals project rent                     102.3        83.3        1,048.2
11.  Rent as % of net cash income             50         59               48
12.  Debt recovery /g                         42.0       29.3           435.9
13.  Benefit taxes (IPEDA)                     8.9         6.2            95.5
14.  Total direct recovery/taxes              50.9        35.5          531.4
15. Rent recovery index (%)
(14 r 10)                               50          43              51
16.  Public sector outlays /h                  -          -           1,580.1
17.  Cost recovery index (%)
(14 ; 16)                                -           -              34
18.  Farmers income per capita                55.4       70.5              -
19. Estimated critical consumption
level (CCL) /i                        52.1        58.6
20. Estimated national per capita
income in the project area /i        104.2       117.3
/a  All values in lines 1-17 discounted at 12% p.a.; all values in lines
1-14 represent the repayment period of years 7-21.
/b Earned in year 7 in off-farm employment.
/c Only on fixed assets owned by farm family; house depreciated over 20
years.
/d Equal to family MSL of Rp 175,000.
/e 15% of the gross value of production.
/f No general tax, IPEDA considered as income or benefit tax.
/g Debt service on loan amount of Rp 1.7 million or Rp 2.1 million with
capitalized interest after year 4 on flexible repayment system of 25%
of yearly rubber production for 15 years equal to 15 years repayment
with 7 years grace and interest of 12%.
/h  Rp 2.0 million per farm family (constant 1976 Rp) discounted by 12%,
equalling Rp 1.6 million per farm family.
/i Valued at 1/2 of National per capita income.
/i If per capita incomes grow by 2% per annum in real terms.



- 46 -
repayment and deliver 100% of their production to other processors. Prices
received by smallholders in Sumatera for dry rubber are rarely above 40% of
the f.o.b. price.
3.58      Rent and Cost Recovery Indices.  Table 11 presents the rent and cost
recovery indices for project rubber smallholders. All figures are in terms of
late 1976 constant prices and in present values, discounted at the opportunity
cost of capital in Indonesia of 12% over the period of payment to project
year 21.
3.59      GOI policy for nucleus estate and smallholder projects includes:
(a) the decision to limit investment cost to 2 ha of rubber with 3 ha of
subsistence crops, owing to the tight budget constraints of Government and
the need to benefit as large a number of rural poor as possible on limited
budget funds; (b) the decision to allocate the majority of project costs as
credit items to be recovered from project beneficiaries (the credit/non-credit
mix weighs heavily on credit amounting to US$4,016 constant 1976, or 80% of
project costs per farm family, US$4,882); and (c) assurance that farm families
receive net incomes of about US$800 at full development.
3.60      An investment cost limited to 2 ha of rubber provides sufficient
project rent to allow beneficiaries to pay for project costs. Project rent,
net of all costs of family labor, depreciation, and an allowance for risk,
is about 50% of net income. The project's target income objectives, however,
may not be well correlated with cost recovery objectives. Repayment terms
have been fixed to provide farm families with about US$800 at full development,
and although 100% of the credit costs are recovered in current terms, the
discounted value of debt recovery is only 28% of the discounted value of the
investment costs. When benefit taxes are included as part of cost recovery,
the ratio of cost recovery is about 34%.
3.61      Although there is sufficient scope for more recovery as measured in
the rent recovery index of 51%, there are relatively few alternatives within
GOI policy to increase recovery and reduce GOI subsidy. Assuming that most
prices in Indonesia correctly reflect their value of scarcity, taxation might
be used as a means to achieving greater recovery. Increased IPEDA taxes or
land tax, however, would not be justifiable since prospective settlers at
full development would still be close to the level of critical consumption
estimated at 50% of expected national per capita income. On this basis,
prospective settlers are close to an assumed tax exempt status. Although
there is discrepancy as to the appropriate interest rate for Indonesia, any
increase in the interest rate above 12% to increase cost recovery and elimi-
nate interest subsidy would not be feasible as it would provide settlers with
incomes below US$800, a minimum income in the project area for farm families
to remain on their holdings in relation to alternative employment and provide
them with sufficient resources for replanting or new planting of rubber. Re-
duction of grant elements in the project such as schools, roads, and social
services, would not be advisable and these have been considered as minimum cost
items for new settlement areas. With experience gained in project implemen-
tation, cost savings in village infrastructure and social services may result



- 47 -
in reduced subsidy for other settlement projects. Even with less interest sub-
sidy or grant allocations in social services, cost recovery is likely to be
low in most tree crop projects which require long grace and repayment periods.
Income objectives are less in conflict if recovery of export taxes derived
from increased rubber production from the smallholder components is considered
as benefit taxes and part of the total recovery. On this basis, the proposed
project would have a cost recovery index of 52%.
IV. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
4.01      The project would be implemented by existing central and provincial
government agencies. The organization of these agencies is outlined in
para. 1.13. The agencies executing the public sector estates components are
directly responsible to the Ministry of Agriculture in Jakarta. Overall respon-
sibility for implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the two new settlement
components of the project would rest with the Director General of Estates in
Jakarta. The Provincial Government would implement those activities (area infra-
structure programs) for which funds are provided through the Provincial Government
budget. The latter action represents a delegation of much more responsibility to
the Provincial Government than in previous projects and is consistent with the
GOI objective of involving Provincial Governments in area development.
4.02      Several major components of the settlement projects, food cropping
activities, provision of infrastructure and social facilities are complementary
and interdependent. The Provincial Governor has responsibility for coordina-
tion of these operations and special coordinating arrangements at provincial
level are therefore not necessary.
B. Legal Framework
4.03      The provincial governors of Aceh and South Sumatera following agree-
ment with the Department of Home Affairs are empowered to alienate the future
settlement areas at Alue Iemerah and Tebenan. A condition of negotiations was
the alienation of the areas described in para. 2.17 (a) and (b).
4.04      With regard to the estates components, the MOA Support Staff were
appointed under the Decree of the Minister of Agriculture No. 129/Kpts/Op/3/
1976 with duties stipulated in the Ministerial Instruction No. 04/Ins/OP/3/
1975. These appointments are in the nature of a temporary assignment until
further action is taken by GOI. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that necessary measures will be taken to establish the MOA Support Staff on
a permanent basis or to make alternative arrangements in consultation with the
Bank.
4.05      PNP X will be converted to PTP status by June 1, 1978 and assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



- 48 -
C. Borrowing/Executing Agency Functions
4.06      The Borrower for both settlement and estate components would be
the Government of Indonesia. The proceeds of the Bank loan for estate develop-
ment components would be on-lent to PNP X and PTP XI under separate Subsidiary
Agreements. Finance from the Borrower through the BRI acting as a handling
bank, to PNP X and PTP V for smallholder development at Tebenan and Aceh would
be governed by two separate Financing Agreements between Bank Indonesia, BRI
and the respective PNP/PTP. After completing development in Year 3 for each
group of smallholders, expenditures incurred by the nucleus estate would be
translated into standardized loan amounts for individual credit agreements
between the BRI and smallholders. BRI would act as the fiscal agent and
handling bank for recovery on behalf of the Borrower, but the nucleus estate
rubber processor would carry out the direct loan recovery from smallholders.
Settlement Projects
4.07      Directorate General of Estates (DGE).  On the basis of experience
with existing smallholder tree crop projects, it is considered essential that
overall responsibility for settlement, implementation and management be located
in Jakarta, where a centralized body can more readily utilize the technical
and managerial resources available, organize project financing and monitor and
evaluate project quality and design standards. These responsibilities would be
vested in the appropriate line agency, the DGE. The organization of the DGE is
shown in Chart 3. Given some technical assistance, the DGE would increase its
capacity to plan, coordinate and oversee the settlement project operations.
The DGE does not have the capacity however to implement a large program of
land clearing, tree crop establishment, maintenance and infrastructure. Under
present conditions and arrangements, and in the particular settlement areas,
these functions would best be fulfilled by nucleus estates and in the case of
infrastructure by the Provincial Government agencies.. Institution building
would aim at developing the management expertise within the DGE to guide, plan,
direct and evaluate the activities of these nucleus estates and agencies.
The functions of the DGE would be:
(a) Project and village master planning; preparation of annual
work programs;
(b) Advice to the Project Manager (para 4.08) and Provincial Coordina-
ting Committees (para. 4.11) upon settler recruitment and selection
procedures, design and supervision of settler participation agreements,
crop processing and marketing arrangements;
(c) Approval of project budgets and coordination and organization
of project financing arrangements;
(d) Administration and advice on project procurement;
(e) Formulation and execution of contracts between the DGE and the
nucleus estates for rubber development and at a later date for
extension, processing, and marketing services;
(f) Project monitoring and evaluation in relation to guidelines to
be agreed in consultation with the Bank.



- 49 -
4.08      In carrying out these functions the DGE would coordinate its
activities with those of the Provincial Coordinating Committee. The
Director General of Estates would be represented at the project site by a
Project Manager with responsibility to the Director General for preparation
of action programs and budgets, supervision and coordination of all proj-
ect activities undertaken by nucleus estates and the Provincial Coordinating
Committee. The duties of the Project Manager would be:
(a) preparation of an action program, subject to the approval
of the DGE, for implementation of master plans, and annual
work programs;
(b) preparation of budgets for all functions other than rubber
development and functions for which Provincial Government agencies
are responsible;
(c) supervision and coordination of the implementation of
project and village master plans by the nucleus estate
and Provincial Government agencies;
(d) design and supervision of settler participation agreements,
land transfers, and allocation of house, food crop and
rubber areas;
(e) settler recruitment, selection and administration, and arrangements
for settler training; and
(f) monitoring and reporting on project progress to the DGE,
the Provincial Government and the Bank.
The Government has appointed a project manager experienced in smallholder agri-
culture for each of the settlement areas.
4.09      To strengthen the DGE, technical assistance will be provided for
a period of three years, through international recruitment of two specialists
in planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation (para. 3.04). These
specialists would be located at the headquarters of the DGE in Jakarta and
will assist with implementation of the two settlements financed under this
project and also with the ongoing and future development program of the DGE.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Bank will be consulted
upon the selection of these specialists and that their appointments will be
made by February 28, 1978 on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The Provincial Governments
4.10      Central government departments are represented at provincial level,
with responsibility to the Provincial Government. Organization of the Indonesian
Provincial Government system is shown in Chart 4. The Provincial Chairman of
Bappeda has been delegated the task by the Provincial Governor of coordinating



- 50 -
the operations of the government agencies involved in area development.
The Provincial Government operates through a hierarchy of regency, district and
village organizations. The Provincial Governor is also head of the BIMAS
program in the province. The Provincial Government can therefore perform a
vital role in overseeing project implementation and in protecting the best
interests of smallholders.
4.11      The organization for the settlement project components is shown
in Chart 5. The Chairman of Bappeda is responsible to the Provincial Governor
through a Provincial Coordinating Committee of which he would be Chairman.
The Provincial Coordinating Committee would be stationed in the provincial
capital where the headquarters of the provincial government agencies involved
in implementation of the project are located. In addition to the Chairman of
Bappeda, the Committee would comprise the head of the Dinas Perkebunan Daerah
as deputy chairman, the Project Manager, the Nucleus Estate Manager, and
representatives of the BRI, and provincial government agencies.
4.12      The functions of the Provincial Coordinating Committees of Aceh and
South Sumatera in implementation of the settlement projects would be:
(a) preparation of programs and budgets for implementation of
Provincial Government functions in accordance with a master
plan;
(b) coordination and monitoring the activities of the Provincial
Government agencies concerned with provision of village infra-
structure, main access and village roads, health, educational
and community facilities, and the implementation of food
cropping programs;
(c) advice and assistance to the respective Project Managers in
settler recruitment and administration; and
(d) determination from time to time of the rubber price to
be paid by the respective nucleus estates to participating
settlers in agreement with the nucleus estate.
The Nucleus Estate
4.13      The nucleus estates are PTP V and PNP X (para. 2.22).  It is important
that the nucleus estate has full authority to operate the resources, machinery,
material inputs and finance required to develop and hand over to the settler
potentially high yielding areas of three-year old rubber. Under terms and
conditions of a master contract with the DGE, PNP X would be responsible for
the following services in the Tebenan settlement area:
(a) For the period up to three years after planting. Clearing land
for planting rubber, construction of settler houses and water



- 51 -
supplies, rubber planting and maintenance, construction of rubber
area roads, and procurement and application of inputs for rubber
development and settler training.
(b)  For the period from three years after planting to production.
Procurement and application of inputs, maintenance of rubber
roads, settler training, particularly in rubber tapping, and
extension services.
(c)  During the production period.  Extension services, organization
of latex collection for cost recovery, and the provision of
comprehensive processing and marketing services.
In the Alue Iemerah, Aceh settlement area, however, PTP V would be responsible
for the services in (a) and (b) above. The services under (c) would be provided
by the neighboring PNP I nucleus estate following its rehabilitation planned
under the proposed Bank-assisted NES II Project. A condition of disbursement
would be that the nucleus estates would sign contracts with the DGE acceptable
to the Bank for provision of the above services.
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
4.14      A description of BRI and its role in the agricultural sector is
outlined in para. 1.16. BRI would act as the handling bank for the Government
to channel funds for rubber development to the nucleus estates contractor
(para. 3.38). BRI would also provide short-term credit to settlers for food
cropping through the BIMAS program. During the period of cost recovery by
the nucleus estate rubber processors, BRI would maintain settler loan accounts
on behalf of the Government (para. 3.53). The Government would bear all risks
in the credit delivery and cost recovery systems. For administration and
handling of settler loans, however, the BRI would split with Bank Indonesia
0.5% on the outstanding balance per annum on all smallholder credit funds
through the 21-year repayment period.
Estates Projects
4.15      Ministry of Agriculture.  In the previous IDA-financed estates
projects, technical assistance and estate staff training were concentrated
at PNP/PTP estate group level. As a result, much progress was made in these
particular groups, in terms of physical and technical achievement, but several
other groups not receiving such assistance remained backward. Technical
assistance should therefore be directed at the whole public sector estates
system. There is a need to devote much more attention to: (i) overall
development objectives and policies, and within these the formulation of
corporate business objectives for the PNP/PTPs, and improvement in financial
management and control; (ii) strengthening of marketing organizations; and
(iii) centralization of specialist advisory services in close liaison with
the recently reorganized research system. Accordingly, the major part of
the technical assistance under the project would be centralized in the MOA
Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises or its successor. MOA would have
as a major role policy formulation, coordination of estate group activities,
estate inspection, estate budget approval and control, and provision of



- 52 -
advice to the Boards of the PTPs and the Directorate for Government Limited
.4iability Companies (Directorate of PTPs) within the Ministry of Finance.
Technical assistance to the MOA Support Staff would therefore contribute
towards the efficient operation of the public sector estates system and
would have spread effects beyond the estate groups receiving immediate
financial assistance for investment programs. Priority would also be given
to setting up teams of experienced and fully qualified Indonesian staff for
inspection of all PNP/PTPs.
(a) MOA Support Staff for Agricultural Enterprises. The Minister
of Agriculture is the Chairman of the Shareholders Committee of
the Government-owned PTPs and has ultimate responsibility for
performance of the PNPs. The Support Staff would assist the
Minister in guidance, monitoring and evaluation of the operations
of the PNP/PTPs. The functions of the Support Staff would include:
(i) preparation of a policy action program for improvement in
efficiency of PNP/PTP operations not later than
December 31, 1977;
(ii) commencement of implementation of the action program agreed with
the Bank not later than July 1, 1978;
(iii) contracting with a qualified firm with appropriate experience
in public sector estates for the further development of the
information, accounting and budgeting systems recently estab-
lished by consultants;
(iv) organization of an estates inspection service for monitoring
and evaluation of the performance of all PNP/PTPs;
(v) supervision of the organization of large estate and DGE staff
training at the Estates Training Institute, Yogjakarta.
The Support Staff will be strengthened through international
recruitment of six specialists in estates operations for a period
of three years (para. 3.04). Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the qualifications and experience of the selected spe-
cialists will be satisfactory to the Bank and that their appointments
will be made on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the MOA will
contract as in (a)(iii) above.
(b) The Estates Training Institute. The Institute, the Lembaga Pendidikan
Perkebunan (LPP) is the successor of the State Sugar College, set up
originally in 1950 in Yogjakarta, Central Java. In 1970, the LPP was
established to deal with all estate commodities. The LPP presently
devotes about 50% of its time to sugar. The teaching load is much
too heavy, a wide range of subject matter being taught at several
different estate staff levels. The outcome is a dispersion of
teaching effort and inadequate attention to essential training in



- 53 -
agricultural business management and the latest techniques in crop
production and processing. Under the project the teaching program
would be re-oriented with emphasis on business management and
technical training. The Institute would expand its activities
(para. 3.04) and would be strengthened through international recruit-
ment of four training specialists for a period of three years. The
Director of the Institute would draw up and implement a new training
program assisted by these specialists. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the qualifications and experience of the
selected specialists will be satisfactory to the Bank and that
their appointments will be made on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
4.16      Management of PNP X and PTP XI.  The executive management of PNP
X (Direksi) would be responsible for implementation of the expansion program
of PNP X. The PNP would be assisted in this work for three years by three
internationally recruited specialists in (a) field management, (b) palm oil
processing, and (c) financial management. The Boards of Supervisors and
Management of PTP XI would be responsible for the rehabilitation and develop-
ment of PTP XI. The PTP XI management requires strengthening and will be assisted
by appointment of three internationally recruited specialists for PTP XI, in
(a) production, and (b) finance for four years; and (c) estate engineering/pro-
cessing for two years. The specialists in production and finance will be
operational assistants to the respective Directors for production and finance
for the first two years of the assignment and advisors thereafter. These
appointments will be conditions of disbursement for PNP X and PTP XI estate
development components. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Borrower ensure that before appointment is made to the position of member
of PNP X's Direksi (Executive Management), or to PTP XI's Direksi, that the
Bank will be informed of the names, qualifications, and persons considered
for appointment to such position. The Bank will also be informed of any
change in the supervisory board of PTP XI or the establishment of a super-
visory board at PNP X.
4.17      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the MOA Support
Staff will employ a firm of consultants acceptable to the Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to inspect the PNP X and PTP XI estates
with respect to quality control of field conditions, processing, housing,
infrastructure and finance up to the end of 1981.
4.18      Other assurances were given at negotiations to cause PNP X and PTP XI
to employ suitable specialists from time to time, as agreed with the Bank, to
assist the companies with engineering advice for processing, equipment, main-
tenance, procurement, and other short-term consultancy services including, in the
the case of PTP XI, coconut agronomy.
D. Aspects of Project Implementation
4.19      Settler Selection and Land Title.  Settlers would be selected on the
basis of criteria agreed with the Bank which give priority to landless farmers
in the project vicinity, but when these have been accommodated, would be extended



- 54 -
to transmigrants. Settlers would have some farm experience, be married,
between the ages of 20-40 years, in good health, with annual incomes of less
than Rp 120,000. The issue of Certificates of Hak Milik (right of ownership)
is made by the Directorate General of Agraria in the Ministry of Home Affairs
in Jakarta. Assurances were obtained that settlers will receive Certificates
of "conditional" Hak Milik for a five-hectare land area within three months of
entry to a settlement project as a prospective settler. The conditions will
be that the settler would work as a laborer in the rubber area developed by
the nucleus estate up to three years after rubber planting and that his
performance in this work is judged satisfactory by a Provincial Committee
responsible to the Governor. If such performance is satisfactory, the settler
will receive Certificate of "full" Hak Milik title without conditions. The
title would however be retained by BRI until the settler loan obligations had
been fulfilled. The issue of certificate of full Hak Milik requires a detailed
plot survey which is the responsibility of the provincial and district offices
of Agraria.
4.20      Settler Training in Rubber Management.  The nucleus estates would
give priority attention to training of settlers in rubber management, initially
during the settlers' period of employment as rubber laborers and later as
independent farmers. To ensure a high standard of rubber development, the
nucleus estate would be responsible for application of fertilizer until the
end of the immature nonproductive phase. The nucleus estate would also
operate a tapper training program.
4.21      Food Cropping Programs.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that GOI will extend the BIMAS programs to cover the food production acti-
vities of the settlers by June 30, 1978 and that an adequate number of BRI
mobile units will be established to serve each development area in Aceh and
South Sumatera at the commencement of the BIMAS program. During the first year
of a settler's residence, however, inputs for food crops will be supplied by
the nucleus estate, as part of the settler's credit package. In the event the
BIMAS program is not established in the first year of project implementation,
the PNP/PTP nucleus estates will continue to provide seed and fertilizer to
settlers for subsistence crop development.
4.22      Annual Work Programs.  Each agency involved in the implementation
of the project will prepare annual work programs which will set out in
detail their plan of project work for the year ahead, including the recruit-
ment and training of required personnel. Assurances were obtained from the
Government at negotiations that each agency will prepare a program by
September 30 of each year and submit such programs to the Bank for review and
comment.
4.23      Health and Nutrition.  Arrangements for the project's low cost
health delivery system would be the responsibility of the Director of
Development in each of the two settlement provinces, Tebenan and
Alue Iemerah, Aceh. Arrangements for primary medical care would be made
prior to the entry of the first group of settlers in each province. The
medical care would be operated under GOT standards for Repelita II and coord-
inated with higher level facilities of the administrative region. The



- 55 -
health system at Alue Iemerah would consist of one health center (Puskesmas),
7 village health posts for the 7 central villages and 14 first aid posts
for the satellite villages. At Tebenan, the health system would consist
of one health center, 4 village health pdsts, and 10 first aid stations.
The Director of Development for each settlement area would ensure malaria
control by the provincial health administration including supplies of
DDT, chloroquine, house spraying before settler arrival, and malariametric
surveys. Under the health component, mother and child health care, includ-
ing nutrition and family planning, and guidance by traditional midwives
would be provided. Distribution of food supplements would be through
the network of village health posts. The nutrition and food aid supple-
ments would be introduced predominantly for under-fives and lactating
women, based on 25% of the under-fives and 50% of lactating women expec-
ted to be initially identified as being in need of food supplements.
Hygiene and sanitation has been included in the project (para. 3.09) in
construction of wells and latrines.
E. The Environment
4.24      The vegetation in the areas for settlement is either jungle
or coarse lalang grass. The latter is an undesirable form of ground cover
in that soil fertility deteriorates where it is present. Rubber would
be introduced on the more strongly sloping areas where standard soil conser-
vation practices, the leguminous ground cover and the tree canopy would
prevent erosion and build up soil fertility. Food cropping would be confined
to flat and gently undulating lands. Fertility would be improved through
establishment of tree crops, crop rotation, fallowing and provision of adequate
inputs.
4.25      The new rubber factories and the new palm oil mill would occupy
a relatively small area and would not be sited in the vicinity of residential
areas. The appropriate national standards for the disposal of liquid effluent,
and to ensure the health and safety of factory employees would be met.
V. DEMAND AND MARKETING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Price Outlook for Natural Rubber
5.01      Demand and marketing forecasts for rubber are examined below.
5.02      Price Projections.  The short-term price outlook for natural rubber
appears to be quite favorable. Demand for all elastomers in 1977 is expected
to increase by 8-9%, and natural rubber consumption is expected to benefit
strongly from the overall increase in elastomer use. Consumption of natural
rubber in 1977 is expected to exceed production for the third consecutive



- 56 -
year, and market prices are projected to increase sharply above 1976 levels.
In terms of RSS I, c.i.f. New York, an 18% increase is expected over 1976.
A continued strong growth in natural rubber demand is expected to about 1980,
as the world economy continues to recover from the 1975 recession.
5.03      In the long run, the prices of natural rubber are constrained by
those of synthetic rubbers, particularly styrene butadiene rubber (SBR)
which is by far the most important type of synthetic rubber. The price of
natural rubber has to be such that it competes effectively with the available
synthetic substitutes, although in the short run it may diverge from this
trend. Natural rubber producers, with about 33% of the total market for
elastomers, are essentially price takers.
5.04      During the past ten years the prices of natural rubber have
moved between those of SBR - at the floor of all rubbers - and those of
polyisoprene - at the ceiling of the synthetic rubbers - which directly
compete with natural rubber. The long-term price of natural rubber is,
therefore, forecast on the basis of the expected future trends in the cost/
price of SBR which is taken as the floor below which natural rubber prices
cannot fall for any protracted period.
5.05      The projection of the likely future trend in the cost/price of SBR
is based on the study of the relationship between crude oil, basic chemicals
and manufacturing costs of this basic type of synthetic rubber. If one
assumes that crude oil prices will remain at $11.60 per barrel (in 1976 US$
terms) until 1980, SBR cost/prices should remain at around 35-40 US/lb (in
1976 US$ terms) in all the major developed producing countries. Correspond-
ingly, RSSI, c.i.f. New York, should be selling in 1980 at 40-45i/lb in 1976
constant dollar terms. In 1980 dollar terms, the price of natural rubber is
expected to be between 532/lb and 632/lb.
5.06      In the 1980s, in view of the relatively good demand outlook, the
price prospects of natural rubber appear to be favorable if one assumes that
crude oil prices will remain at present levels in constant dollar terms and
that no excessive expansion in production capacity of basic petrochemical
products will take place during the 1980s in oil producing countries. Any
drop in oil prices would make synthetic rubber feedstock cheaper and increase
the relative price competitiveness of general purpose synthetic rubbers.
Similarly, a large uncoordinated expansion of productive capacity for basic
petrochemicals in oil producing countries would increase the supply of these
products and - other things being equal - depress their prices. Lower prices
for the basic chemical inputs - that account for over 55% of total costs -
could again reduce the cost/price of general purpose synthetic rubbers and
pull down natural rubber prices. To take into account the possibility of
lower petrochemical prices in the 1980s, the long-run equilibrium price of
natural rubber is forecast to be around 40i/lb in 1976 constant dollar terms.
B. Smallholder Rubber Price
5.07      The price structure for smallholder rubber in Sumatera in and
around the proposed project areas is particularly difficult to trace given
the wide variation in the dry content of rubber received, the number of



- 57 -
processors and collection agents, and transportation problems from area to
area. The sequence of marketing is almost always from farm to collection
agent, either in receipt of latex or slab, and then to processor. The
variation in margins for middlemen in this procedure is from 5-10% of the fob
value of RSS I. Although farmers are not generally exploited in prices
received for their rubber, they could receive better prices than those
obtained with improvement in conditions of marketing their own rubber.
In the project area of Tebenan, South Sumatera, smallholder rubber farmers
have been receiving about 35 to 45% of the fob value for rubber, or about
Rp 140/kg drc based on 50% drc of slab. In the other smallholder project area
near Langsa, Aceh, smallholder rubber producers have been receiving a slightly
higher percentage of the fob price, about 40-50%, or Rp 155/kg drc. This
higher percentage is the result of greater competition of collection agents
in the area and the generally shorter distances required in transportation to
processors.
5.08      The difference in prices paid to smallholder producers under present
circumstances and those paid to smallholder producers under nucleus estate
collection and processing, excluding excessive processor profits and the
additional costs of middlemen, are shown in Project File tables, Annex 1,
R1, 9.1 and 9.2. On this latter basis, smallholder farmers could be paid about
70% of the fob value, or Rp 215/kg drc (1977), even when depreciation and the
cost of capital for processors is included in addition to the normal processing
and collection costs. GOI has indicated for the proposed project that
nucleus estate processors should collect rubber for smallholder repayment
obligations (para. 3.53) and all other rubber that project smallholders choose
to sell at a price about 70% of the fob value. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the borrower will cause the nucleus estate processors
to pay about 70% of the prevailing fob price for rubber produced by smallholder
project farmers, excluding cases of large variation in the dry rubber content
received, or significant reduction in the fob price, or significant changes in
processing or marketing charges of the nucleus estate processor.
C. Demand and Supply Outlook for Palm Oil and Coconut Oil in Indonesia
5.09      Coconuts have traditionally supplied the bulk of the vegetable
oils consumed in Indonesia. Yet, while Indonesia's population has grown
rapidly, coconut production has expanded only slowly, mainly because of
the increasing share of over-aged trees. Alarmed by the widening gap
between supply and demand for vegetable oils and the potential threat of
a drop in the earnings of coconut farmers, the Government has embarked
on an ambitious coconut replanting scheme and encouraged the expansion
of the acreage planted with oil palm.
5.10      Coconuts are largely a smallholder crop.  It is estimated that
more than one million smallholders produce slightly more than 99% of
Indonesia's coconut output; less than 1% is produced on coconut estates.
The bulk of the coconut production comes from the Other Islands. The govern-
ment plans to replant existing coconut trees with hybrids, which would raise
potential annual yields from a current average of 700 to 5,000 kg of copra per
hectare. However, because of the long gestation period of coconut trees, the
impact of this replanting program will not be felt until the late 1980s.



- 58 -
Coconut oils production in Indonesia (both kelentik oil and commercially
extracted coconut oil) is projected to increase from 530,000 tons in 1976 to
about 880,000 tons in 1990. This corresponds to an annual average growth rate
of 3.7%.
5.11      During the same period, the demand for vegetable oils is projec-
ted to grow at an average annual rate of 5.6% from 770,000 to 1.6 million
tons. This projection reflects the growth in per capita incomes, which
will raise per capita fats and oils consumption from about 5 kgs in 1976
to 9 kgs in 1990, and the overall increase in population. Although several
studies of the Indonesian fats and oils market found that consumers prefer
coconut oil over other fats and oils, these studies concluded also that
palm olein (the liquid portion of fractionated palm oil) blended or flavored
with coconut oil could fill the gap left by declining coconut oil supplies.
5.12      In Indonesia oil palms are largely an estate crop.  At present,
public sector estates account for about two-thirds of the output of oil
palm products (palm oil and palm kernels), the remaining third comes from
the private estates. Most of these estates are located in North Sumatera,
where soil and climatic conditions are suited ideally for oil palm culti-
vation. Since the early sixties palm oil production has grown at an
average rate of 7.7% a year. The combined output of palm oil and palm
kernel oil is estimated to reach 1.2 million tons by 1990. This projec-
tion has been based on the age distribution and planting material of exist-
ing oil palms and available information on the expected programs of the
public sector and private estates.
5.13      Indonesia presently exports approximately 85% of its palm oil out-
put while local consumption is mainly in the form of soap, detergents and
edible fats products. Total domestic fats and oil consumption is expected
to increase to about 1.6 million tons (or 25 grams per capita per day) in
1990. On the other hand production forecasts of all fats and oils based
on relatively accurate data of present and expected future plantings is fore-
cast to increase to about 2.1 million tons in 1990. Exports of palm oil
amounted in 1976 to about 0.4 million tons. Therefore net exports of total
fats and oils are expected to increase only slightly over the present level.
Two additional aspects have to be taken into account: substitution effects
and income effects. Both are unquantifiable but it is likely that palm oil
will over time replace coconut oil for domestic consumption for price reasons
(palm oil is significantly cheaper). For this purpose Indonesia is building
up its fractionation capacity of palm oil to produce cooking oil for domestic
consumption (one mill is in operation and another mill under construction
with a combined capacity of 108,000 tons). The effect of increased income
in the next 15 years may well lead to a higher per capita consumption than
25 grams per day particularly if the switch to cheaper oils is achieved.
The GOI wishes to ensure that sufficient fats and oils will be available to
feed its growing population. Even with the moderate expansion program now
projected, Indonesia's exports of oil and fats will remain at only about 2% of
total world exports.
5.14      PNP X is the nearest area of palm oil production to the main consump-
tion centers in Java. The palm oil produced in this project, about 19,000 tons
at full development, is likely to be refined and consumed domestically.



- 59 -
D. Price Outlook for Fats and Oils
5.15      Although prices for fats and oils fluctuated widely during the
past two decades (1955-75), they displayed no clear trend. Price fluc-
tuations reflect simultaneous increases or shortfalls in production and ex-
ports of major fats and oils. They are usually related to changes in the
normal weather pattern (typhoons that affect coconut harvesting in the
Philippines, a drought that reduces soybean yields in the United States,
etc.). The sudden increase of fats and oils prices during 1973-74 was
mainly the result of simultaneous production shortfalls in coconut oil
and groundnut oil.
5.16      A decline in real prices of fats and oils is projected during
1975-80. The major assumptions underlying this projection are:
(a) An oversupply of fats and oils caused by:
(i)   the rapid acreage expansion of oil-bearing tree
crops in recent years; and
(ii)   the growing demand for oilseed meals;
(b) A declining market potential for fats and oils in developed
countries, where per capita consumption approaches the satu-
ration level. Demand for fats and oils in these countries
is likely to come mainly from the development of new products
or end-uses and population growth;
(c) Conservative assumptions of overall real income growth
in consuming countries.
5.17      For the 1980-85 period, a slight rise in real fats and oil prices
is projected, on the assumption that producers will reduce plantings in
response to declining prices during the first half of the decade and that
developing countries will absorb an increasing share of the total output
of fats and oils.
5.18      Technological improvements in refining and manufacturing and the
resulting increases in interchangeability of fats and oils have had three
distinct effects on prices. First, prices have become more important in
the manufacturer's choice of oils (or fats). Second, price differentials
among fats and oils have declined. Third, the increased possibility of
substitution has encouraged the use of cheaper oils, such as soybean oil
and palm oil at the expense of high-priced oils such as butter and olive
oil. This has tended to depress the general price level of high-priced
oils.
5.19      The level of palm oil prices relative to those other fats and
oils depends on the share of palm oil in total fats and oils exports. The
effect of increased supply on palm oil prices is aggravated by the fact
that the market for soft oils expands faster than the market for hard oils
(coconut oil, palm kernel oil, palm oil). Although it is physically possible
to substitute hard oils for soft oils, the costs of dehydrogenation are high,



- 60 -
and the rapidly growing output of hard oils can be marketed only at lower
prices than those of soft oils. It is projected, therefore, that there
will be a price differential of about 20% by 1985 between palm oil and its
main competitor, soybean oil. Soybean oil prices (in 1974 constant US
dollars) are projected at 395 US dollars per ton (cif European ports) in
1985, whereas palm oil prices are projected at 320 US dollars for that year.
5.20      The declining trend of relative prices for palm oil (and other
hard oils) can be reversed through: (a) a reduction in refining costs
(easing the interchangeability of these oils with the soft oils in known
end uses); and (b) the development of new end uses.
E. Food Crops
5.21      The farm model is primarily based on rubber and further farm
expansion is expected to be in tree crops. The limited amount of food crops
produced by the rubber smallholders, mostly upland rice, cassava, groundnuts
or beans, will be largely consumed by the farm family. Therefore, no special
marketing arrangements are envisaged for the food crop production.
F. Marketing
5.22      Estate production will be sold through their existing long estab-
lished marketing organizations. Smallholders producing rubber in the Alue
Iemerah and Tebenan settlement areas, mostly lower grades and some latex,
will be free to sell to any of the dealers/exporters in the local area.
However, the nucleus estate will process and market the amount of latex or
slab required for debt repayment (para. 3.53). Owing to favorable prices
predetermined and paid to smallholders on the amount of rubber collected for
debt repayment, it is thought that most smallholders will also sell their
additional rubber production to the nucleus estate.



- 61 -
VI. PRODUCTION ASPECTS, TECHNOLOGICAL FACTORS, AND FARM INCOMES
A. Crops Background
6.01      The main crops which would be subject to project activity would
be rubber, oil palm, coconuts, rice, groundnuts, soyabeans and cassava.
Rubber would be the major crop and would be the mainstay in the medium
term at least, in all four subprojects.
6.02      Smallholder rubber production techniques in Indonesia are backward,
despite the fact that the technology and economics of rubber production in
Indonesia are well known and show marked benefits to adequate levels of
farm inputs and good husbandry. Generally smallholder rubber is grown under
a regime with a low level of farm inputs and smallholder management. Land is
not properly cleared, inferior planting material is used, effective tree
populations are small, fertilizer is inadequate, weeding is badly neglected,
soil conservation is not practiced, trees are overtapped and processing
standards are low. This results in rubber maturity and hence production
being delayed several years (and in many instances rubber may never mature)
and low yields per tree, per hectare and per smallholder.
6.03      On PTP XI the main constraints to good rubber management are
financial and technical, leading to restricted choice of planting material,
inadequate fertilizer and weeding programs, low productivity tappping systems
and poor tapping system control.
6.04      The PNP X oil palm expansion would be located on red-yellow pod-
solics with fairly similar characteristics to several million ha of jungle/
lalang land in Southern Sumatera. Although enough is known of the perfor-
mance of tree crops in this environment, it is desirable at this stage that
initial development of oil palms be carried out by estates rather than by
smallholders. Technical problems will arise with oil palms and should be
solved by estates prior to smallholder introduction to the crop. This
component of the project provides an excellent opportunity for developing the
detailed technical know-how required for future smallholder oil palm develop-
ments in Southern Sumatera and is therefore a necessary precursor to small-
holder oil palm development.
6.05      In the PTP XI coconut component there would be investigation, on a
commercial scale, of the cultivation of high yielding coconut varieties in an
important and underutilized ecological zone in West Java. Currently there
are substantial areas, amounting to several hundred thousand ha, of abandoned
tea, of low yielding rubber and of lalang grass in the 300-600 m zone
where environmental conditions are unsuited to both tea and rubber. There
is sufficient evidence that satisfactory copra yields will be obtained
in this zone and it is necessary that the development work be carried out by
PTP XI on an estate basis, so that when the PTP XI seed gardens reach the
production stage in the mid-eighties, high-yielding coconut varieties and
technical knowledge can be made available to the very large number of small-
holders in West Java who are dependent upon coconut production.



- 62 -
6.06      The technical background to food cropping proposals is given in
para. 2.05.
B. Crop Recommendations
6.07      Rubber.  Land would be cleared mechanically and using herbicides.
In the smallholder settlement components, the clone GTI would mainly be
used. On PTP XI, the most modern internationally available material would
be planted and the approximate clonal composition of the annual planting
program would be: RRIM 600-40%; GTI - 15%; PB 5/51-15%; AV 2307-10%; PR
107-10%; PR 255-5%; PR 28/59-5%.
6.08      The types of planting material would be bare-root budded stumps,
high stumped buddings and 2-3 whorl polybag budded stumps. Emphasis would
be placed upon reduction of the immature period through planting appropri-
ately advanced planting material. The density of planting would be 550
trees/ha in smallholder areas and 500 trees/ha on PTP XI so that early
tapping stands of 400-500 trees/ha may be realized.
6.09      A leguminous cover crop, preferably including Pueraria Triloba,
which has low-weeding costs, would be sown after clearing of the old rubber
stand. Fertilizer recommendations would be based upon leaf and soil analyses
and the nucleus estates, the DGE and PTP XI would be advised on requirements
through the National Rubber Research Program carried out by the Research
Center for Estate Crops in Medan and by the inspectors. Modern tappping
systems with emphasis on low tapping frequency would be introduced with the
objectives of obtaining large increases in productivity per tapper and satis-
factory bark conservation. Mature rubber rehabilitation in tapped areas on PTP
XI would consist of eradication of lalang and Eupatorium weeds and fertilizer
application over 9,637 ha where exploitation of high bank panels had not com-
menced. In the remaining mature area of 6,616 ha on PTP XI, only minimum
upkeep to allow tree access would take place. On PTP XI in approximately
2,060 ha out of 4,120 ha of mature untapped rubber, rehabilitation through
lalang and noxious weed eradication and fertilizer application would be
carried out. The remaining 2,060 ha would be replanted with rubber or coco-
nuts. Determination of the exact area for rehabilitation would depend upon
the results of a field survey to be carried out by the inspectors. In 1,039
ha of immature rubber on PTP XI, rehabilitation would consist of lalang,
Mikania, Eupatorium and other noxious weed eradication with introduction,
where feasible, of leguminous cover crops including Pueraria Triloba.
6.10      A decision upon specific arrangements for PNP X and PNP I in
collection, processing and marketing of rubber produced in the smallholder
components would be made in year 3 of the project. Consideration would be
given to the type of product, the arrangements for ownership, management,
and financing of processing facilities. Processing on PTP XI would be
oriented towards the needs of local industry in West Java and would be



- 63 -
directed towards a balance in production of latex concentrate of interna-
tional standard (with the exception of Serpong Estate production), smoked
sheet and block rubbers. PTP XI after rationalization of processing would have
excess sheet production facilities. This would provide an opportunity to
vary the proportionate production of the 3 main types of primary product in
relation to market prices.
6.11      Oil Palms.  High quality Tenera planting material produced by
the PNP owned Marihat Research Station in North Sumatera would be field
planted, as polybagged palms. The land to be cleared and planted with oil
palms is occupied by secondary jungle and lalang grass. The forest would be
cleared by bulldozers and cutter blade, the lalang by plowing and harrowing.
The cleared land would be sown with a leguminous cover crop which would
probably include Pueraria Triloba, a cover with low weeding costs. Field
planting would commence in October/November and continue until February/
March. Density of planting would be in the range 140-150 trees/ha. Fertilizer
recommendations would be based upon leaf and soil analyses and PNP X would
be advised on fertilizer requirements by Marihat Research Station and the
inspection services. Marihat Research Station would set-up facilities and
other agronomic trials as appropriate in the plantings as a basis for
determination of oil palm cultivation requirements in the project area.
6.12      High quality palm oil would be produced through correct timing
of harvest, careful handling and rapid transportation of fresh fruit bunches
to the mill. A mill process control system would be established in PNP X
mills to ensure minimization of processing losses and maintenance of high
product quality.
6.13      Coconuts.  Hybrid (tall X dwarf) planting material would be derived
from the PNP X seed garden in Lampung. Coconuts would be field planted as
polybag-palms at a density of 143/ha. PTP Xl would be advised on fertilizer
requirements by LPTI and the coconut agronomy advisor.
6.14      Food Crops.  The first year package of food crop inputs for each
smallholders family is to be supplied by the nucleus estate (Annex 1, Cl,
Table 9.1). Successive food crop inputs would be supplied through the BIMAS
program, but would continue to be provided by the nucleus estate in the event
of delays in organization of the BIMAS program. It is assumed, however, that
many smallholders will purchase seed and fertilizer without the need for
credit since incomes from estate employment will be sufficient to meet input
requirements. Smallholders would be advised to cultivate their 2.8 ha food
crop areas on an 8-9 year rotational basis, in the sequence of land clearing
and food crop planting, sowing a fallow period leguminous covercrop, and
reclearing and foodcrop planting. It is assumed that food crop planting
would consist of rice planting in November, followed by beans or groundnuts
planted in March, with cassava established in October of the second year
(South Sumatera dates).



- 64 -
C. Impact of Yields and Production
6.15      Rubber.  Present smallholder rubber yields are about 300-400 kg/ha
per annum and 3 kg per tapper. As a result of the improved practices to be
introduced, and estate management of the block planted rubber, peak yields
should reach 1,500 kg/ha in the settlement projects. The rubber yields
for the smallholder farm model are contained in Annex 1, Bl, Table 1.1. New
areas at PTP XI are anticipated to achieve peak yields of 2,800 kg/ha on the
exceptionally fertile soil of West Java and 25 kg/tapper. Mean estate yields
and yields per tapper on PTP XI are estimated to reach 1,100 kg/ha and 12 kg
respectively in 1980 and 1,350 kg/ha and 16 kg in 1985.
6.16      Palm  Oil.  Mature area yields of palm oil in the PNP X Lampung
area, as projected for the project, are not expected to average above
3.5 tons/ha per annum as a result of intense 4-5 month droughts which occur
every 4-5 years and the marginal rainfall in this area. In South Sumatera,
however, yields should be about 30% higher or 4.5 tons/ha of palm oil.
6.17      Coconuts.  The mean yield of smallholder coconuts in Indonesia
is about 700 kg/ha dry copra whereas the hybrids to be planted under the
project should yield about 5 tons/ha.
6.18      Food Crops.  Garden area lots (0.2 ha) would be continuously
and intensively cropped in the smallholder farming system, using inorganic
fertilizers and compost. About 50% of the area would be in cassava and 50%
in rice or beans at any one time. Yields on this small area have been
projected to increase from an initial 1.2 tons/ha of paddy and 8 tons/ha of
cassava to 2.0 tons/ha of paddy and 12 tons/ha of cassava within five years.
On the subsistence area, with much less intensive cropping, yields are
expected to reach 1.6 tons/ha for paddy, 0.9 tons/ha for beans/groundnuts in
shell and 6.0 tons/ha for wet cassava at full development. Yield improvements
to these levels in Aceh and South Sumatera would be obtained by using moderate
quantities of inorganic fertilizers (100 kg/ha urea and 50 kg/ha triple
super-phosphate, Annex 1, Bl, Table 1.4). Farm models (para. 6.19) show that
both project areas would essentially supply only the food crop subsistence
needs for each farm family. A small marketable surplus of beans or groundnuts
may be generated.
D. Farm Model
6.19      The requirements for the farm model for the settlement components
in Aceh and South Sumatera have focused on development of an income base for
project settlers to be derived from rubber. The physical allocation of the 5
ha farm model into 2 ha of block planted rubber and 3 ha of subsistence crop
area has been described in para. 2.21, and would be identical for both
settlement project areas. Clearing and planting of garden and subsistence



- 65 -
food requirements, rice, beans/groundnuts and cassava, have been phased to
account for labor constraints of the farm family. Emphasis has been given to
an assured income in the early years of development of one settler family
member employed as estate labor and hence, rotational subsistence food
cropping of 2.8 ha within the full 3 ha of food crop area would not be
complete until year 7. In addition to the 2 ha of block planted rubber, it
is expected that the farmer will eventually plant an additional ha of rubber
or other tree crops within the 3 ha of available subsistence crop area.
Planting of additional rubber in 0.5 ha blocks, based on available man-days
and sufficient income, would be possible by year 8. A crop planting summary
is contained in Annex 1, B1, Table 1.1 and is based on the labor analyses
as shown in Tables 1.2 and 1.3.
6.20      Prices.  The smallholder rubber price has been discusssed in
para. 5.07. Other prices used in farm income statements as contained in
Annex 1, Cl, Tables 1.1-1.4, are as follows:
(1) Rice: Rice is presently bought and sold by Bulog, the GOI agency
for rice pt'rchasing, at subsidized prices below the world market
price. It is GOI's intention to slowly decrease the level of
subsidy in the rice price so as to eliminate it by 1985. The
international price for 5% unbroken rice is projected to fall from
the 1976 level of US$400/ton (Rp 166/kg) to US$324/ton (Rp 134/kg
in 1985. This latter price is equivalent to a farm gate price of
Rp 80/kg for paddy, which is also the present Bulog subsidized
price.
(2) Cassava, Croundnuts and Garden Crops: The current farmgate prices
for wet root cassava, Rp 8/kg, and unshelled beans/groundnuts,
Rp 120/kg, have been used in projections and are expected to
remain constant over the life of the project. The cassava price is
particularly stable in constant terms since the price is based on
US$125/ton cif Germany for cassava pellets, for which German feed
processors have had stable contracts for Indonesian cassava produc-
tion for some time.
(3) Fertilizers: For urea and TSP, applied to food crops, the subsi-
dized BIMAS price of Rp 80/kg has been assumed to remain constant
throughout the project life. The projected decline in fertilizer
prices (in constant terms) is likely to eliminate the present
subsidy. Farm models have used prices for fertilizer required in
rubber production based on the projected decline in constant prices
and converted to farmgate prices. Fertilizers applied to rubber
during the development phase have been kept at the 1976 constant
price with the adjustment for declining prices made in the price
contingency (para. 3.36).
E. Farm Incomes
6.21      Farm Incomes.  Settler incomes are summarized below, based on the
farm model as described in para. 6.19 and in Annex 1, Bl, Tables 1.1-1.4.
Family income is shown in current terms and in constant 1976 prices to



- 66 -
reflect the projected payments for debt service and the relative price
changes between rubber and the costs of on-farm production. The Aceh and
South Sumatera income statements are identical with the exception of the
value of earned income from nucleus estate employment during the development
period.
Table 12: FARM INCOMES - SOUTH SUMATERA
Year
3        10         15        20         25
-------------- (Current $) --------------
Net Value /a of:
Food production             134        491       887      1,295     2,029
Rubber from 2 ha             -       2,220     3,269      4,284      2,514
Total on-farm income           134      2,720     4,156      5,579      4,541
Total off-farm income          436        -         -          -          -
Total income                   570      2,720     4,156      5,579      4,541
Debt repayments                 -         675     1,064      1,358        -
Net Income                     570      2,045      3,092     4,221      4,541
Net Income (constant 76$)      400        824        849       793        580
/a After IPEDA taxes.
The rapid rise in farm incomes between years 3 and 10 reflects the income
stream from rubber which would start in calendar year 6 or project year 7.
It is apparent that project farmers would need to plant new rubber prior
to year 20 to avoid a substantial reduction in their levels of living.
New plantings would stabilize income when old rubber would be replaced
about year 25. Incomes during the development period would never be greatly
depressed in the event of food crop failures since off-farm employment would
constitute about 75% of net family income.
6.22      Minimum Subsistence Determination.  Requirements for minimum
subsistence have guided the selection of the farm model, the extent of cost
recovery and the determination of target income. The minimum subsistence
level (MISL) has been previously defined for the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND) as the recommended daily nutrient intake
on average for Indonesia of 1,950 calories/day and 30 grams of protein/day.
This consumption pattern would cost about Rp 29,000 (US$70) per person based



- 67 -
Table 13: COMPARISON OF DEVELOPMENT COSTS PER FAMILY
(Constant 1976 US$)
South Sumatera                              Aceh
Credit    Non-Credit  Total Costs  Credit    Non-Credit  Total Costs
Rubber Development
Direct costs                             2,501           -       2,501         2,715            -       2,715
Machinery                                  230           -         230            206           -         206
Overheads                                  390           -         390           438            -         438
Subtotal                       3,121            -       3,121         3,359            -       3,359
Subsistence Package
Seed/fertilizer                             17           -          17             17           -          17
Cash payment                                36           -          36             36           -          36
Subtotal                           53           -          53             53           -          53
Vehicles
Project vehicles                             -          10          10              -           7           7
Agricultural vehicles and equipment    259               -         259            166           -         166
Subtotal                          259          10         269            166           7         173
Roads
Main access and village roads                -         430         430              -         379         379
Farm roads and track                        25           -          25             25           -          25
Machinery for farm roads and track          29           -          29             24           -          24
Subtotal                           54         430         484             49         379         428
Settler Housing                              500           -         500            500           -         500
Village Infrastructure
Village centers                              -          28          28              -          29          29
Schools                                      -          25          25              -          29          29
Project buildings                           29           -          29             22           -          22
Subtotal                           29          53          82             22          58          80
Health Services
Village Health Program                       -         113         113              -         111         111
Health center                                -          52          52              -          33          33
Subtotal                            -         165         165              -         144         144
Project Management
Project office                               -          60          60              -          40          40
DGE Technical Assistance                     -         148         148              -         148         148
Subtotal                            -         208         208              -         188         188
TOTAL                           4,016 /a      866       4,882 /b      4,149 /c       776       4,925 /d
/a  In current terms, this equals a loan amount of US$5,110, or Rp 2.1 million.
/b In current terms, total development cost per family equals US$6,200, or Rp 2.6 million.
/c In current terms, this equals a loan amount of US$5,288, or Rp 2.2 million.
/d In current terms, total development cost per family equals US$6,255, or Rp 2.6 million.



- 68 -
on estimates of an Indonesian market basket. MSL has also been defined to
include an additional 20% of the food cost for expenditures for clothing,
shelter, medical expenses, etc., (US$14). For project purposes MSL has been
valued at Rp 175,000 for a family of five (US$420) per annum.
6.23      Relation to Target Income.  The target income of US$800 per annum,
which the farm model provides, would leave about US$380 in net cash income
(after MSL). Available cash of US$380 would approximate the cost for the
first year of farmers' own planting of an additional 0.5 ha of rubber.
6.24      MSL has been used to establish cash and subsistence requirements
during the development period. Income from subsistence cropping and employ-
ment on the nucleus estate should be sufficient to meet MSL from the second
year of development for each farm family.  In year 1, when income is insuffi-
cient to meet MSL, GOI would provide a subsistence package to each family
including US$36 (constant 1976) as a cash payment to cover food and transpor-
tation costs to the project site.  Seed and fertilizer for the first year of
food crop inputs (US$17) would also be provided.  Although cash payments are
small, they are considered to be sufficient for the period for which settlers
would be mobilized as estate employees.
VII. COSTS AND BENEFITS
A. Project Benefits and Justification
7.01      Settlement Components.  Expected future yields and the cropping
pattern for rubber and food crop development are discussed in para. 6.15-
6.18. Farmgate prices for inputs and outputs have been discussed in Chapters
V and VI, based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts and conditions in the
project areas. Gross returns, production costs, and net returns (without
accounting for labor costs) are given in Chapter VI and are contained
in Annex 1, Cl. The income effects as measured, represent increases in per
capita incomes from US$50 to about US$160 at full development for about 28,750
beneficiaries in the rural target population. Other benefits which have not
been quantified include improvement of health and sanitation, the nutritional
status of settlers, and the multiplier effects on the regional economy of
local capital formation and increased levels of consumption expenditure.
7.02      Estate Components.  The planting program, expected yields and
prices for inputs and outputs for the estate development and rehabilitation
components, PNP X and PTP XI, are described in Chapters V and VI and are
detailed in Annex 1, B2, B3. Financial tables to measure net returns
including all labor and overhead co'sts are detailed in Annex 1, Cl, C3.
(a) PNP X. As shown in C2, Table 4.1, the net income of PNP X would
increase from its present level of Rp 33 million (US$79,500)
to Rp 1.6 billion (US$3.85 million) by 1980. As a result of the
project, PNP X would be diversified agriculturally to be less



- 69 -
vulnerable to price fluctuations, and would be made financially
secure to continue its own further expansion or carry out further
functions in a nucleus estate capacity. Income generated by PNP X
is estimated to accrue benefits to the Government from corporation
and other taxes, amounting to Rp 110 billion (US$265 million) over
the life of the project, and from dividends, estimated to total
Rp 25 billion (US$60.2 million). The GOI is estimated to become
owner of a debt-free estate after 1996 with assets estimated at
Rp 150 billion (US$360 million) at that time (all figures in
current terms.
(b)  PTP XI.  Early financial benefits of the PTP XI development
component would result from the higher average rubber yields from
its rehabilitation program of about 13,000 ha of rubber. At full
development (1985), operating surpluses /1 from the incremental rubber
output are estimated to amount to Rp 8.6 billion (US$20.8 million)
as shown in C3, Table 3.3 (all figures in current terms). Full
financial benefits from the 4,200 ha coconut planting program
would not be experienced until later, but should generate operating
surpluses of Rp 13.7 billion (US$33.0 million) by 1994 (C3, Table
3.4). The project would financially stabilize PTP XI by 1980 when
net profits after taxes are estimated to amount to Rp 1.7 billion
(US$4.2 million) as seen in C3, Table 4.2. At full development in
1995, net profits should be about Rp 10.4 billion (US$25.0 million).
Dividends over the life of the project are estimated to amount to
Rp 92.0 billion (US$221 million) while corporate taxes accruing to
the GOI would be about Rp 139.0 billion (US$335.0 million).
B. Costs
7.03      Settlement Costs.  GOI investment costs per family have been com-
puted as shown in Table 13 on page 65. On the basis of present knowledge,
these models with amounts of US$4,882 (constant 1976) for South Sumatera and
US$4,925 for Aceh smallholder settlement schemes constitute the least cost
approach relative to GOI's objectives for target income and cost recovery.
As the project would test replicability for other nucleus estate and settle-
ment projects, settlement costs would be monitored throughout the project
with a view to cost reduction and physical or technical changes which would
improve GOI's ability to develop a more cost-effective approach for
improving the livelihood of the 60% of the rural population which live in the
poverty target group.
7.04      Employment Creation.  The number of permanent jobs created in
Aceh and South Sumatera related to the number of smallholder beneficiaries
would be about 11,500 (2.0 x 5,750 smallholder families). In addition, 4,000
11 Operating surplus is sales revenue minus operating costs i.e. before
general overhead, interest, depreciation and selling expenses.



- 70 -
casual laborers would receive employment in rubber development for one-third
to one-half of each year during the rubber development period, or about
480,000 mandays per year. Increased regional employment in the settlement
areas as a result of spread and multiplier effects on the regional economy
has not been analyzed, but using a conservative estimate of 50% of the
permanent jobs created, it could be assumed that an additional 5,700 secondary
service and tradesmen jobs would result from the smallholder project components.
7.05      About 2.0 permanent jobs would be created under the project on each
smallholding. Job creation per smallholding would increase to 3.0 persons per
smallholding through farmer's own planting of an additional one ha of rubber.
On the basis of 2.0 jobs created, however, the cost of individual job creation
by GOI would be about US$2,441 in South Sumatera and US$2,462 (constant 1976)
in Aceh. These costs include infrastructure development and road construction
costs which might be legitimately charged to regional development. This cost
compares favorably with job creation in average small-scale industry in
Indonesia estimated at about US$5,800, and in medium to large scale industry
at about US$15,500.
7.06      The number of new permanent jobs created in PNP X and PTP XI would be
about 5,000. The expansion and rehabilitation programs would provide continued
employment for the 12,800 existing laborers at PTP X and 15,800 laborers
presently employed at PTP XI. The total cost of the estate project compo-
nent, about US$78 million, would maintain employment for about 33,600 people
(average cost US$2,300/job). On a purely incremental basis, the cost per job
created would be much higher because of the relatively large part of project
costs allocated to rehabilitation, replanting/conversion, processing and
housing facilities for existing workers.
C. Financial Results
7.07      Financial flows of costs and benefits are detailed in Annex 1, Dl.
Results of financial cost-benefit analysis are summarized below in Table 14.
7.08      Estates Component.  Financial rates of return were calculated
for total estate operations, by project area development, i.e. PNP X -
Lampung Project and PNP X - South Sumatera, and by crop, identifying only
incremental costs and benefits from the project:
(a)  PNP X.  The overall incremental financial rate of return for PNP X,
estimated at 17% (after taxes), is satisfactory. Rubber development
in the expansion program at Lampung has a rate of return of 30%
(before taxes), which is high mainly because the rubber project is
part of an ongoing project and therefore benefits from substantial
sunk costs. The overall PNP X rate of return is weighted heavily
by the lower returns from the Betung Oil Palm Estate in South Sumatera
and oil palm in the Lampung area, 18% and 17% (both before taxes)
respectively. Oil palm rates of return are lower at PNP X than for
rubber because start-up in oil palm, demands a much higher level of
investment in physical infrastructure and processing. Additionally,
oil palm rates of return are lower resulting from the higher costs



Table 14: RESULTS OF COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
(Percent)
Financial         Crop Price/         Investment        -25 Investments +25
Rate of        Yield Changes            Cost               Price/Yields
Return      -20  -10  +10  +20        -25  +25         -10  +10  -10   +10
Estate Development
I. PNP X
Total Estates /a                17           2    9   23   28         22   14          14   29    7    18
Betung Oil Palm
Estate                     18          7   13   20   24         22   14          17   25   11    18
Lampung Project              24           8   18   29   34        31   20          24   37   14    29
Rubber                       30         15   24   36   42         39   25          31   47   18    29
Oil Palm                     17         (9)  10   23   27         23   12          15   28   (4)   18
II. PTP XI
Total Estates /a                 29         22   26   32   36         44   27          39   50   23    30
Rubber                       35         26   31   39   43         46   29           40   51   26    32
Coconut                      23         18   21   25   27         25   22           23   28   20    23
Financial                     Food Crop   Investment         -25 Investments +25
Rate of    Rubber Price        Yields         Cost               Price/Yields
Return    -30  -10  +10   -20  -10    -25   +25              -10  +10  -10  +10
Smallholders Development
III. South Sumatera
Smallholders            17         13   16   18    17   16         22    13          19   24   11   14
IV.  Aceh Smallholders          16         13   15   17    15   16        22    13           20   24   11   14
/a  Rates of return for total estate operations include corporation and other taxes; no taxes
were allocated to individual crops or areas of development.



- 72 -
per hectare in planting and harvesting, about 15% higher than in
rubber. Oil palm projections have been based on price projections
recently produced by the Bank Commodities Division. The constant
price of palm oil of an average about US$400/ton (1976) used for
projections is well below the average price realized in the period
1960-75 of over US$500/ton.
(b)  PTP XI.  The overall incremental financial rate of return for PTP
XI, estimated at 29%, is high resulting from the large income to be
derived from rehabilitated rubber areas. Rubber rehabilitation at
PTP XI has the estimated rate of return of 35% as compared with 30%
for the replantings of rubber at PNP X, Lampung. The rate of return
on coconut production, estimated at 23%, would be excellent consid-
ering the long development period before benefits would be obtained.
7.09       Smallholder Components.  Incremental financial rates of return
for smallholders in Aceh and South Sumatera are estimated to be 16% and
17% respectively. In the absence of the project it was assumed that small-
holders would continue to earn US$250 in net family income. This income
was treated as a cost to derive net incremental benefits. Investment costs
included only credit items of expenditure and as such, do not include
village or social infrastructure. The slightly higher rubber establish-
ments costs in Aceh account for the 1% difference between rates of return.
7.10       Government.  The rate of return for the GOI on all public sector
outlays and GOI equity in the project is estimated at 25% (Annex 1, Dl, Table
5.1). Project account benefits have included corporate, export and IPEDA
taxes, dividends from the estates and interest earnings from loan repayments.
7.11       Sensitivity Analysis.  The effects on the financial rates of
return based on changing prices, yields and investment costs are indicated in
the above Table 14. The range of sensitivity change on PTP XI including cost
overruns of 25% and prices or yield reductions of 10% would have little
effect on the overall viability of the project. PNP X, however, would be
adversely affected by even a modest reduction in prices or yields owing to
the substantial fixed cost requirements for oil palm in the early years of
development and the conservative price projections used. Sensitivity changes
for the smallholder farm models have included a 30% reduction in the price
paid by nucleus estates for smallholder rubber to the lower prices paid by a
smallholder cooperative or other processors (50% of fob). On this basis, the
rate of return would still be satisfactory at 13%. Project risks including
those of a financial nature are discussed in para. 7.16.
D. Economic Results
7.12       The economic evaluation of all project components is detailed in
Annex 1, D2, and summarized in Table 15.



- 73 -
7.13      The estimated economic rate of return for the project is 30%.
Economic rates of return were obtained on all project components after
adjustment of the main benefits and costs valued in terms of border prices or
the border prices of their tradeable components.  Other assumptions made in
the analysis were as follows:
(a)  Taxes:  corporation taxes and duties were eliminated from the
estates components whereas all export taxes for rubber and other
crops were added to the net value of farm or plantation output;
IPEDA taxes were also added back to the value of production in the
smallholder components;
(b)  Foreign Exchange:  foreign exchange has been shadow priced at 125%
of the official exchange rate as a measure of taxing distortions
at the border;
(c)  Value of Farm Labor:  the financial wage to be paid to smallholders
by the nucleus estates and the wage paid to estate laborers in this
project is about Rp 422/day. In estimating the marginal value of
labor to the economy for this project, the marginal wage rate of Rp
210/day paid to casual laborers has been used to measure the disutil-
ity of labor. The alternative for settlers for participating in this
project would be to seek casual labor in their own areas. Even
without abundant demand for this kind of labor, the maximum work that
could be offered to these families would be 600 mandays including both
the husband and wife. Most of the expected settler families have
0.5 ha of subsistence crop area which requires a minimum of 150 man-
days per annum. On this basis, 450 mandays at maximum would be
given to expected smallholder families. Four hundred and fifty
mandays valued at the casual labor rate of Rp 210/day represents the
marginal value of labor to the economy. This shadow wage rate for
family labor would total Rp 95,000/annum or about 54% of the minimum
subsistence level.
(d)  Road, Village and Social Infrastructure were fully costed in the
economic rate of return.
7.14      Sensitivity.  Table 15 indicates the impact on the economic rate of
return if the shadow wage rate for farm labor is reduced by 50%. This rate,
or Rp 47,250 per family, would reflect incremental labor of only 225 mandays
per family (150 mandays for males and 75 mandays for females), assuming that
50% of the target groups annual labor contribution is already in agricultural
employment. On this basis the estimated rate of return would be 35%.



- 74 -
Table 15: RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Shadow /c
Economic /a /b              Wage Decreased
Rate of Return                   by 50%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (%)__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
PNP X
Lampung project
Rubber                         48                           62
Oil palm                       32                           37
Overall                        38                           46
South Sumatera -
Betung project
Oil Palm                       26                            28
Total PNP X                  35                            41
PTP XI
Rubber                         54                            65
Coconut                        29                            32
Total PTP XI                 41                            55
Smallholder components
Aceh smallholders              15                            17
South Sumatera                 15                            17
Total project
Including technical
assistance                  30                            35
Excluding technical
assistance                  31                            36
/a  Assumes a shadow foreign exchange rate of Rp 520 to US$1.00 or 125% to
the existing rate of Rp 415 to US$1.00.
/b Assumes shadow wage rate of Rp 210/day, the marginal wage rate paid to
casual labor; for smallholder project components, this wage has been
applied to the additional 450 mandays of labor per family to be offered
with the project equal to 54% of the minimum subsistence level for a
family of five; for estate components, this wage has been applied to 300
mandays of estate laborers representing the marginal value of this labor
to the economy.
/c Equal to Rp 47,500 per family or 27% of the MSL.



- 75 -
E. Project Risks
7.15      Although the project would be the first to utilize the nucleus
estate approach for tree crop development and settlement of smallholders,
project risks of a technical and economic nature would not be unusual. The
project would rely heavily on the management and technical capabilities of
the public sector estates where the feasibility and implementation of rubber
development is entirely known. Fertilizer and rubber maintenance to year 3,
and the supervision of all application of inputs to year 6 by the nucleus
estate PNP/PTPs, would minimise some risks to rubber yields and smallholder
benefits throughout the rubber life cycle. The technical feasibility of
sustained annual food cropping on project area soils (para. 2.05) with only
moderate fertility is inadequately known. Additional risk in food cropping
would be the result of settler inexperience in recommended technical practices.
Assuming efficient project management, however, and a good settler response,
known techniques are sufficient to obtain food crop yields as projected. Given
the overriding concern for replicability, and the need to ensure that early
models are successful in terms of settler receptivity, the intended farm model
has been based on the more assured benefits of rubber. Moreover, conservative
yield estimates have been used for food cropping. As a design parameter,
income from food cropping would represent only 20% of farm income at full
development.
7.16      Some of the organizational and financial approaches employed in
this project are of necessity innovative and are therefore untested.   The flow
of funds in a single source of project finance for credit items and the credit
delivery system (para. 3.52) has been designed to provide the nucleus estate
PNP/PTPs with development capital on a timely basis. No particular adminis-
trative bottlenecks or risks are envisioned in this procedure. Cost recovery,
however, on the "in kind" basis as proposed for this project is untested in
Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia and has not been used by the BRI (para.
3.53). Given that farmers would have the ability to repay (para. 3.55) and
that a price incentive has been built in to influence smallholders to repay
(para. 3.57), the element of risk rests in the increased burden of the public
sector estates as collection agents, a responsibility to be undertaken long
after their development work. It will be a major responsibility to GOI and
DGE to ensure collection, proper record keeping and timely transfer of accounts
and revenue by the PNP/PTPs to the BRI. GOI has requested this method of
cost recovery and is confident that the PNP/PTPs will collect smallholder
rubber for debt repayments in order to rkice their own operating and overhead
costs by increased throughput.
7.17      The public sector estate's desire to carry out a development role
for smallholders is untested. Consequently, an incentive system for proper
rubber establishment has been designed as part of the payment for their services
(para. 3.49). In addition to the possible risk of estate management of small-
holder block rubber development, the management capability of the Provincial
Government has not been tested in the extensive role required for this project.
The tasks of integration of rubber development with settlement planning,
budgeting and overseeing village construction, and providing health and other
social services required for 3,500 settler families in Aceh and 2,250 settlers



- 76 -
in South Sumatera will require the Provincial Government's closest attention.
To minimize risks in management at this level, close guidance by the DGE and
the technical assistance provided under this project will be necessary. If
project management at the provincial level is proven capable of successfully
implementing the infrastructural aspects of the settlement components project
given the size and scope of its additional responsibilities, the project would
represent a significant achievement in institution building and would prove to
be a direct benefit in identifying managerial innovation and further cost
savings for other settlement projects.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATIONS
8.01      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
Smallholder Components
(a)  that the DGE will appoint by February 28, 1978 one internationally
recruited consultant acceptable to the Bank and on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, for each of the following (para.
4.09):
(i)  project and program preparation, implementation and evaluation;
and
(ii) project finance, procurement, and administration;
(b)  (i)  arrangements to extend the BIMAS program coverage to the sett-
lers in Alue Iemerah and Tebenan will be made by June 30, 1978
(para. 3.13);
(ii) PTP V and PNP X will continue to procure and supply food crop
inputs for project settlers until such time as the BIMAS program
is fully established (para. 3.13); and
(iii) an adequate number of BRI mobile units will be established at
the commenement of the BIMAS program (para. 4.21);
(c)  (i)  the Provincial Coordiuating Committees will submit annual
budgets for noncredit expenditures six months prior to the
start of each fiscal year and will maintain appropriate cost
accounts acceptable to the DGE and the Bank in respect of such
expenditures (para. 3.41); and
(ii) whenever budget funds from APBN, APBD and INFRES sources are
insuff-' ient to cover noncredit expenditures, the Borrower
will mi   arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to meet
additic al requirements (para. 3.41);
(iii) the accounts of all agencies of the Borrower participating in
the implementation of the project will be audited each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.50).



- 77 -
(d) the borrower will cause the nucleus estate processors to pay about
70% of the fob price for rubber produced by smallholder project
farmers, except in cases of:
(i)  significant reduction in quality of rubber received, or in the
fob price from that prevailing at the date of negotiations
(para 5.08); or
(ii) significant increases in collection, processing and marketing
charges of the nucleus estate processor from those prevailing
at the date of negotiations (para. 5.08).
(e)  (i)  Certificate of "conditional" Hak Milik for a five-hectare
land area will be received by each smallholder family within
six months of entry to a settlement project (para. 4.19);
and
(ii)  this certificate will be converted to full Hak Milak
within three years after settlement subject to review of
settler performance (para. 4.19);
(f) nucleus estates PTP V and PNP X would maintain separate accounts
for expenditures in connection with the settlement components (para.
3.50).
Estate Components
(a)  measures will be taken to appoint a permanent Support Staff to the
MOA or to make alternative arrangements in consultation with the
Bank (para. 4.04), and the Minister of Agriculture will appoint six
specialists for a period of three years, satisfactory to the Bank
and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank for the following
(para. 4.15);
(i) investment appraisal and planning programming and budgeting;
(ii)  financial management and control;
(iii)  production management;
(iv)  processing/estate engineering;
(v)  marketing; and
(vi)  organization of quality control inspection services.
(b)  the MOA will employ consultants providing inspection services
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank for three years, to monitor the progress of the project
with respect to field conditions, processing, housing, infrastruc-
ture and finance on PNP X and PTP XI (para. 4.17);



- 78 -
(c) the MOA will contract with a qualified firm with appropriate
experience in public sector estates for further development of the
information, accounting, and budgeting systems of the public sector
estates (para. 4.15(si));
(d) four internationally recruited specialists will be appointed for
three years by the Director of the Estates Training Institute, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.15(b));
(e) the Borrower will cause:
(i) PNP X to employ internationally recruited specialists in each
of (a) administration and finance; (b) palm oil processing
and (c) field management, each for three years (para 4.16);
(ii) PTP XI to employ internationally recruited specialists in
each of (a) production (for four years); (b) finance for
four years; and (c) estate engineering and processing for
two years, the specialists under (a) and (b) to serve each
for two years as operational assistants (para. 4.16);
(f) the Borrower will ensure that before an appointment is made to the
position of member of PNP X's Direksi (executive management)
or to PTP XI's Direksi, that the Bank will be informed of the
names, qualifications, and persons considered for appointment
to such position and an opportunity given to comment on them.
If a supervisory board is established at PNP X, or if there is any
change in the supervisory board of PTP XI, the Bank will be in-
formed prior to the appointment of members (para. 4.16);
(g) PNP X will be converted into PT status by June 1, 1978 (para.
4.05);
(h) the Borrower will make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
which will: (1) exempt PNP X and PTP XI from dividend and DPS
exemption during the first six years from December 31, 1977; and
(2) provide sufficient funds to PNP X in the form of equity and
PTP XI in the form of loans to carry out the project (para. 3.39).
(i) the Borrower will ensure that PNP X will, from its own resources
or funds made available by the Borrower on conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, complete the planted area of oil palm in the Betung
Estate to 10,000 ha in the period 1982-1984 (para. 3.24);
(j) the Borrower will ensure that PNP X and PTP XI will not be burdened
with additional management and financial obligations not directly
related with the project. Ongoing projects at PNP X outside rubber
and oil palm will not entail more than Rp 250 million in any one
year (para. 3.49).



- 79 -
(k) the Borrower will take actions prior to December 31, 1979 to
disinvest PNP X of the Pagar Alam Estate (para. 3.25);
(1) the Borrower will take action prior to December 31, 1979 to cause
PTP XI to rationalize its operations including reduction in the
number of estates, their consolidation into larger units, transfer
of uneconomic assets, cessation of uneconomic activities and transfer
of the head office to Bogor. A program for the fulfillment of these
actions will be drawn up by PTP XI and submitted to the Bank by
June 1, 1978 (para. 3.28);
(m)  PNPX and PTP XI will submit annual budgets and five year forecasts
each year to the Bank for review and comment before adoption by PTP
XI's Board of Directors (para. 3.51); PNPX and PTPXI will have
their accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.51);
(n) PTP XI will consult the Bank on the appointment of architects
for the design and supervision of construction of the head office
in Bogor (para. 3.28);
(o) the Borrower will take all action necessary:
(i) by March 31, 1979 to improve the road from Palembang to the
Tebenan project area to asphalt standard adequate to support
6-ton trucks (para 3.23); and
(ii) by December 31, 1977 to provide a long-term lease for land suitable
for a bulking installation for palm oil at the Palembang port
(para. 3.23).
General
(a) The DGE in respect of the smallholder components and the MOA Support
Staff in respect of the estates components will provide to the
Bank for review by September 30 of each year an annual work program
showing in detail the program of work to be undertaken by each
agency (para. 4.22).
8.03      The following are conditions for disbursement for the respective
components of the project:
Alue Iemerah Settlement
(a) signing of a rubber development contract between the DGE and PTP V
and PNP I in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.13);
(b) signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and BRI and a
Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and PNP V in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.38);



-80 -
Tebenan Area Settlement
(c) signing of a rubber development contract between the DGE and PNP X
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.13);
(d) signing of a Financing Agreement between the Borrower and BRI, and a
Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and PNP X in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.38).
PNP X Estate Development
(e) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and PNP X
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.39);
(f) that three specialists for PNP X acceptable to the Bank and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, have been appointed to assist
management in the following (para. 4.16);
(i) administration and finance;
(ii) palm oil processing;
(iii) field management.
PTP XI Estate Development
(g) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and PTP XI
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.39);
(h) that one operational assistant to the Directors of PTP XI for
Production and Finance had been appointed in each of the following
(para. 4.16):
(i) production;
(ii) finance;
and that one consultant specialist at PTP XI has been appointed for
the following:
(i) estate engineering/processing.
(i) independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank have been appointed to
audit PTP XI (para. 3.51).
8.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the project will be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$65.0 million, with repayment over 20 years
including 5 years of grace. The Borrower will be the Government of
Indonesia.



CHART I
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GOVERNMENT OWNED ESTATES SYSTEM
MINISTER
OF
AGRICULTURE
SUPPORT
                ~~~~STAFF FOR
AGRICULTURAL
ENTERPR ISES
NOTES
1. A PNP or PTP Unit is a group of Government owned estates.
2. In the case of PTPs authority for direction and control is delegated by the Minister of Finance
to the Minister of Agriculture as Chairman of the Shareholders Meeting.
World Bank-17279



INDONESIA                                                                  CHART 2
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF A GOVERNMENT OWNED ESTATE GROUP (PTP)
CHAIRMAN OF
SHAREHOLDERS
MEETING
BOA.D OF
SUPERVISORS
FIRS; 
DIRECTOR
r     -                                      .                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARKETING
PRODUCtNON                                                                                COMMEDCIAL
_   DIRECTOR   _                                               .              _           DIRECTOR                    a  7
World Bank-17280



CHART 3
INDONESIA                                                       CHART_
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ESTATES
MINISTER
OF
AGRICULTURE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
| BOARD                                           DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF ESTATES       1   - - -     - - - - - -  - - _-_ _              ADVISORY BOARD
I                  J                                                 (COMMODITY APPROACH)
I   SECRETAR                DIRECTORATE            DIRECTORATE           DIRECTORATE
OF PLANNING           OF PRODUCTION         OF MEANS OF OPERATION
BAPPENAS             RESEARCH AND           MIN. OF FINANCE, AGRA
l        I |  | DEVELOPMENT        RIA, BRI, ETC.
NSSD                          TEA PROJECT                         NES I
direct/function line
_ _  _-_ -coordination line
World Bank-17281



CHART 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT
TO DEPARTMENT OF                                                                              TO CENTRAL
HOME AFFAIRS                                                                                  GOV'T.
| PROVINCIAL;   --4                                                                          PROVINCIAL
| PARLIAMENT |I         _ ___    GOVERNORS|I
GOV'T.
L----------
I.                                                                                                                                  PROVINCIAL
_PER WA-                                                                           SECRETARY |GV 
KILAN                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE
DINAS  PROVINCE                                   RPOVINCIAL DIRECTOSATES
DPER.E1UNANDEEOMT
PARLIAMENT
THE REGENCY
|SECRETARY|
AATN                                             KABUPATEN
KOTAMADYA'S
r                    DINAS KABUIPATEN                                              SUB-DIRECTORATES
DINAS PER-                           ~~~~~~~~SUB-OIREC--
KEBUNAN KA-  ~~~~~~~~~~~              DEV'T.
KECAMATANS
t  MAHGAA   S
MNUKIM                                                                                            M
MARGA'S
MUKIM'S



CHART 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SETTLEMENT PROJECTS
MINISTER
OF                                                     GOVERNOR
AGRICULTURE
DIRECTOR                                            CHAIRMAN OF
GENERAL                                             BAPPEDA
OF                                           -    PROVINCIAL
ESTATE                                             COORDINATION
#00     ~COMMITTEE
o                              ~~~~~~~~~~HEAD OF
PROJECT                                             REGENCY
MANAGER  _                                          I______.lnpres project
APBN AND     INPRES
CREDIT       AND APBD
PORTION      PORTION
NES I PROJECT
direct/function line
-_ _- _- coordination line
World Bank-17283



CHART 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
SETTLEMENT COMPONENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART OF FLOW OF FUNDS - CREDIT ITEMS
GOVERNMENT
OF
INDONESIA
MINISTRY
OF
FINANCE
.
BANK INDONESIA
-r -* Z ~~~~~~IBRD
REKENING   IBRD
INVESTASI I  FUNDS
PNP/PTPs
PTP V I PNP X
Aceh Smaliholder                   South Sumatera Smallholder
Development                        Development
(Alue lemerah)                     (Tebenan)
World Bank-17284



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
SETTLEMENT COMPONENTS
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FLOW OF FUNDS - NON CREDIT ITEMS
GOVERNMENT
OF
INDONESIA
DEPARTMENTS OF THE   V R       ERNMENT
I r                           T~~~~~~~~~~~
DIP  INPRES  DIP  INPRES          DPINPRE           DIP  INPRES
Governor
Bupatis         PROVINCIAL
Mayors          GOVERNMENT
Camat           SYSTEM
Lurahs
r                          ,               1
.?USKESMAS                        SEKOLAH                    KABUPATEN               GOTONG ROYONG!!
INPRES                            INPRES                     INPRES                   (VILLAGE
(SANITATION, WATER, HEALTH)       (SCHOOLS)                  (ROADS)                 INFRASTRUCTURE)
IX Community self-help projects.
World Bank-17285



INDONESIA                                                                                                                      CHART 8
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
SETTLEMENT PROJECTS MAIN ACTIVITES
1976                                 1977                                   1978                                  1979                                   1980                                  1981
l  l   l                  I      ~     ~~I   l                   l          l_l__                         l__l__l__l_
Directorate General of Estates
Prepare master plans
Approve prolect budgets                                                                                                                                                         l
Arrange SLA to Nucleus Estate
Contract with Nucleus Estate
Appoint proiect manager
Appoint resident consultants
Submit annual work program
Inspect settlement progress                                                                                 -
Further project preparation studies
uonrdinate project financial requirements
Provincial Genernment
Alienation of land
Establish project organization
Prepare project budget                                                                              .
Commence project implementation
Settle recruitment procedures
Recruit settlens                                                                                                                                                                                              _
Ectend 8IMAS program
Nucleus Estate Contractor
Submit annual work program
Commence procurement                                                                           -
Commence rubber nurseries
Commence land clear ng                                                                                  -
Field planting
Settler train,ng programs                                                                                    -
BRI
Establish project bank account
Set up village unrts
Establish settler accounts
Estimate project financial requirements
Government
Funds for pre-finanuc 1977 a_tIrties
Woeld Bank-1 7286



INDONESIA                                                                                                          CHART 9
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
PROJECT INPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ESTATES PROJECTS MAIN ACTIVITIES
1976                                1977                                1978                                 1979                                 1980                                 1981
Activities                          i         l       l_                                                                                              _      _   _     _ l_ll_                                                  _ll_   _l_    _ll_   _}l
MOA Support Staff
Recruit resident consultants
Contract with SGV for MISI
Prepare polity action program
Imprenrnt policy action program
Establish estates Inspection service
for all PNP/PTPs
Contract with consulting firm for
inspection services to PNP X and,PTP Xl
Estates Training Institute
Recruit reident consultants
Prepare new training program
Implement new training program
PNP X
Recruit resident consultants
Commence planting Betung Estate
Tender spem. Betung Mill
Tender specs. Bulking Inst.
Sale P. Alam and T. Bujut
PTP Xl
Recruit resident consultants
Appoint architects for head office
Transfer head office
Consolidate estates
Establish nurseries
Commence field planting
Commence rehabilitation
Government
Appoint permanent staff to MOA
support unit
Convert PNP X to PT status
Funds for pre-finence 1977 activities
Transfer Betung Estate land to PNP X
World gunk-i17287






Figure 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
SETTLEMENT DEVELOPMENT FOR THE
ALUE IEMERAH AREA
5.00 KM.
2 00 KM.
5.00 KM.
CENTRAL VILLAGE          A] - 250 FAMILIES
SATELLITE VILLAGE       -n  - 125 FAMILIES
AREAS FOR DIVERSIFICATION
CROPS
MAIN CROP AREA
ROAD
World Bank 17480



Figure 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
SCHEMATIC SETTLEMENT LAYOUT
3.00 Km._              _          _00 Km _.
A                       B                       C
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H a~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2H
2 Ha
2 Hal
2 Ha
E
Central Village   [                                              Main Crop Area
Satellite Village                                         Diversification Crop Area
_           A - AC    A -A1   C -C1 
Primary Estate Road  D-Dl          Al - C, B1             )             Ese ondary
A1 C1 ~ -WEstate Road
Wtorld Bank-i17481



Figure 3
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
BASIC HOUSE PLAN
F- - ------ -- - -
|                                            ledge of roof overhang
E     I          sleeping          cooking area
E
living area
sleeping area
1  1       3.00 m              2.50m          I
E                               l
C.:i                        verandah                  I
I   PLAN
I  *                    *                * post of main frame
I  _
CROSS SECTION THROUGH LIVING AREA
E
E
J~~~~~
Scale 1:80
World Bank-9511






r U                                       T^riD m bt PID> X (. ( I$P - ik / 97-3S              T o Lhoksemonwe .                                       97 40'
I 00                                                                                                                                                      .
flo~. bolm~ro O0'0  aIh o xoer4  *          97-32'     \S 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i i C      ut
INDONESIA
Nucleus Estates & Smaliholders Project I
Alue lemerch Settlement Area in Aceh
Settlement block boundaries
RoGds
- Roads to be improved                                  S     P                                                                                          Y               A    C     E    H
.Railway\                                                                                                                                             / 
4'56                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A5'
KILOMETERS
0                           2 2           3
-452'                                                                                             MILES                                                                                                                                                   5V  ,
e732                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~97-36                                              9)740                                                            944






IBRD 12724
KILOMETERS                                                                        io105-                                                                     A --                 ..              -                 ARCH 2977
0    2    A    6 MILES0 MAES
Robt                      T  pUN'~. OIL PALM ESTATE                                  Se  ee  ttp                                                           t,o,UTOoo                                                    APS
PROPOSEDGOENET1                                                                                                                                                     o* '  0tV
OIL PALM PROJECT                                                                                         "                                                       h00                     OTtOOO                               .~-A- Ot0
TeIotk   '   Eetoe  10  Toloogbetutu .~  v~otr   ~                           edt, See  p-*i  \1-to' .
-3-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              a 
BENA ESTAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                               5~~R2tKtO                         4~~g/--Potci2bttdtt O
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
J A VA  '$CA
I N    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
N     I'OV9S E-Sto ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ tO.                         ,                           gI






IN2MESIA
Nucleus Estotes & Smollholders ProjectI I                                                                      A    A              5EA
DP.TeP. X  Estate Development
A P.T.P. Xl Estates and imiallotions:
I Cisal,k Baru
2 Posir Warlngin
3 Banter Joyo                                  Anier                  Serang \
4 Ba  Dotor                                                                                                                             n ung  Prick0!
5 SongoWng Domar                                                                                      Tange' JAKARTA
6 Serpong.                                                                                                   -.                      tinegr
7 Pasir Maung
a MM'nteng                                                                                                     .     SE'A             IA
9 Haombeang/ Kloponungal                                                                                             SPE 
10 Cimulang/Bojong Ge4eh/ Cioaas                        Pondeglong                 CisalTkRBaru        Y. 6-  TERRITORY    IAKARTA  /,owon
11 ICikosungka                               J,                                        U      -               _       Serpong       If/                   ,'/                 
13isolak                    >                   sf7 \aka~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cs.ion la Baruj ;gV3
12 Pandolt Gedef-l                LJ- eepn
13 Parakan SaIA'Asolak                                                          onksbtung                                                   Cileorngsi                                  Cik.nwp
14 Sukamrjo                                    2 .0        Bojong                                                                 U/
l 1Cipetir                        PasirWoringin          0 Datar                                 Jasingo              BOloKnlpaUn   1
16 Cibungur4Gen                                                                                                                                 au7
17 Pasir Bdakd/ Canesso                                                      3                                        O_ O
i~~~cienios                  San hy~~~~~~~An       ~tarJayao                                  Cio u.0ambal                                                                 uPakwartc,
/ > k k ^~~~~~~~~~~<Cijosungka                                        )      1llio                     t \A87  ) ' Q
I/ Ciomas               n ' ,/',, ,
<  /  / k P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jondok Gedehli 9, 
19 Art _9                       Muabinuangeno                                                                                                              n e
Damor                                                                                    7A, SuaauMeioa   /.l
sung  I       A7~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bndn
tr}  Ganessla7AX   Pasir BaPdskr M-                                                                     B       a
t'   0      10      20      30      40     50Rod--L R t-                                                                              .---          _5                 )                                   / /7
.KsILOMETERS                     ---+-   Ra|ilwaEs                               S         T                                                   A          V
0           10          20           30            = -  Rvri                                                                           o; 
MfILES                                    boundfary                                     . Ciemas     _            Ar'ranao                                    Roncoboli 
lae ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~arknSia
M.a    iu n                                                                                                 I_. .rI..--
ffAttAN  B1  ^   ffv ff! i5odok1  k  .  ..  2 o'   /    , ___.              Pangalengn
$P.nqa        IIA             e*U           P14ILIPPINEc>        o,h  rdfn                                                                         Sagoront n   ,,'n,n     ^,^-
- y,,,, ,w KILOMETRS       Railwaus
0      10          2~~~0       30                    Rivers       IN
~~~ vo ~~~~~~t~~~~~~~o0t  0  Joyo                                                                                Sordonabo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roncg ol
AND*tTlt  in ar  ioa-sln   pT                                                                                                                                                          Pon . --lacn SrOOipy noenegarnrrinr b  h
MO.Ofs    rMCI    orn  is .Ni4/'       --trntoo  onris           WrdDoiadiufste.la



