A1R3I NM TO
Document of                RElPO1 )i
FILE copy                          The World Bank
FILE Copy                                                              ONETWEEX
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                ONE WEEK
Report No. P-2078-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
October 31, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offielal duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World &nk autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           = Rp 415
1 Rp           =  $0.0024
1 million Rp   =  $2,410
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPEDA    - Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS   - National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS      - A farm inp'ut-credit program
BRI        - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BUUD/KUD   - Village Unit Cooperatives
Hak Milik  - Right to full ownership of land
LPP        - Estates Training Institute, Jogjakarta
LPTI       - Industrial Crops Research Institute, Bogor
PNP        - State-owned estate enterprise
PTP        - State-owned estate enterprise with limited liability
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                    $65 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:                     Twenty years including five years of grace,
with interest rate at 7.9% per annum.
Project Description:       In its settlement component the project aims
to assist 5,750 smallholder farmers by
supplying 11,500 ha of rubber holdings in
Sumatra block planted by public sector
estates. Settlement costs will be repaid
during a five-year period from proceeds
of rubber sales. Under the estate develop-
ment component of the project about 20,500 ha
of rubber would be newly planted, replanted,
or rehabilitated; 4,200 ha of coconuts and
5,000 ha of oil palm would be planted; and
necessary palm oil and rubber processing facil-
ities would be constructed. Benefits to
smallholders have been estimated on the basis
of increased annual incomes from about $250
currently to $800 after year 10 (constant
1976 $). Increased estate production will
generate foreign exchange earnings and higher
tax and dividend transfers to the Government.
While no unusual technical or economic risks
are foreseen, the innovative organizational and
financial recovery aspects of the program will
be closely monitored to determine their larger
scale applicability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign    Total
($ million)
Smallholder Development       11.9     13.6      25.5
Public Sector Agricultural
Estate Development          29.7     24.9      54.6
Technical Assistance;
Training and Supervision     2.8      5.8       8.6
Subtotal             44.4     44.3      88.7
Contingencies:
Physical                     5.3      6.7      12.0
Price                       17.3     16.0      33.3
Total                67.0     67.0     134.0
Financing Plan:
Public
Sector
Bank     GOI       Estates
Smallholder Development       21.7     19.2
Estate Development            34.6     19.3      26.5
Technical Assistance           8.7      4.0
Total                65.0     42.5      26.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1978    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   Total
Annual       12.5    18.5   18.0    9.0    6.0    1.0     65.0
Cumulative   12.5   31.0    49.0   58.0   64.0   65.0
Rate of Return:   The weighted average economic rate of return for the project
is 30%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 1465c, dated October  31, 1977



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $65 million to help
finance a Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:   Recent
Developments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND)
described the recovery of the economy from the world recession and the
financial troubles of Pertamina, the state oil company, and examined some
of the important development issues which the country faces in the next few
years.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-
1973/74)1L, the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost com-
pleted. Transport, power, irrigation works and other infrastructure
facilities, after years of neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened.
Agricultural output expanded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and found-
ations of modern industry - fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During
this period, the annual rate of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic
savings and investment also rose rapidly. With the start of the Second
Development Plan period (1974/75-1978/79), the Government expected that
rehabilitation would be completed and a start made on a course of long-term
development which would assure not only a satisfactory rate of economic
growth but also a wider distribution of income. The first two years of the
Plan were dominated by the developments in the oil sector - the sharp
increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial difficulties.
The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and diversified
investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. With the onset
of the world recession, bank credit became much more restrictive. Pertamina
was unable to roll over its short-term debt and failed to meet the financial
obligations which were falling due. In these circumstances, the Government
stepped in and undertook to assume the oil company s obligations. The repay-
ment of these obligations, along with the fall in export earnings as a result
of the recession, necessitated large foreign commercial borrowing, seriously
strained the Government's budgetary resources and Indonesia's balance of
payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign exchange reserves.
/1 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



-2-
4.        During 1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly following
improvements in the world economy, and rose to a level higher than expected
earlier. Imports continued to increase rapidly, but the rate of price
increase slowed down and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. Most of
Pertamina's short-term debt had been repaid by the end of 1975/76, and
disbursements on foreign borrowing continued to be high in 1976/77. As a
result, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves rose to a more comfortable
level, i.e. $1.2 billion at the end of 1976 (and even higher levels in recent
months) corresponding to about two months of imports.
5.        The Government's budgetary position was also much better in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also rose over and above
the amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of Government efforts to curb
smuggling and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional
revenues together with continued restraint in increasing current expenditures
enabled the Government not only to increase development expenditures substan-
tially but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. The rate of
inflation over the year decreased, from a high of 17% in the first quarter to
only a modest increase in the last two quarters of 1976/77, giving an average
increase of less than 15% for the year as a whole.
6.        In 1976, the domestic economy recovered in other respects also.
The available indicators suggest that industrial output and private invest-
ment rose faster than in the previous two years. The output and prices of
tree crops rose with foreign demand, thus raising the incomes of the producers.
This provided a welcome relief to the small producers, who had suffered from
the declining foreign prices of their produce combined with rising domestic
prices of consumer goods. However, the production of food crops slackened
and rice output failed to rise appreciably for the second year in succession.
The domestic price of rice was kept stable by means of very substantial
imports, which reached 1.6 million tons (about 10% of domestic consumption)
in 1976/77. Early in the year floods, and later on drought, affected both
the wet season and dry season harvests. More importantly, a pest infesta-
;tion afflicted large areas in Java, particularly those planted with the high
yielding varieties of rice, and the area under BIMAS and INMAS (the two
credit/extension schemes for rice growers) remained fairly constant over
the last three years following a rapid increase during the First Develop-
ment Plan period. Rice output also failed to increase because the use of
fertilizer did not rise despite ample availability. The Government has now
relaxed controls on the distribution of fertilizer and set its fertilizer/rice
price ratio at a level that should encourage fertilizer use.
7.          The large increase in the oil revenues over the past three years
has been invested, not consumed. Government development expenditures more
than quadrupled over this period and in 1976/77 amounted to Rp 2 trillion
(or about $5 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation,
development expenditures rose in real terms by 35% a year. Rough estimates
indicate that at present more than 20% of GNP is being invested in Indonesia.



- 3 -
8.        The effect of the high level of investment expenditures, however,
cannot ye. be seen in the growth of the Indonesian economy. In fact, the
economic growth in the first three years of Indonesia's Second Development
Plan, i.e. 1974/75-1976/77, has been somewhat slower than the observed
long-term trend rate of 7.5% a year. The world recession, uncertainties
following the Pertamina crisis and domestic inflation (which made certain
domestic industries uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on
the growth of the economy. Indonesia's growth rate also failed to accelerate
because the economic benefits from investments in recent years have been slow
in coming and because the growth in the private sector slackened. New
investment has been concentrated on relatively capital-intensive industrial
and infrastructure projects with long gestation periods; some projects, such
as Krakatau steel and the LNG, have been further delayed by slow implementa-
tion. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from investments in such
sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc. depends on the growth in
demand which in turn is determined by the growth of the rest of the economy,
which in Indonesia is mostly the private sector. Unfortunately, the private
sector seems to have failed to provide the necessary momentum of growth. The
indications are that investments in this sector, because of the Government's
attempts to control domestic inflation or because of the world recession,
rose only modestly in the first two years of the Plan.
9.        The orientation of the public sector investments was partly
affected by the Government's takeover of PertaminaIs projects in the non-oil
sector, but was also a result of its attempt to raise investment rapidly in
response to the sharply rising oil revenues. It was easier and quicker to
develop capital-intensive projects; plans for several of them in fact existed
even before the improvement in public finances. On the other hand, new
projects in such sectors as rural development, transmigration, health and
education generally required not only innovation but also setting up new
institutions. Nevertheless, the Government views the orientation of its
investment program with some concern. As part of its efforts to rescue
Pertamina from bankruptcy, it initiated a careful review of all public sector
investment proposals and strengthened its control over the direction of
investments. Where practicable, the Government rejected or scaled down
costly proposals. The budget for 1977/78 provides for a larger share of
development expenditures in such sectors as agriculture, health, family
planning, education and regional development.
10.      Reliable data on the recent trends in employment are not available.
The labor force has been increasing at a rate of more than one million
persons a year, but the current level of unemployment and the extent of
underemployment are not known. While considerable investment activity and
general economic prosperity is in evidence in urban and rural areas of
Indonesia, there is no indication that the labor market has tightened or that
the wages of unskilled workers have more than kept pace with domestic infla-
tion. However, the Government's efforts at family planning appear to have
yielded impressive results. Preliminary estimates from an inter-censal
survey in 1976 indicate that since 1971 the birth rate in Java and Bali has
significantly declined.



-4 -
II.        The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and burdensome unfinished investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in the last two years has raised the level of
debt service, which is now expected to reach $1.87 billion by 1980 or close
to 17% of the projected export earnings compared to 13% in 1976. This does
not take adcount of the contingent liabilities incurred with regard to the
hire-purchase of tankers, the exact amount of which is in dispute.
12.       The prospects for Indonesia's exports are generally good; the
principal constraint is expected to be quantities available for export rather
than foreign demand. Indonesia's export earnings, at least over the next
five years, are expected to rise rapidly and it should not be difficult to
meet the debt service obligations and still to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods. However, to maintain the pace of
development, Indonesia will continue to need a substantial inflow of foreign
assistance on concessional terms. In order to keep the debt service burden
manageable, resort to commercial borrowing in the next few years will have to
be kept to a minimum. It is estimated that Indonesia will need $2.1 billion
in new external financing commitments in 1977, and about the same amount next
year, of which no more than one-third should be on commercial terms. At the
meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) in April 1977,
aid pledges of over $500 million from bilateral sources were made. The
likely commitments from those IGGI donor countries which did not pledge, from
the multilateral agencies and from OPEC and East European countries should
raise the total of official development assistance to $1.5 billion.
13.       The heavy foreign debt service requirements will also reduce the
public sector resources available for investment. The net resource transfers
from abroad are expected to decline from $1.56 billion in 1976/77 to about
$640 million in 1980/81, or from about 5% to 1% of GNP. In order to maintain
the high rate of domestic investment already reached, the Government would
need to raise substantial additional revenue over the next few years, the
bulk of which would have to come from non-oil sources. The additional
revenue raising effort is also necessary to keep inflation under control.
The Government has already taken steps in this direction; income tax pro-
cedures have been simplified and import duties are being more strictly
enforced. These measures as well as some additional ones need to be vig-
orously pursued.
14.       The medium-term outlook of the Indonesian economy is good.    Over
the last eight years, GNP rose at an average rate of 7.5% a year, and food
production expanded in step. This rate of growth could be maintained in
future if the rate of investment continues to be high and the orientation of
investments is shifted to less capital-intensive forms. Thus the Government's
efforts in mobilizing domestic resources and careful investment planning
would be crucial in maintaining the relatively high rate of economic growth
and creation of employment opportunities. The Government would also need to
pay special attention to the production of rice, and food crops generally, so
that the recent setbacks remain a temporary phenomenon.



-5-
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which provides productive work opportunities (with resul-
tant increased incomes) for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing
labor force; Major efforts are needed to increase labor-intensive employment
and programs directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and their
living standards. To assist the Government in attaining its goals the Bank
is planning to increase its commitments to Indonesia and in particular to
support projects designed to: improve agricultural credit; rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems; assist transmigration and other land development
outside Java and Bali for smallholders; increase nonagricultural employment
in the rural areas and small towns through the establishment of small-scale
industries; develop the electric power system; construct urgently needed
water supply and transport facilities; expand the national family planning
program; and improve higher education programs, particularly for technicians
and accountants.
16.       As of August 31, 1977, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits totaling
$561.8 million and 28 Bank loans amounting to $1,337.0 million. At that date,
IFC investments totaled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total external debt (disbursed) outstanding at the end of 1976 was
about 6% and the share of debt service was less than 1%. By 1978 these ratios
are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively. A summary state-
ment of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as of August 31, 1977, as
well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are contained in Annex II.
17.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one-third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
nine Bank loans and IDA credits for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
irrigation systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds production,
beef cattle, sugar, smallholder tea, smallholder rubber, agricultural research,
food crop extension services, transmigration and nutrition development. In
the industrial sector, the Bank has assisted in three projects to expand
PUSRI's fertilizer production and distribution capacity, five for development
finance (Government-owned and private) which play a major role in fostering
the growth of industrial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial
estate. Loans and credits have also been extended to the following sectors:
education (including technical, agricultural and non-formal education,
teacher training, textbook production and vocational and public service
training); telecommunications; tourism; power generation and distribution;
transportation (including highways, inter-island shipping and ports); popu-
lation urban; and water supply. Also a loan was extended for a national
resource survey and mapping project and four credits for technical assistance
to aid the Government in preparing and formulating its development programs
and projects.
18.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels.
The Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the cost to the



- 6 -
country of the delays in project execution caused by cumbersome procedures
and the need to establish an effective control system in Bappenas (the
National Development Planning Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank
arranged in 1974 for assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit
(Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring and control system. It is hoped
that the system which is now in operation will lead to better project
administration.
19.       The proposed loan is the second presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia this year to
$80 million. Projects for small enterprise credit, rural credit and electric
power are expected to be ready for presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
20.       Agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy,
accounts for 43% of the gross domestic product (GDP), nearly two-thirds of
employment and close to 80% of non-oil exports. In 1973, food crops, princi-
pally rice, accounted for 65% of total agricultural output, while plantation
crops, including production by smallholders accounted for 6-8% of total
agricultural GDP. Indonesia has a dual agricultural structure, consisting of
12-13 million smallholders cultivating some 13 million ha and about 1,300
large estates covering about 1.7 million ha. With the exception of oil palms,
smallholders dominate in the production of all subsistence and cash crops, and
70% of all farms comprise less than one hectare of land.
21.       The major emphasis of the First Five-Year Plan (1969-74) was on
rehabilitation of neglected infrastructure, especially in irrigation and
transportation, and on the expansion of production in agriculture for both
domestic and foreign markets. The most important single objective achieved
was the increase by 47% in rice production in the five-year period, largely
through a major expansion of the existing schemes for the supply of current
inputs and credit to farmers (BIMAS/INMAS). In addition to economic objec-
tives, the Second Five-Year Plan (1974-79) stresses the importance of agri-
culture in the creation of opportunities and improvement of living standards
for the large rural population, focusing on employment, equitable income
distribution, regional growth and social development.
22.       Any program designed to contribute to these broad objectives must
focus on agriculture. The major problems of the sector relate to overpopula-
tion in Java, substantial underemployment, uneconomic small farm holdings,
low levels of productivity, and a scarcity relative to requirements of large
areas of fertile soil. On Java, about 70% of Indonesia's population live on
about 7% of the total land area. Furthermore, about 70% of all agricultural
employment occurs on the islands of Java, Madura and Bali. Problems arising
from this concentration of population are compounded by the natural increase
in population of some three million persons per year. The Government plans to
alleviate these problems through the intensification of agricultural opera-
tions and the consequent increase in production in Java. It is also recog-
nized that Indonesia's future agricultural development will increasingly
have to rely on the exploitation of the under-utilized resources of the Other



Islands to m-et the needs of a growing population at higher standards of
living, to create employment opportunities to absorb the increasing labor
force and to reduce the pressure on land in the Inner Islands. These islands
of Sumatera, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Irian Jaya are estimated to have as
much as 40 million ha of unutilized, cultivable new land, approximately four
times the existing area under cultivation in these islands.
23.       A major constraint to new land development outside Java and Bali is
the lack of suitable agricultural options for the large upland areas with
soils of low to moderate fertility. On the basis of proven technology, these
uncultivated lands have only limited potential for food crop production and
present knowledge would largely limit their development to the cultivation
of tree crops requiring substantial capital investment. This latter option
is suitable for the Indonesian estate industry, but smallholder development
would be more effectively undertaken in a mixed farming system balancing
food crops and tree crops to avoid settler dependence on earnings from export
crops to purchase his basic subsistence needs. However, until ongoing
research and pilot projects clarify suitable agricultural options for these
soils, their settlement is at present best achieved by tree crops as the
major productive component. The proposed project would follow this latter
form of development and would contribute to the settlement of about 6,000
landless or near landless families while intensifying agricultural crop
production. This would be the thirteenth Bank Group-assisted project in
support of agricultural development in the Other Islands of Indonesia.
The Tree Crops Subsector
24.       Tree crops provide the major agricultural export produce of Indonesia,
earning annually about $250 million in foreign exchange. The total area of
major tree crops including rubber, coconuts, coffee, oil palms, tea and
cloves in Indonesia is estimated to be about 4.5 million ha mainly comprising
low yielding smallholdings. Production growth rates for tree crops in the
last five years averaged 10% per annum for oil palms, 3.3% for rubber and
1.9% for copra. However, recent new tree crop plantings have been less than
2.5% per annum of the planted areas or about 100,000 ha. This rate of
increase has not fulfilled the requirement of an adequate replanting program
estimated to be about 190,000 ha of new tree crop plantings per annum with
rubber representing 100,000 ha of this total and coconuts 50,000 ha.
25.       The tree crops subsector is characterized by the low productivity
of smallholders compared with public sector estates. Although smallholder
tree crops occupy four times the area of estates, total value of smallholder
production is only 2.5 times higher than estate production. Indonesian
rubber smallholders represent a low income group with few means for improve-
ment. It is estimated that in Sumatera, 700,000 families living on approxi-
mately one million rubber smallholdings have only about one ha of rubber and
receive a maximum cash income from rubber of $100 per annum. About 90% of



-8 -
all Sumateran rubber smallholders have incomes less than is adequate to
satisfy minimum nutritional requirements. A large proportion of their trees
are old, low yielding and rapidly reaching the end of their economic life.
However, these smallholders, because of their excessively small holdings
cannot afford to replant their poor yielding rubber and forego income during
the immature phase of their replanted trees. The planting material obtained
by smallhdlders is generally low yielding. Fertilizer is generally not used
and tree crop maintenance is almost completely neglected.
26.       A smallholder tree crop intensification program for Sumatera rele-
vant to the needs of the situation would be enormous in scale when related
both to past programs and to programs implemented in other countries.    Apart
from the problem of scale, operating conditions would be diverse in terms of
location, nature and size of land area for development, the structure of
smallholder production, the level of infrastructure and the availability of
management and technical services. There is as yet no well defined Government
policy concerning the balance to be achieved between new land development and
improvement of existing tree crop areas. Government objectives, however, in
relation to new smallholdings are (a) maximization of job creation at minimal
cost; (b) the provision of sufficient assistance to provide family incomes
comparable with surrounding areas, coupled with opportunity for further
significant income growth through the smallholders/settlers own efforts; and
(c) the fullest possible utilization of farm family labor.
27.       The Indonesian public sector estate industry comprises 28 estate
groups (PNP/PTPs) located mainly in northern Sumatera and in Java with over
500,000 ha of plantation crops.   In contrast to the majority of rubber
smallholdings these large public sector estates now employ advanced tech-
nology and have great potential for crop production. Although they were
seriously debilitated during the early and mid-sixties, management and
technical capabilities have steadily improved in the past several years.
These estate enterprises now employ almost 500,000 resident and seasonal
staff and labor.
Bank Group Experience in the Subsector
28.       Previous assistance to the smallholder tree crops subsector has
included Credit 358-IND (North Sumatera Smallholder Development Project) for
$5 million and Credit 400-IND (Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project)
for $7.8 million. The full program of oil palm and rubber planting by small-
holder participants in,the former project should be completed by the end of
1977 at the present rate of progress which is ahead of schedule. Costs
of the project have increased from $10 million estimated at appraisal to
about $26 million by project completion. Higher than anticipated output of,
and prices for, rubber and palm oil, and improved project development tech-
niques should more than compensate for the cost increases. The project's
return to the economy is likely to be higher than the 14.3% estimated at
appraisal.
29.       In the Smallholder and Private Estate Tea Project, fewer than antic-
ipated credit applications have necessitated scaling down project targets from



10,000 ha to 6,000 ha for smallholder tea and from 3,500 ha to 2,300 ha for
estate tea. The demand by farmers for technical assistance has been encour-
aging. The spread effects to nonproject smallholders have been excellent and
about 2,000 ha of tea have been rehabilitated or replanted using funds other
than project credit. Tea prices at farm level are well above appraisal esti-
mates which is part of the reason why farmers have been reluctant to apply
for long-term credit.
30.       Assistance for rehabilitation of rubber, tea, oil palm and sugar
plantations in public sector estates was given to certain priority estate
groups under IDA Credits 155, 194, 259, 319 and 405. Generally these projects
have been implemented successfully. Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agricultural
Estates Project), executed by PNP X, has progressed particularly rapidly with
plantings of rubber and oil palms in excellent condition and well ahead of
appraisal estimates. PNP X is also undertaking smallholder rubber development
under the Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Concept
31.       The Government's tree crop subsector development objectives are
economic, social and regional with emphasis upon expansion of agricultural
output and productive employment in Sumatera, Sulawesi, and Kalimantan. To
achieve these objectives, the Government requires that public sector estates
with their technical and managerial expertise be utilized as nuclei to
promote smallholder development and that the smallholder settlement model be
replicable and be designed with provision for cost recovery of the on-farm
development costs. These objectives also require the development of specific
public sector estates to prepare them for a future nucleus estate role in
smallholder development. The proposed project is designed to help achieve
these objectives.
32.       The large number of very small farmers, rural landless and a growing
underemployed and unemployed rural labor force dictate that the cost to the
Government per settler family be reduced to a minimum in order to maximize
the number of beneficiary smallholders. The project has therefore been
formulated to utilize fully the opportunities for smallholder self-help and
to minimize Government expenditures on agricultural support, social services
and project infrastructure.
33.       The main constraints that have influenced the design of the
settlement components of the project have been managerial in relation to
planning and implementation of the physical aspects, technical and economic
in respect to food cropping on soils of only moderate fertility, adminis-
trative as concerns estate and settler financing arrangements and social with
regard to smallholder organization and training. The project formulation
provides for the alleviation of these constraints, most of which have been
evidenced in past smallholder projects in the subsector. Firstly, following



- 10 -
Government policy, the public sector estates which have technical and mana-
gerial expertise in, and facilities for, tree crop development will provide
nucleus estate services to assist smallholder development as contractors for
rubber establishment, including land clearing, planting and maintenance during
the first three years and later as suppliers of services such as processing,
marketing and settler training in rubber husbandry. Secondly, the detailed
technology of rubber establishment on red/yellow podzolic soils is well known
and as the lands to be developed in smallholdings are adjacent to established
public sector rubber estates, rubber has been chosen for the farm model as
the cash crop. Close attention would also be given to food cropping activi-
ties with a view to finding a solution to the technical problems of sustained
food cropping practices on low fertility soils, especially in terms of mater-
ial and labor inputs to produce satisfactory yields. Thirdly, since past
problems with project financing have been caused by the use of multiple
sources of funds, each with different cumbersome procedures for allocation,
provision and release, project financing has been simplified into two separate
streams: budget funds from the Government for infrastructure and social ser-
vices, and the provision of credit by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for rubber
development. The administrative burden of maintaining separate settler
accounts and credit agreements has been minimized for rubber development by
providing the necessary funds directly to a public sector nucleus estate for
each settlement area and establishing a standard mortgage for each settler.
Lastly, the Director General of Estates will have overall authority for pro-
ject implementation and settler organization in collaboration with the
Provincial Government.
34.       In addition to smallholder development the project aims to ration-
alize the operations of public sector estates, PNP X and PTP XI. For PNP X,
the main objective is to increase the economic efficiency of its operations
by increasing its area of planted tree crops from 20,000 ha to about 35,000 ha.
Although under Credit 319, PNP X intended to plant 15,400 ha of oil palm
in Lampung, for climatic and other agronomic reasons it was decided that in
general the area was more suitable for rubber development than palm oil.
Consequently only 6,840 ha of palm oil was actually planted and the rubber
planting was increased from 4,000 ha to about 10,000 ha. Under the proposed
project PNP X would shift its palm oil development to South Sumatera which is
better suited to its cultivation. Initially 5,000 ha of oil palm would be
planted, leading to an eventual area of 10,000 ha. This crop development
will diversify and strengthen the financial operations of the estate group.
By 1991, PNP X annual production is expected to be 42,000 tons of palm oil
and 30,000 tons of rubber. For PTP XI the main objectives are the rehabili-
tation of the company's processing facilities, the diversification of crops
so that the planted area of about 25,000 ha will be about evenly split between
rubber and coconuts, and the rationalization of the company by reducing the
number of estates cultivating uneconomic crops and consolidating hectarage in
order to have about 12 estates of economic size.



Project Description
35.       The main features of the proposed project are as follows:
(a)  New Land Settlement - Alue Iemerah. Aceh (an area of about 17,500 ha
located about 89 km from Langsa town in the province of Aceh, suit-
able for settlement of 3,500 families based on rubber development).
(i) Construction in seven development schemes of seven central
villages and 14 satellite villages to accommodate a total of
3,500 settler houses including the provision of water supply
and sanitation facilities, and the equipping and staffing
of community and health facilities in all villages. These
facilities include a village office, primary school, health
post, mosque, community center and project office.
(ii) Construction of 44 km of all-weather access roads, 84 km of
village roads, 14 km and 164 km of primary and secondary
rubber area roads respectively, and 105 km of farm roads and
tracks, to establish a low-cost feeder road system to and
within the settlement areas.
(iii) Block planting and maintenance of 7,000 ha of rubber by PTP V
as nucleus estate.
(iv) Distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops during the
first year of each phase of development within an overall
available area of 10,500 ha, including 700 ha of house gardens;
and the establishment and staffing of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services.
(b)  New Land Settlement - Tebenan, South Sumatera (an area of about
11,250 ha, approximately 75 km from Palembang, capital of the
province of South Sumatera, suitable for settlement of 2,250
families based on rubber development).
(i) Construction in five development schemes of four central
villages, each with a village center and ten satellite villages
to accommodate a total of 2,250 settler houses, together with
provision of the same type of facilities as at Alue Iemerah.
(ii) Construction of 24 km of all-weather access roads, 46 km of
village roads, 9 km and 100 km of primary and secondary rubber
area roads, respectively, and 70 km of farm roads and tracks.
(iii) Block planting and maintenance of 4,500 ha of rubber by PNP X
as nucleus estate.
(iv) Distribution of seeds and fertilizer for food crops during the
first year of each phase of development within an overall
available area of 6,750 ha, including 450 ha of house gardens;
and the establishment and staffing of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services.



- 12 -
(c) Estate Development of PNP X, Lampung and South Sumatera.
(i)  Expansion of the planting program begun under Credit 319-IND
(Fourth Agricultural Estates Project) to include 4,100 ha
of rubber in Lampung Province with related processing and
housing facilities for 1,800 families.
(ii)  Acquisition of 7,300 ha of new land in South Sumatera Province;
planting of 5,000 ha of oil palm.
(iii) Construction of a 30 ton ffb/hr palm oil mill and associated
water supply facilities, expansion of the Bekri palm oil mill
by 20 ton ffb/hr capacity, expansion of the Kedatan rubber
plant at Lampung by 20 ton/hr capacity, construction of a
3,000 ton palm oil bulking installation on the Musi River near
Palembang and of housing for 2,500 worker families.
(iv) Provision of consultancy and quality control services.
(d) Estate Development of PTP XI, West Java.
(i)  Replanting rubber on about 3,700 ha, rehabilitation of about
12,700 ha rubber; and for crop diversification, new planting
of about 4,200 ha coconuts.
(ii)  Construction near Bogor of a latex concentrate plant, consoli-
dation and expansion of existing rubber factory production
facilities and rationalization of estate operations through
closure of uneconomic field, processing and manufacturing
activities.
(iii) Rehabilitation of roads, replacement of vehicles and equipment,
construction of an office and of staff and worker housing.
(iv)  Provision of consultancy and quality control services.
(e) Program Support for Smallholder Rubber Replanting and Nucleus
Estate Activities.
(i)  Technical assistance to the Directorate General of Estates in
planning, project preparation, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.
(ii)  Technical assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture Support
Staff for Agricultural Enterprises to improve marketing,
management, control and financial systems of the public
sector estates.
(iii) Technical assistance to the Estates Training Institute (LPP)
to expand its activities with emphasis on business management
and technical training.



- 13 -
Farm Plans and Settler Incomes
36.       In accordance with the Government's policy, the farm plan is
designed to provide the least investment cost to the Government, while
providing settlers with a family income of about $800 at full development
after recovery of the cost of housing, rubber and subsistence crop develop-
ment. At full development, within a total farm size of 5 ha, each settler
family will have 2 ha of rubber block planted under the project, a 0.2 ha
house lot producing vegetables and fruit under intensive cultivation and
2.8 ha under rotational annual food cropping. A family income of $800 would
ensure sufficient net cash incomes to meet the minimum subsistence require-
ments of the smallholders ($420 p.a. per family of five), provide capital
($380 p.a.) for new planting of an additional one ha of tree crops (making an
eventual total area of three ha with tree crops) and would compare favorably
with the incomes of estate workers in the area estimated at $750 in 1990.
The investment cost per family in South Sumatera would be about $4,880 and in
Aceh about $4,925 (constant 1976 $). This amount includes the $500 estimated
cost of a settler house, with a concrete floor to achieve improved health
standards, and access to community water supply and sanitary facilities.
37.       Land for rubber planting in blocks of 1,000 ha would be cleared by
the nucleus estate, which would also supply planting material and fertilizer
and employ the settlers on contract as trainee rubber farmers to plant,
fertilize, weed and generally maintain the rubber for three years after field
planting. During this period, the nucleus estate would manage the rubber
farmers in groups in accordance with standard estate management practices so
as to reduce development costs to a minimum and obtain the advantages of
modern technology for the settler in terms of potentially high yielding areas
of rubber. Moreover, the risks associated with food cropping on low fertility
soils require that an assured income base be obtained for the settler from the
rubber component of the farm model. After this three-year period, settlers
would be responsible for managing their individual rubber lots with the
nucleus estate rendering advice and acting as procurement agent for on-farm
inputs up to the production stage, and providing processing and marketing
services thereafter. The usual Government agricultural extension services
will be available to the settlers and agricultural cooperatives (BUUDs/KUDs)
would be established in the settlement areas. Inputs for food crop production
would be provided by the nucleus estates until the BIMAS program is extended
to the area.
38.       The participation of the settler in the development of his small-
holding will be enlisted and protected by the settlers receiving (within
six months) certificates of conditional ownership of the full five hectares.
If the settlers' performance in developing the rubber area is satisfactory,
at the end of *three years the settlers would receive certificates of full
ownership (Hak Milik) which would, however, be retained by BRI as collateral
to secure the repayment of settler loan obligations (Section 3.11 of the Loan
Agreement). In accordance with Government preference, a flexible cost
recovery system would be adopted by BRI with settlers repayments being made
in kind and expressed in terms of fixed amounts of dry rubber collected by
the nucleus estate, but adjusted to reflect possible adverse or favorable
price changes on settlers' income. The quantity of rubber to be collected
would initially be based on an assumed loan amount of $5,108 and calculated
at 12% interest and repayable in 21 years including 6 years of grace. Since
the price received by smallholders on dry rubber delivered to the nucleus



- 14 -
estates would be about 70% higher than that from other processors who rarely
pay more than 40% of the f.o.b. price, smallholders are likely to sell all of
their dry rubber production to the nucleus estates, eliminating excessive
processor and middlemen profits. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would cause the nucleus estates to pay settlers about 70%
of the f.o.b. price (Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
39.       The project would be fully implemented over a ten-year period at a
total estimated cost of $200 million. The Bank loan would assist with the
financing over the first five-year period. During this period, project costs
are estimated at $134 million, of which $67 million would be in foreign
exchange. The costs are based on 1976 prices. The provision for expected
price increases, based on estimated international and local price increases,
has been computed at annual inflation rates as follows: (a) for civil works
at 16% for 1977, decreasing by 2% each year to 8% in 1981/82 and (b) for
equipment and services at 8% for 1977-79, and 7% for 1980-82. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been added to the costs of all items of investment
and to the number of man-days of management consultant services.
40.       The proposed Bank loan of $65 million would finance 48% of the
total cost for the first five years of project implementation, and would thus
cover slightly less than the foreign exchange cost. The remaining $2 million
of foreign exchange would be financed by PTP XI from their own resources in
1980/81. The local costs of the project during this period of $67 million
would be met partly by the Government ($42.5 million or 32% of total project
costs) and partly from the internally generated funds of PNP X and PTP XI
($26.5 million or 20%) including the $2 million mentioned above. Since the
implementation of the project would not be completed until the tenth year,
the Government and the PNP/PTP would also meet the total remaining costs, in
years six through ten, estimated at $66 million.
41.       The new settlement components of the project would be financed
partly from the proceeds of the Bank loan ($22 million) and partly from Gov-
ernment funds ($18.9 million). Under financing agreements between Bank
Indonesia, BRI and the nucleus estates, PTP V and PNP X, $35.5 million will
be passed on in the form of a loan ultimately to be repaid by smallholders.
Smallholder loans will carry a 12% interest rate and will be for a period of
15 years with repayment commencing six years after block rubber planting.
The loans would accumulate interest at the rate of 12% during the grace
period, except for the first three years after planting when interest would
be waived. Proceeds of the Bank loan ($20 million) would be on-lent by the
Government to PNP X, at a 15% interest rate.   Repayments would be in 24 equal
annuities starting in 1985 with interest accumulated from 1981 to 1985. The
Government's contribution to PNP X ($15.8 million) would be in the form of
equity. The balance of project costs for PNP X's development ($9.0 million)
would be met from its internally generated funds. Bank loan funds ($14.6 mil-
lion) for PTP XI would be on-lent at 15%. Repayment would be in 14 equal
annuities starting in 1985. Interest would be accumulated from 1981 to 1985.
Government's contribution in the form of a loan to PTP XI ($3.5 million) and
PTP XI's own funds ($17.1 million) would finance the remainder of PTP XI's
development program.



- 15 -
42.       Rclroactive financing 01.2 million) for nursery development, land
clearing, rehabilitation, processing equipment and vehicles is recommended
for expenditures incurred from December 1, 1976.
Procurement
43.       For estate development, fertilizer and chemicals ($9.7 million),
agricultural and processing plant machinery, vehicles and equipment
($23.8 million) would be procured following international competitive bidding
procedures under Bank Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of the imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Con-
tracts of less than $50,000 would be let through prudent shopping after
obtaining at least three quotations, subject to an aggregate of $250,000 for
each PNP/PTP. Civil works contracts for construction of housing ($14.1 mil-
lion) would be awarded after domestic competitive bidding among prequalified
contractors following Government procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Consultant specialists and quality control services ($2.9 million)
specifically employed for PNP X and PTP XI, as well as other consultants and
technical services ($7.0 million), would be employed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Costs for internationally recruited consultants have
been estimated at $70,000 per man-year (including international travel, hous-
ing allowances and local transportation) on the basis of past experience
in Indonesia.
Disbursement
44.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against (a) 50% of the total
cost of civil works and rubber development in new settlement areas, 70% of
the cost of civil works for processing plants in PTP XI, 40% of the cost of
estate housing for PNP X and 70% for PTP XI, on the basis of certified con-
tractors' reports of expenditures; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange costs
of directly imported vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured equipment, 80% of the cost of processing plant equipment
and 65% of the cost of imported farm equipment procured locally, and 40% of
the cost of a few vehicles for project start-up procured locally after prudent
shopping; (c) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of agrochemicals; and (d) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of all consultant specialists, inspection and technical
services and 100% of the cost of local consultants. It is expected that dis-
bursments would be completed within five years of loan effectiveness. For
each of the new settlement components, the signing of a rubber development
contract between the Director General of Estates and the respective nucleus
estate and the signing of a Financing Agreement between the Government, BRI
and the respective nucleus estate are conditions of loan disbursement. For
each estate development component, the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the respective PNP/PTP, the appointment of three
technical assistance specialists for PNP X and of two operational assistants,
one specialist and independent auditors for PTP XI, would be conditions of
loan disbursement (Schedule I, para. 4 of the Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Implementation, Organization and Management
45.       The project would be implemented by existing central and provincial
Government agencies. Overall responsibility for implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of the two new settlement components of the project would rest
with the Director General of Estates in Jakarta. The Provincial Government
would implement those activities (area infrastructure programs) for which
funds are provided through the Provincial Government budget. The latter
action represents a delegation of much more responsibility to the Provincial
Government than in previous projects and is consistent with the Government
objective of involving Provincial Governments in area development.
46.       The Director General of Estates would have primary responsibility
for project and village master planning, preparation of annual work programs,
advice to the Provincial Government on settler recruitment, settler agree-
ments, approval of project budgets, coordination of project financing arrange-
ments and the rubber development by the nucleus estates (work programs,
budgets, expenditures, physical progress, etc.). The Director General of
Estates would be represented at the project site by a Project Manager respon-
sible to the Director General for preparation of action programs and budgets,
supervision and coordination of all project activities undertaken by nucleus
estates and the Provincial Coordinating Committees. The Chief Executives of
the committees would be the Chairman of the Provincial Development Planning
Agency (BAPPEDA). The main activities of the Provincial Government would be
providing village infrastructure, main access and village roads, health,
educational and community facilities, determining food cropping programs;
determining the rubber price to be paid by the nucleus estate processor to
the settlers; and advising on settler selection criteria. Settlers will be
selected on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank which give priority to
landless farmers in the project vicinity, but when these have been accommodated
will be extended to transmigrants. Settlers must have some farm experience,
be married, between the ages of 20 and 40 years, in good health, with annual
incomes of less than Rp 120,000. Technical assistance would be provided under
the project to assist the Director General of Estates for a period of three
years with project implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Assurances were
given during negotiations that the Bank would be consulted upon the selection
of these specialists and that their appointments would be made by February 28,
1978, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 (i) of the
Loan Agreement). The Government has appointed a project manager experienced
in smallholder agriculture for each of the settlement areas.
47.       The nucleus estates, PNP X and PTP V, would have full authority to
manage the resources, machinery, material inputs, labor and finance required
to develop and hand over to the settler potentially high yielding areas of
three-year old rubber. They would be responsible for clearing of prospective
rubber land, rubber planting and maintenance, settler training, construction
of rubber area roads and settler housing, as well as procurement and applica-
tion of inputs during the period of rubber immaturity, followed by the pro-
vision of extension, processing and marketing services during the production
period. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government



- 17 -
that nucleus estates and the Director General of Estates would enter into
contracts acceptable to the Bank for the provision of the above serwices
(Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement).
48.       BRI would channel funds for rubber development to the nucleus
estates and would also provide short-term credit to settlers for food cropping
through the BIMAS program. During the period of cost recovery by the nucleus
estate rubber processors, BRI as a handling bank would maintain settler loan
accounts on behalf of the Government. The Government would bear all risks in
the credit delivery and cost recovery system. Assurances were received from
the Government that arrangements to extend the BIMAS program to the settlers
in Alue Iemerah and Tebenan would be made by June 30, 1978 and that an
adequate number of BRI mobile units would be deployed to serve the villages
with commencement of the BIMAS program (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
49.       The executive management of PNP X and the boards of supervisors and
management of PTP XI, assisted by technical assistance specialists, would be
responsible for the execution of the estate development components of the pro-
ject. Assurances were received from the Government that the functions of
support staff in the Ministry of Agriculture would continue to be adequately
carried out (Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement). The Ministry of Agriculture
support staff would assist the Minister in guiding, monitoring and evaluating
the operations of the public sector estates. The support staff would be
assisted by six specialists in estate operations for three years and by a firm
of consultants to monitor PNP X and PTP XI estates up to December 31, 1981.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the specialists and firm of
consultants would be acceptable to the Bank and that they would be appointed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 (ii) of the
Loan Agreement).
Market Aspects
50.       The short-term price outlook for natural rubber appears to be quite
favorable with market prices projected to increase sharply above 1976 levels
and continued strong growth in demand expected to about 1980. In the 1980s,
in view of the relatively good demand outlook, the price prospects of natural
rubber appear to be favorable.
51.       The Government considers the expansion of the planted area under
oil palm and coconut to be an essential part of its national agricultural
policy to achieve self-sufficiency in the production of edible oils. Total
production of vegetable oils is expected to increase from about 1.1 million
tons in 1976 to 2.1 million tons by 1990 (consisting of about 0.9 million
tons of coconut oil and 1.2 million tons of palm oil). The domestic demand
for vegetable oils is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 5.6%
from 770,000 tons in 1976 to 1.6 million tons in 1990. Exports during the
same period are expected to increase from 400,000 tons to 500,000 tons. To
increase the domestic availability of edible palm oil the Government is
expanding its palm oil fractionating facilities. At present Indonesia
exports approximately 85% of its palm oil output (local consumption being in
the form of soap, detergents, and edible fat products). However, this



- 18 -
percentage is expected to decrease because fractionated palm oil will be
available at substantially lower prices than coconut oil. Even with the
moderate program of expanded planting and processing of palm oil now projected
Indonesia's exports of oils and fats are expected to remain at about 2% of
the total world exports, and this share is expected to decline.
Benefits
52.       The primary benefit resulting from the project settlement components
would be the increased net incomes of 5,750 settler families at Aceh and
South Sumatera from their present level of net income, about $250, to about
$400 per family by year three and to about $800 by year ten. The increase in
the income of these families in the rural target population represents a per
capita increase from $50 to about $160 in 1990. The project would help to
create about 11,500 permanent jobs among the rural target population, at the
rate of two jobs on each smallholding at a cost of about $2,450 per job compared
with $5,800 in small industry and $15,500 in medium to large industry. In
addition, 4,000 casual laborers would be employed in rubber development for
four to six months each year.
53.       Through project estate development, the net annual income of PNP X
is estimated to increase from its present level of $79,500 to $3.85 million
by 1980, while benefits to the Government from increased corporation and
other taxes would amount to $265 million during the life of the project, and
from dividends to total $60.2 million. At full development in 1985, PTP XI's
operating surpluses from rubber are estimated to amount to $23.1 million. The
project would help stabilize PTP XI financially with net profits estimated at
$2.7 million by 1979, and at $26.4 million in 1998 at full development. The
Government would benefit from increased corporation taxes amounting to $335 mil-
lion during the life of the project and dividends estimated at $221.7 million.
54.       New permanent jobs created in PNP X and PTP XI would be about 5,000.
The expansion and rehabilitation programs would provide continued employment
for the 12,800 existing laborers at PNP X and 15,800 laborers presently
employed at PTP XI. The total cost of the estate project component, about
$78 million, would help maintain employment for about 33,600 people (average
cost $2,300/job).
55.       The economic rate of return for each new settlement component is
estimated at 15% at a settlement cost per family of $4,925 at Aceh and $4,882
at South Sumatera, and a total cost for each settlement of $15.32 million and
$10.i,4 million, respectively. Sensitivity analysis indicates that this rate
of re:. rn would increase to 17% if the shadow wage rate for farm labor is
reduc I by 50%. The economic rate of return for PNP X is estimated at 35%,
and for PTP XI at 41% on the basis of total investment costs of $30.56 mil-
lion and $24.04 million, respectively. The higher rate of return for
estate development reflects the sunk costs involved with rehabilitation of
estates. The estimated overall economic rate of return for the project is
30%. In the economic analysis a shadow wage rate equal to about 50% of the
actual wage paid to estate laborers has been included. A standard conver-
sion factor has been included with foreign exchange valued at 125% of the
official exchange rate.



- 19 -
56.       These rates of return do not take account of the nonquantified
benefits in the settlement areas, which include improvement of housing,
health, sanitation and family planning services, settler nutrition and the
multiplier effects on the regional economy of capital formation in the area
and increased levels of consumption expenditure. As the project aims at
replicability for other nucleus estate and settlement projects, settlement
costs would be closely monitored throughout the project period with a view to
cost reduction, physical or technical changes which would improve the Govern-
ment's ability to develop a more cost-effective approach for improving the
livelihood of 60% of the rural population who are in the poverty target
group. In the case of the estate development components, the PNP/PTPs would
benefit by diversification of their crop regime, which would make them less
vulnerable to price fluctuations and more financially secure to continue
their own expansion or their nucleus estates role.
Risks
57.       Although the project would be the first to utilize the nucleus
estate approach for tree crop development and smallholder settlement, project
risks of a technical and economic nature are not expected to be unusual.
The project would rely heavily on the management and technical capabilities
of the nucleus estates for the planning and implementation of rubber develop-
ment, thereby reducing risks to rubber yields and smallholder benefits.
However, approaches to sustained annual food cropping on the prevailing
moderately fertile soils have yet to be more fully developed; resultant risks
could be increased due to settler inexperience. Therefore, the farm model
has been designed to secure more assured benefits from rubber and conserva-
tive yield estimates have been used for food cropping, representing only 20%
of farm income at full development. Assuming efficient project management
and a good settler response, known techniques are sufficient to obtain the
projected food crop yields.
58.       Some of the organizational and financial arrangements to be employed
in the project are innovative and untested. Settler cost recovery in kind
has not been attempted before in Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia or by
the BRI. Given the ability of settlers to repay their loans and a built-in
price incentive to encourage them to sell to the nucleus estate, the element
of risk derives from the increased responsibility assigned to the nucleus
estates as collection agents. The Government, through the Director General
of Estates, would ensure collection, proper account keeping and timely
transfer of funds collected by the nucleus estates to BRI. The development
role of the nucleus estates in the implementation of smallholder settlements
and the management capability of the Provincial Government's staff to carry
out significant responsibilities in such a project are untested. However,
the tasks to be performed under the project have been successfully performed
by estates in the context of their own expansion and maintenance of estate
planting and infrastructure and by the Provincial Government in the context
of ongoing rural works programs.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III of this report.
61.       The following are conditions of disbursement:
For each of the new settlement areas -
(a) signing of a rubber planting and maintenance contract between the
Director General of Estates and the respective PNP/PTP; and
(b) signing of financing agreements among the Government, BRI and
the respective PNP/PTP.
For estate development -
(c) the appointment of three technical assistance specialists for PNP X,
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank; and the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and PNP X, which is acceptable to the Bank;
(d) the appointment of two operational assistants to the President
Director, one consultant specialist and independent auditors satis-
factory to the Bank for PTP XI; and the signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and PTP XI, which is acceptable to
the Bank.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



ANNEX I
Page I of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                 INDONESIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1904.g                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     283.                        1960      1970    ESTIMATE          BANGLADESH    INDIA          PHILIPPINESXX
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                     70.0     110.0      180.0               90.0       110.0      230.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           95.4     116.3     132.1                70.8      547.6        36.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       50.0      61.0       69.0              496.0      167.0       123.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       345.0     411.0      453.0              692.0      308.0       375.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.0      45.9       42.9               50.3       41.0        44.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          25.4      20.6       16.9               22.9       19.0        13.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       125.0/a.b    ..                         140.0         *         80.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       47.5                481                 43.3       47.2        55.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8/     3.2        3.1                3.1        2.9         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.1       2.0        2.4                2.aLa      2.3         3.0
URBAN                                  *-       3.7 /      4.1                 *-         3.2        4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          14.9       17.5 A    19.2                6.4        19.8       31.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.1/a    44.0       43.9/b            46.4        41.6        45.6
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55 3/,a   53.5       53.6/j5           51.0        55.3        51.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.6       2.5        2. E              2-6         3.1         2.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.6/a      0.9       0.9                1.0         0.8        0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4        *-        1-3               1.6 lb      1i1/A       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     259.3LC 6786.2/                   ..   14585.0       354.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..                 ..         *-         2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        34600.0         ..   44200.0 Z          22300.0   218000.0     12300 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         75.0        ..       69.0/C             71.0       69.0        55.0/4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           5.4         ..       5.4 c,e             ..         ..         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..       33.7 /c            16.7       25.0 /b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..       52.0 L             42.3 7     53.1 /b
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .         ..       6.8 iL.-           7.9 N      4.7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .         ..      17.3 7             19.6       13.1
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
___-_____________ _----_______-
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS           48C.0o      ..         ..               34.0/d        .
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          3.0/b       ..        ..                1.0*
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            41380.0b A26370.0    16970.0             7600.0     4890.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..    7630.0/d   7290.0/g          72030.0 7e   220.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1370.0b 1640.0       1420.0            7120.0       1 5120.0    HSO.O
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         89.0      91.0       98.0                 ..       93.0       100.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              43.0      43.0         *                  *        53.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         15.0      14.0         ..                 ..        16.0       22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..        ..                 ..          ..        9.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       59.0      69.0      79.0                50-0 /g    68.0       108.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      6.0      12.0      19.0                15.0          . .      48.O
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                I
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               10.0       12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     20.0      29.0      3 2.0                1.0        6.0 /       6.0 /
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                47.0      59.0       62.0 /C              .         33.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        ..        1.6                  . **                 2.1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHouT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..        ..          ..                ..          ..       76.o
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..                 ..         ..        23.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         .          *-                      .       *       7.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          7.0      114.0      49.0 /              6.0        21.0       45.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0       2.0        2.0                1.0         1.0        8.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           15.0      20.0       27.0               20.0       114.0      235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2        0.3       0.5                 ..         0.3        2.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX i
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
unless otbhreis    noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recen.t Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
*   .lecding West Irie..
noThe Philippi... has been selected ana        bjective country for its geographical similarity and bena-ee of its apparen.t advanoe.d stage of ecomoi
develIopm.eei
lDNOfSfIAl       1960    /a  EcelodenWest.Irian;        lb  1962;     Ic   1951-56;     Id  1961-63;      /a  LA years and ovr, ability to read or write In
either  Lain or na-Latin characters.
1970     Ia  1961-71;     /b   1971;     /c  1968 to 1970;      /d  Including midwives;      Y.   Total, hospital bed teis-plete.
MOlT RELCENT ESTIMATE:      Ia  1970-75;     /b   1976;     Ic  1971;     /d  1968 is 1975;      Ic  Mostly sneaployed workere neobiog their
first job;     /f   i-ose recipients;       aI  Iocloding nidwivec        lb  1972;     /i   10 years aod   -or,
ab ilit y to read or write in either Latin Or so-Latto characters;          /i hot eseparabls    with 1970.
nAUCLADES-H      1970     I  The 1970-75 popolation ireoth rate is abon.saly low doe so the effects ofthe oar of independence ad mes                  ppu1aion
-    -eets across the borders dsriog tbat period.      Pres...tly, the averag      poplattis  groth rate is es timated at 3%
per assia      /b1 Ratle of popolatio     oder 15 and 60 and ave     to tsta1 labor force;       Ic  1966-67;      /d  1967-68;
/e  Registered,sotn all prac,ticig in the cntry-;           If  Oveenmet hospital establinhneots only;           a9  Approotoote
esrollnmns as perceetog     of poPoILaion in h-1l and 11-15 age groups.
114lEIA         1970     I   Ratio of population ondee 15 and 65 and ove       to labor forte age 15 and o-er        lb   1967-68;     /c   Inclodicgi odwf-ec;
/d  196 7.
PRILIPPINES      1970    /a  As Percetage of emPleysnen;         /b  Not including private voctional -choolo.
Fi.7, June 23, 1977
DPEPINITIONS OP SOCIAL rNIIICATORS
Lacld urea (choo J-')                                                                     PLOcolatice1 ear cors1: I Po eeso  - PopulatIon divIded by smber of practlcieg
Total      r Tota  sorface. area camp rln-ie  land area and Inlan. ses.mt d                            f_ena. grduate noreen, "t-ei-ad   or  certifIed    ures   ard
nrt   .- ne  recet eatsiat  f arocriarea ood temporarily or peem -aoeillary parsonn1 wIth tratetng or -np-rlese.
need~y farcrp,paoe, narket & kitchec gardens or to lie talI-m                            Peecai.. ear heaetrs1 bed - PnpoIation dIvded by nmber of hoaPica1 beds
available in poblln and private genera an .d spciallee.d bap ital aed
SEP  ar ceeita fill) - SOP pr copito estinates storre         nark.t prices,                 rahabilitettie cessnr; es.lods. noraing home    and enatameefor
cslcolaed by -seen-sericr        tbhd a World Rant Atlas (1973-75 basIs);                 coatsdia1 and prevetive care.
1960; 1970 aed 1975 data.                                                               Per canita lonely o   canesaI of rasoiremesr) - Compoted Eras enrgy
sqotalet   nfetfo       saplle   s-ailable In contry, p, apItaprdy
Ponolacic   -e ia      cai   o                                                               vilabla soppel lasoupriss d-mesti prndaetbon, imports       esepes.e
Pooale  ed-vear  tIsm      70oJayfirst:        if not  -alIable,  -oarsgn             chcnsI        stc;ntspltsetld            nia    ed    ed,qe        ceoe
of two ned-year oati- mac   I;1.65, 1970 sod 1975 data,                                    in foo   rcsigadIsneI              itiuinteuteet               ene lae
by FA0 base.d on phystologicl ..eede fer noma    activty and holitb coneid-
Pseulaion densit    - e    aaels-Mid-year pepolati oc per square kilom,eter                  ering esvlrsretsl tempetract,body -etgbte, age esd ... diatribhutons of
(15h. betres    o   tota  ara                                                               ouais,edalws             0% for waste as hb.u.eboid leve...
Pseoltion dessty-er.ssure eof astir. lasd - Computed as above for                          Per caPira aseely of erP at   irsm   nr dev.,     rtincnetofprcpt
agricolcoral lscd only.                                             ne~~~~~~~,t suply of fond per day; net sopply of mod is defined aabove;  pt_
mecca fory1 all  nnrtee established by USDA Economic RearhSvcs
fical scacistien                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~Provide fofr a  I embos   ....an. of 60 grone of Etotal proci  pr day, and
Crode birth rate eer thousand,   -vrsge - Annoal live births per thnu--d of                  20 grasofaimal and poles protein, of whIch IS gram        should be asLmal
mid-year popo,latien; ten-year erithmssic avrgsending ic 1960 snd 1970,                    proteie; thee standards are    mar than ths     of 71 grs of toss1 proteic
and fle-yea    avrage ending Je 1975 for moot recen.t as timat.                            and 23 gras of aulmal pinnt       aseavrge for tbn sor1d, propoeed by tAO
Crude dnah rate -e thosend. aversn-oeoa           deacho per thossand of eid-ynar            In tbe Third Wnrtd food lrvyi
.popsltion; cen-yearr .itlos      aerge    enIn   i  1960 end 197   and fiv-             Par cli     rotets asel    fm an_ima    .ad ouls - Prnstci .opply or food
year avrage ending in 1975 for mant recent estimats.                                       derived iron animalsand pulses in gras per day.
Infant mortality rate (/thao) - A-..al deaths of infants under one year of age             Death rate (/theu) ages 1-4 A- noI deaths per thoosand te age group 1-4.
,.per thnusasd lice birth..                                                                 years, to children in this age groop; suggested aatidcorof
Lfe ..e..ta-y at birth (Fyral - Average esber o yer       'nife ' rnlin      at               a-tricion.
bIt;  saly fiv-yea  a--rge- en ding in 1960, 17      n   95frdclp
ing cn_nerieo.                                                               P           Edoation
ire    -p-eerd-ceio  rate - Avrae-abehf.of     ive d.sghtereawasn. cill bear               Adboated enrollmen rtio-        r,mr  eto -1   inrslseet of all ages as Pe--
in her semlreprodoniv         pro   if ob  esperiecee pr.eset age-speotfic                  etg    of P"'.ary schoo-g      oplts;inldsetlrnae                  61    er
fetlit     rates; usualy ft r-year avr     eending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  hot sd,osted for different lemgths of primary educa.tion; forcunrenb
fur deelping countris                                                                    oniversaJeduction,    nrole     nay. ....ed 100% since sasppils       r  below
,Pseultcio  groth rate   t)   - teca_ - C=pood .nn..I growth rates of eid-yesr                r abov   the offica   erool age.
pupulatilm far 1950-0    190-0 a-d 1970-75.                                              Adlueted enrollment ratio - eoay-       hanbol - Composed     above; secondary
Penulcion  ros,c  rate(Xl -sebse-  Copetd lib  growth rate of totaleuain1eoraa                              lat fo      ers af approved Primary iotructiom;
PopoIatiom; different defimitiona of orban arean mc affect -spatability af                 provides gem.eraI, nota.tional or teac.her rrining i- troctionafor popils
dat,   cagneeri.                                                                           of 12to 17 Year    of age  correspon1demeoo      aar      srly     aldsd
Urat  aslns t:  (`1 af tst1al  - Rtio af  rb-m is ctal. pnpsation; dtfferene             Ysara of schoolia ervdd        frtso      eod Ia-Isl      Total1 years  fd
defimitions of srbae area   maY aff   t temerabil iry  of data among -outrisa.             sobseling; at scsodar     J.-I, voctional imatration nay be paretaly1     o
ioslataly eselded.( 
0g:.dstructure  Ceercent) - Children (0-14 years), working-ae    1-64 years),              VoaIoaernint(ofscdr)-vctoalisctasicsd
aedei red (65 years  nd over) as p,,eretages of mid-year popclation.                    technical          t -ssc   rebrpogdrams- wht-ich oprt  lsdspsmd...eitlyoda
iondeendcc     rti   -Eai   Po pceton under 15 and 65 and ovr tn thnse                      deParto,ecte of secondary imectoilooc
efae  5through 64a.                                                                Adolt literacy rac-   2    Litsaraceadls(betradndwI)asp-
fuonamic  eeeedncc ratio -RatIo of Ppoplattoc ucder 11 and iS aed over to.. cotge of total adult population aged 15 years atd over.
the labor farce in age grOsp of15-64 peers.
Easily- zlaooiR0-acte""tors     (mlative. thou) - Cumiati-e omber of acceptors             goosing
of bith-cotrol device     sedr ausice     of oational fanily PI.iaoic  progrn            Proser roo        (orhac) - Average cober of PerosprraInocpe
sIc  netin                                                                           coteentonal dwllings in urban areas; dwelig         ecueen-emnn
family  elansin -.srs (% of married  Paee    Prcentages of nairtd wame     of            str  ursad unoneopied parto.
child-hearing age (15-44 yeara) -hoose birtsb-contre1 devices in all eurried             Ocoid doelee         iho     etepad. an  ()    - ocpied conventional dwellings
sasno ic same age group.                                             in~~J orbam ad rorl aresstutInside or aucide piped satyr facilities
as percentsge Ofiall oc-ipled dwellings.
nte1len be,                                                                                Accessth  to.d  ect~riciy ( a  l dee11imnsl    Convetional dweIlinEs sIth
Total labr forte  (hosand)-Ec Icea""a'Y settee P-r-e   inclding armed                 e1ectrietty in living quarters as percent of total dwsllings in urba.n ad
for,:, and oneploynd bus eaclodieg     oo   e tie,  edanta   et.   dfintosrrlae.
in ear      ...cootries ars net nnpsrhi.b                                                Esra1 dwsIlinge conectd ts electricity (2) - Caspoted as above for rora1
Labor torte inf ag   Msir     ')-   1gtclorl    -a ferns (is farming, forestry,              dwellings only.
buntingan    fishing) as prcetage of total labor fare..
Sel1yed "I oP labor force) -Mnoplnyad are usuall          defIned as person   she          Cosmti
are able adwlig to tabe a job, ot of aijob on a gven day, remined ou                      al    eevrs (ear thas Pop) - All typeso        recei-rr  foe radio    . bodcas.ts
ef a job, and aking wrtor          spcfied nJe.a      period not esceeding one             t genral pubIct per thousand ofi poplton          -lue     ninameed reeee
web; nay set be casparabl     between tametries doe te different defisitions                in countries and in years when regIs tration sradio sets     a  in effent;
afPunoplynd and sorne of data, e.g. , apleymnt       fflie statisttc, sample             data fo r .e.est years nay eot becaparable since      . matbuere   1aoished
srveYs, conPaeary seonployment ines.n.     .lienin.8
Paseesger.n' uct P(artb  eon-) - Passes ger cats nasprise estorcaestiLng
I-ea   distibseiso - Percen.tage of private Inca      (bath in nash and bind)                lestaPih.eroa              aldsamuacs            ere     an  mltar
received by richeat 5%, rIchest 202, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                vebiclee.         -..       ..d.-..t.            .....dii.
held.                                                                                    SEJ..tricity  (kwh/yr net reel - Annul   ons=Ption af industrial, casereta1,
-trib,i..  f l..  -.rip - -rc...g..  f I.d  -.dby -.thi..  10%peblie ad Private s1eutr.ilty In kJIawts hours per capita, gene.rally
Dstihoiso         admerbepretgs                 fln      sndb      elnt1%base.d on Prodactien data, witheot alw                         nefor lossin grids but alla--
and poorsst 10% of land asmre.                                                             ing far tmprta and emperte of electricity.
H..Ith ..d N.trition                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~N-weriet (kg/yr ner rae) - Per .apita annual conamptonin b.ilegras
pepsation   ear physician - PepsILaion divided by nnber of practicing.t.tdf-dn-i                                        r.t.       l..        pr           Pit
physi..an   qualiflsd firs a medical school at    nive rnitY leval.



ANNEY. I
Page 23
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mil        %                        1960 -65          1965 -70           1971-75
GNP at Market Prices          28,146      100.0                         1.9                4.9               7.1
Gross Domestic Irlvestment     6,891        24.5                        3.3              11.5               17.1
Gross National Saving           5,634       20.0                        5.8                5.1
Current Account Balance       -1,257     -   4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS          4,738        16.8                        1.5                7.8               6.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          5,533        19.7                        0.2              10.9               27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                  Labor Force2/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ M            1              MiL         % Force-
Agriculture                    4,221       44.8               30.5      69.0                 138          65.0
Industry                       1,915       20.3                3.0       6.8                  638        300.0
Services                       3,279       34.9                8.3      18.8                 395         185.0
Unallocated                      -          -                  2.4       5.4
Total/Average                                                      . _
9,415     100.0               44.2      100.0                 213        100.0
GOVERNMNT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)                          % of GDP
1976/77*       1975/76                  1975          1974
Current Receipts                    2,904          2,201                  18.1           17.0
Current Expenditure                 1,613          1,247                  10.2           10.2
Current Surplus                     1,291            954                   7.8            7.7
Capital Expenditures                2,070          1,425                  11.7            9.8
External Assistance                   784            492                   4.0            2.4
* Provisional estimates.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1971          1972        1973        1974        1975         1976
T llion Rp outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                      469          695         987       1,452        1,995       2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector               387          333         357         412       1,637        1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector              317          500         908       1,163        1,353       1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           12.8         15.2        14.6        14.8         16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 = 100)     642          807       1,028       1,370        1,640       1,873
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          2.6         25.7        27.4        33.3         19.7        14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                 ..         -14.0         7.2        15.4        297.3         7.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                ..          57.7        81.6        28.1         16.3        24.9
NOTEs All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 = US$1.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
August 31, 1977



ANNEX I
Pase 24
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1974     1975     1976                                               US $ Mil    %
(Millions US$)    Provisional
Exports:                      4351     4738     6033                Oil (net)                       1897     50.4
Oil (net)                   2169     2921     3650                Rubber                           416     11.0
Non oil                     2182     1817     2383                Timber                           602     16.0
Imports                      -4220    -5533    -6297                Palm oil                         132      3.5
Resource gap                 131    - 795    - 264                Tin                              138      3.7
Factor service:              - 210    - 462    - 781                Coffee                            99      2.6
Interest                   -  64    - 178    - 354
Investment income          - 146    - 284    - 427               All other commodities             483     12.8
Balance on Current Account     -7 79  -1217    -0345                    Total                       3767    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment      462      497      432             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               664     2395     2365                                                       US $ Mil
Amortization              -  80    - 322    - 435
Subtotal                    584     2073.    1930               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          10,140
Capital Grants                  62      ..       ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)          - 126    -2250    - 205               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            - 214    -     46  -_375                                       I/
Increase in Reserves (+)       689    - 983      737             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)     1473      590     1494
Net Reserves   (end year)     1472      489     1226               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        4      120      152
of which:  Petroleum         1      116      146
Exports
of which:  Petroleum      2169     2921      3650       IBRD/IDA LENDING (August 31, 1977) Million US$
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                    IBRD        IDA
ThrouAhj!lv 1971              Since  August 1971              Outstanding & Disbursed            346.0      443.0
Throuah JU1Y 1971   Since  August 1971             Undisbursed                        990.1       118.3
US $ l.0 = Rp 375            US $ 1.00 = Rp 415              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    1,336.1      561.3
Rp 1000   = US$2.67           Rp 1000   = US$2.41
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
.  not available
. not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
August 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 25
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan/                                               Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal                                                      Undisbursed
Number    Year               Purpose                 Bank       IDA    Bank/IDA
Eleven credits closed                                         129.4       0.0
194       1970  Second Agricultural Estates                   17.0        0.2
195       1970  Second Irrigation Rehabilitation              18.5        0.4
220       1971  Third Irrigation Rehabilitation               14.5        0.4
246       1971  Seeds                                           7.5       1.0
259       1971  Tea                                           15.0        2.6
260       1971  Second Highway                                34.0        0.7
288       1972  Second Education                               6.3        0.5
289       1972  Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation              12.5        0.7
300       1972  Population                                    13.2        6.1
310       1972  Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)           10.0        0.6
318       1972  Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation              8.5        2.1
319       1972  Fourth Agricultural Estates                   11.0        3.8
334       1973  Second Electricity Distribution               40.0        3.0
355       1973  Beef Cattle Development                        3.6        1.5
358       1973  North Sumatra Smallholder Development          5.0        1.0
387       1973  Third Education                               13.5        7.3
388       1973  Third Highway                                 14.0        1.8
399       1973  West Java Thermal Power                       46.0        7.3
400       1973  Smallholder and Private Estate Tea             7.8        6.9
405       1973  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                 50.0        5.7
428       1974  Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                 16.5       10.6
436       1974  Private Development Finance Co. of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                           10.0       5.9
451       1974  Fourth Technical Assistance                     5.0       3.7
479       1974  Bali Tourism                                   16.0      13.4
480       1974  Fisheries Credit                                6.5       2.5
514       1975  Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                 30.0      28.5
1005      1974  Railway                              48.0                18.5
1040      1975  Jakarta Urban Development            25.0                 6.2
1049      1975  Five Cities Water Supply             14.5                12.0
1054      1975  Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                       50.0                5.4



ANNEX II
Page 26
US$ Million
Loan/                                               Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal                                                      Undisbursed
Number    Year               Purpose                 Bank     IDA      Bank/IDA
1089      1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion        115.0                 4.3
1100      1975   Sixth Irrigation                    65.0                58.1
1127      1975   Fourth Power                        41.0                27.1
1139      1976   Fertilizer Distribution             68.0                12.1
1179      1976   Agricultural Research & Extension   21.5                21.2
1197      1976   National Resource Survey &
Mapping                           13.0               12.7
1236      1976   Fourth Highway                     130.0               120.4
1237      1976   Fourth Education                    37.0                35.8
1250      1976   Second Shipping                     54.0                54.0
1254      1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion          70.0                34.1
1259      1976   Fifth Power                         90.0                89.6
1267      1976   National Food Crops Extension       22.0                22.0
1268      1976   Seventh Irrigation                  33.0                29.7
1318      1977   Transmigration & Rural
Development                       30.0                29.3
1336      1977   Second Urban Development            52.5                43.4
1337      1977   Tanjung Priok Port                  32.0                28.7
1363      1977   Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                        15.0               15.0
1365      1977   Sixth Power                        116.0               116.0
1373      1977   Nutrition Development               13.0                13.0
1433      1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education    19.0                19.0
1434      1977   Eighth Irrigation                   63.0                63.0
1435      1977   Ninth Irrigation                    35.0                35.0
1437/a    1977   Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                     40.0               40.0
1472      1978   Second Population                   24.5                24.5
Total                                   1,337.0   561.3     1,108.4
of which has been repaid                  0.9     0.0
Total now outstanding                   1,336.1   561.3
Amount sold                       26.9
of which has been repaid         0.0     26.9     0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA /b         1,309.2   561.3



ANNEX II
Page 27
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                        US$ Million
Year                                                     Loan     Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8       3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles            2.0      0.5       2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8      0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles            4.5      1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism            11.0       -        11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles            2.0      0.3       2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9       -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devl. Fin. Co.       -       0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4      0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               -       1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles            0.3       -        0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.4      0.1        1.5
Total                                           50.8     10.5       61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             23.5      1.7       25.2
Total held by IFC                               27.3      8.8       36.1
Undisbursed (including.participants portion)     1.7      0.1        1.8



ANNEX II
Page 28
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit No. 194    Second Agricultural Estates:   US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Project progress is good in the oil palm group which has surpassed
the appraisal report target for new planting by 100%. Progress in the
rubber group has been unsatisfactory with only 50% of the appraisal report
target for new planting achieved. Planting costs are excessive and invest-
ment planning weak. The project has suffered from management deficiencies
and shortage of funds for investment. The Minister of Agriculture has
recently made the necessary changes in management of the rubber group and
the Government is expected to review its financial policies, particularly
with regard to dividends.
Credit No. 195    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1977.
Progress has been delayed first by initial difficulties in equipment
procurement and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs.
Project completion will therefore be about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The
rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and hydraulically
adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving with
the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher than
previous levels. The credit is about 96% disbursed and the remaining funds
will finance all outstanding civil works. The estimated project cost has
more than doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in
contract quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satis-
factory because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected
during appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:    US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Overall project completion is expected by October 1977, about two
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties
in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 29
rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation rates
and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been mainly overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds sub-
stantially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about
twice the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher
than those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Credit No. 246   Seeds:   US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Land at Sukamandi will be developed to its fullest extent (2,450 ha)
at an annual rate-of 500 ha, and not limited to 1,600 ha as previously agreed.
Significant results for 1976/77, expressed as percentages of appraisal
estimates are: (a) area under production - 2,020 ha (54%), (b) yields of
rice seed - 2.9 tons/ha (72%), and (c) production of certified seed -
4,900 tons (42%). Due to cost escalations and implementation difficulties,
only one seed multiplication district, Klaten, out of the three planned at
appraisal, has been developed. Total area developed so far is 180 ha of a
total estimate of 500 ha. National Seeds Corporation's cost of production
continues to be high and it is not commercially viable even with increases in
production. Therefore, it will need continued financial support from the
Government.
Credit No. 259  Tea:    US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 5,000 tons. Inflation and additional construction and equipment costs
are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 260    Second Highway:  US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been rela-
tively small despite sharp price increases due to efforts to reduce construction
quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services. Construction work
is completed; however, postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1978
has been agreed to permit payments for the completion of detailed engineering
of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to reconsider
road design standards in relation to those recently developed for the highway
betterment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations regarding
standards for urban portions of the road.



ANNEX II
Page 30
Credit No. 288   Second Education:   US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 30, 1978.
The project is being implemented with minor delay. All civil works
are expected to be completed by September 1977. Twenty-six of the 27 project
institutions have been completed. Furniture and equipment are being delivered.
The expert services are virtually completed. Progress of the fellowship
program and teacher training is satisfactory. The Government has made
budgetary provisions to meet the cost overruns. Disbursements have improved.
Delayed implementation required postponement of the Closing Date by 15 months
to March 30, 1978.
Credit No. 289   Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. The bulk of the remaining work will
be accomplished largely with Government funds. Completion of the project is
expected by September 1978.   The Government has, therefore, requested that the
Closing Date be postponed to December 31, 1978. Feasibility studies
included in the project have been completed and groundwater investigations
are nearing completion.
Credit No. 300   Population:   US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The national family planning program, of which the project is an
integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors recruited
annually and now covers about 15% of all married women in the reproductive
age group. Implementation of the civil works component is now on schedule;
because of the shift in strategy from static to mobile services, and because
of a large-scale Government-financed program to construct and rehabilitate
Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning centers, the Government has
requested a reduction in the number of centers to be constructed under the
project, to which IDA and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(as partners in jointly financing the project) have agreed.
Credit No. 310   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I):   US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: August 31, 1977.
Prior to the original Closing Date which was December 31, 1976, about
$700,000 remained undisbursed and the Closing Date was postponed to August 31,
1977 to allow time for BAPINDO to submit documents for reimbursement.



ANNEX II
Page 31
Credit No. 318    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:  US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to September 30, 1978 in order to provide for several new projects of
ship rehabilitation. It is expected that the Credit will be fully disbursed
by the new Closing Date but that, due to sharply increased costs, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been rehabili-
tated.
Credit No. 319   Fourth Agricultural Estates:   US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be satisfactory, with plantings
of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,500 ha (originally 11,400 ha) and negotia-
tions are under way to finance the additional costs involved (about Rp 7.6 bil-
lion). Technical problems exist in processing and equipment maintenance but
management is taking steps to overcome them. Production, profitability and
costs of PNP X are satisfactory, while the capital structure is to be improved
during the course of the proposed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project.
PNP X is participating in the execution of both the NES I Project and the
Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 334   Second Electricity Distribution:   US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND and
334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays due to procure-
ment problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result the project is
two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties have been resolved
and recent progress is encouraging and no further delays are expected. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.
Credit No. 355   Beef Cattle Development:   US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission undertook
a thorough project review and its recommendations, which included major changes
in project scope and objectives, were approved by the Executive Directors in
June 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 32
Credit No. 358   North Sumatera Smallholder Development:    US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's goals of oil palm and rubber plantings by smallholder
participants should be completed by the end of 1977 at the present rate of
progress, which is now ahead of schedule. Costs of the project have increased
from $10 million estimated at appraisal to about $26 million by completion
date. However, higher than anticipated output of and prices for rubber and
palm oil and changes in project development techniques have more than compen-
sated the cost increases, and the project's return to the economy is likely
to be higher than anticipated at appraisal. No effective mechanism for the
credit-assisted portion of the project has yet been developed.
Credit No. 387   Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Distribution of the first 31 million textbooks has been
completed and they are beginning to be used in schools this year. Production
of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1977 is well under way. Teaching
equipment has been procured and delivered. Project management has been streng-
thened by addition of Indonesian staff to a reorganized project unit, and by
recruitment of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with
UNESCO. Teacher training is being conducted on a large scale but it has
proved difficult to keep the training program in phase with book deliveries.
Project management together with UNESCO specialists are working to overcome
this problem.
Credit No. 388   Third Highway:   US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have
been delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and unusually
adverse climatic conditions. Construction costs are likely to exceed original
estimates by more than 100%, mainly due to sharply escalated prices. Most of
the feasibility and detailed design studies have been completed. The training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and is being implemented by
the Government.
Credit No. 399    West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at t'luara Karang were
about 65% higher than estimated at the time of appraisal. This, together
with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase in the total
project cost of more than 100%. Government will provide the additional funds



ANNEX II
Page 33
required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets in its financial
recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Credit No. 400    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:    US$7.8 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: iHarch 31, 1982.
Fewer than anticipated credit applications have necessitated scaling-
down project targets from 10,000 ha to about 6,000 ha for smallholder tea and
from 3,500 ha to 2,300 ha for estates tea. The demand by farmers for technical
assistance has been encouraging.    Over 3,000 farmers have been instructed in
tea cultivation at village-level courses and at the Project Management Unit
(PMU) training center.   The project spin-off has been excellent; about 2,000 ha
of tea were replanted or rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program
but still under the influence of the PMU.    A marketing study indicates that
tea consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically.
Credit No. 405    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:    US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is on schedule and about 65% completed. The Joint
Sugar Projects Unit is efficiently supervising the procurement and installa-
tion of machinery and equipment. The two PTPs which are involved in the
rehabilitation process are both in a weak financial position and this
problem requires attention. Consultant services are gradually being phased
out as planned except for the sugar research station which still requires a
major input.
Credit No. 428    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 290 ha had been acquired as of May 1977 and
acquisition of another 31 ha is under negotiation. 104 ha of the 129 ha of
developed land have been sold to 83 firms. Factory employment at full capa-
city will be around 17,000 and an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average
in both factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are
profitable. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be
20.6%, is significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is
due to the fact that developed land values are rising faster than the cost
of raw land and development.



ANNEX II
Page 34
Credit No. 436   Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
almost fully committed.
Credit No. 451   Fourth Technical Assistance:   US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 479   Bali Tourism:   US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure for the Nusa Dua tourism
estate, including the hotel training school is under way and is scheduled for
completion in December 1978. The completion of project components outside
the estate (roads) is scheduled for October 1979, about one year later than
planned at project appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has increased rapidly
due to a considerable number of charter flights coming to Bali. Promotional
efforts to encourage investors have been intensified, anticipating the opening
of a first hotel by early 1980 at the latest. IFC is considering participation
in financing the first hotel of about 400 rooms.
Credit No. 480   Fisheries Credit:   US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project on the whole has generally
been progressing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon
is nearing completion. Boat construction is under way and the contract for
equipment has been awarded. The quality of lending for fishpond development
needs to be improved; BRI has investigated this matter recently and and its
report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 514   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:   US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract caused a delay of about 18 months in the project



ANNEX II
Page 35
schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977, the
next four are scheduled for November 1977, and the last two for May 1978.
From a revision of bid prices for the first contract, the total cost of civil
works is now estimated to be about 35% higher than at the time of the last
review of project progress.
Loan No. 1005 Railway: US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and almost all contracts have
been signed or are about to be signed. Project execution is behind schedule
due to initial slow procurement and execution of works. Freight traffic
continued to decline in 1976, due largely to poor service. Passenger traffic
has also declined. Better results are expected in the latter half of 1977,
after the arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and with operations
improved with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the
railway deteriorated in 1976, due mainly to the declining traffic.
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 15 months behind
schedule. This is primarily due to land acquisition problems encountered in
the early stages of the project. Project costs are expected to be about 7%
above the appraisal estimate. The allocation of plots and core houses is
expected to begin in July. Some problems have arisen with regard to the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots, and these are being
reviewed currently by the Government.
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs 25-30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed and the project has reached its construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering and the
establishment and development of local water enterprises are proceeding
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 36
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the fourth quarter of
1977. Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed among the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December 1976,
one month ahead of schedule. As there was a slight delay in the completion
of the related gas project, the gas requirement of PUSRI III for start-up
during November 15, 1976 - January 7, 1977 was met by advancing the scheduled
shutdown of PUSRI II for annual maintenance by two months. Meanwhile, the
PUSRI III gas system has been completed. Total cost of PUSRI III is expected
to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation: US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the past
year. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject systems are
beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance has been provided
in Irrigation VIII to expedite this work. Critical review of the program for
benefit monitoring is under way.
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the expansion of the Muara Karang thermal
power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW generating unit. The
general construction contracts covering this unit as well as the first two
financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded. The project is on schedule
and expected to be completed in early 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 37
Loan No. 1139 Fertilizer Distribution: US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$30 million were realized in the original project. Procurement of an
additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of fertilizer
output beyond that anticipated at appraisal was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is under way and is likely
to be completed successfully by the revised Closing Date, postponed by one
year.
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation which at time of supervision in February 1977
was about one year behind schedule has now speeded up. The contract for
research services has been signed and the key members of the consultants
team are now in position. The executive architects were appointed in
April 1977 and schematic designs for research centers will be ready for
Bank approval in September 1977.
Loan No. 1197 National Resource Survey and Mapping Project: US$13.0 Million
Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is lagging slightly behind original appraisal schedules
in the areas of construction of facilities, procurement of equipment, and
aerial photography, chiefly for reasons beyond the control of the project
agency, BAKOSURTANAL. Construction is well under way at the Cibinong site.
Bids for the first large package of printing, cartographic, and aerial
photography processing equipment are currently being evaluated. Aerial photo-
graphy and remote sensor imagery was tendered in June 1977. Training
programs and the work of expert advisors engaged under the project are
progressing well.
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Contracts have been signed or awarded for the construction of the
first package of roads totaling 585 km and for nine consultancy assignments;
bidding has also been completed for the second package of roads. Progress is
about six to nine months behind the initial project implementa-
tion schedule, mainly due to the unforeseen bunching of many activities



ANNEX II
Page 38
(negotiations for the consultancy assignments, prequalification of contrac-
tors, tendering, etc.) and a general shortage of staff to deal with the
rapidly increasing work load.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project suffered initially an eight-month delay due to late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance. However, since January 1977, no further delays occurred
and good progress is being made in implementation. Designs for all three
subprojects have been prepared by consultants and approved by the Bank. Most
sites have been acquired and surveyed. Construction firms have been pre-
qualified. Tenders for construction of 14 of 24 project institutions will be
called in the next six months. Equipment lists are in advanced stages of
preparation. Eleven additional technical assistance specialists assumed
their posts over the last six months and the technical assistance program is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1250 Second Shipping Project: US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants, most of
which have now been made, has caused a slow start to the project and has slowed
project implementation and disbursements. The financial position of the state
shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, and further deterioration could
cause financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is aware of this potential problem and is considering steps to deal with it.
The project is being closely followed.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, is about four months ahead of schedule,
but the related gas project is experiencing some delay. Efforts are being
made by the Government to accelerate the gas project. According to present
indications, PUSRI IV is likely to be commissioned in mid-October 1977. No
cost overrun is foreseen for this project.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is under way.



ANNEX II
Page 39
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction and procurement programs for the 1977 and 1978 Indonesian
fiscal years are now well under way and there are good possibilities that they
will be completed ahead of schedule. The new extension methods have already
been adopted in all provinces, but on a limited scale pending the recruitment
and training of staff, procurement of vehicles, and construction of buildings.
Loan No. 1268 Seventh Irrigation Project: US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the prequalification for
contractors and consultants and the project is ahead of schedule in the North
Sadang area, in the mapping program and in preparation of the construction
schedule for tertiary development.
Loan No. 1318 Transmigration and Rural Development Project: US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The first village has been constructed, and the first settlers moved
from Java in October 1976. Development of second years program is now under-
way, but may be slightly behind schedule.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Progress is being made in developing Govern-
ment capabilities in undertaking a nationwide kampung improvement program in
the future.
Loan No. 1337 Tanjung Priok Port Project: US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1976 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo, and petroleum products exceeded forecasts
by 20%. Technical difficulties have delayed the award of the first construc-
tion contract. A mission is in the field to review the problems.



ANNEX II
Page 40
Loan No. 1363 Second PDFCI Project: US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 21, 1977.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power Project:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan became effective on June 6, 1977.
Loan No. 1373  Nutrition Development Project:   US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
This loan became effective on March 31, 1977.
Loan No. 1433  Teacher Training Project:   US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan became effective on July 7, 1977.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on July 7, 1977.
Loan No. 1435  Ninth Irrigation Project:   US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977,
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on July 7, 1977.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on September 23, 1977.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
This loan became effective August 4, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 41
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS I PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: two years.
(b) Project preparation coordinated by DGE.
(c) First presented to the Bank (following consultant study): 1975.
(d) First mission to consider project: August 1975.
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: November 1975.
(f) Follow-up appraisal to discuss Government policy changes related
to smallholder development: October 1976.
(g)  Completion of negotiations:   April 13, 1977.
(h)  Planned loan effectiveness:   January 1, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Resident Staff in Indonesia will be primarily responsible for
project supervision in order to help the Government expedite implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) that arrangements to extend the BIMAS program coverage to the
settlers in Alue Iemerah and Tebenan new settlements would be made
by June 30, 1978 and that an adequate number of BRI mobile units
would be established in each village with commencement of the
BIMAS program (para. 48);
(b) that the Government would cause the nucleus estates to pay about
70% of the f.o.b. price for rubber produced by smallholder project
farmers (para. 38);
(c) that the functions of the support staff in the Ministry of
Agriculture would continue to be adequately carried out (para. 49);
(d) for each of the new settlement areas, the following would be
conditions of disbursement (para. 44):



ANNEX III
Page 42
(i) signing of a rubber planting and maintenance contract
between the Director General of Estates and the respective
PNP/PTP; and
(ii) signing of a financing agreement between the Government,
BRI and the respective PNP/PTP.
(e) for estate development, the following would be conditions of dis-
bursement (para. 44):
(i) the appointment of three technical assistance specialists
for PNP X, acceptable to the Bank and on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank; and the signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and PNP X;
(ii) that two executive assistants to the President Director,
two consultant specialists and independent auditors satis-
factory to the Bank be appointed for PTP XI; and the signing
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
PTP XI.



Aremof   ND      ,    3                        97l36'  To Lhoke0...ow..
-, ILO1      A                             97PPU
U,f    I  \    GUINEA                                                 STRAIT  OF  MIACA
.S.                    .  }             I),j 
n - d 1            97 Pg.Sb,  \       J20  (o)\
INDONESIA \~/  <K/\~
Nucleus Estotes & Smallholders Project I/      $             3_>                            /     <
Alue lemerah Settlement Area in Aceh ,/  ) /
Roa ds                   /t                     't 
-Roads to be improved  S  P  C I  A4      T  E  R R  I  T  O  R Y  / X 
:~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
Railway?
500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Nucleus Estates & Smaliholders ProjecOMETERS I
A4u 5e2ra  SttLmenSAea5n2Ael
Settlement block boundaries36-97-0-                              1               9-44






IBRD 12724
O,2    4  4   8 vILOETERS 2o,                                                                                                                 os rT/- ,.,                C      M       A o   2           0'         MARCH 1977
4                               $    A~~~~~~ ~  ~~~~~          ~~~LAYSIA  PPsi,,reLrINE~
0                                        7~~~~~~~~T        ' ~~~~~~~Pod/c O'ec
\R;>>obot                r, I  .; I  -,IL RALM ESTATE                             SPU da. m                                                        .   4150444. -- a- ,4AiMA0FRA949
S..  __ __                                                                                                            .   EWGU SEA
-  ,.                -    .                                               [um u lih ..,o                                                                                     4 -k -.- ;O 
|   9 \ <   g              Z                           X              g            /                            _                                    J  A  v A      s E A     ]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J   VA 5 
V D I A N     O C E A Al                                                                                                                                                N   '              t       /                A+-- ,
Nucleus    Estates & Smailholders Project                                                                                       l        4           I      be                                  S     S t  JIL
P.N.P. X Project & Tebenon Settlement Project ix4<g\bzeun 
Tebanon Settlement Project (_'t/Tma/< 
Pelantations:X                                                              r                                            n                                          Zs
I KedcJon, headquoriers 
-s-          ~~~~2 Bergen                                                                                                                                                                                                 S R\+ TGnn.oL  -
3 Trikora
4 Cisaot
5 RejosRri                                                                                                                    12
B Way Ber.lu
7 Way Limo a
l,Tangkii Serdang
9 Telung Bujut                            I                                                 \            TL;nspod-on
to Musi Landas                                                                                                                     . 
11 Tebenan
12 Bekri                                                                                                    KetoAgung '                    I        -
I3 Pagaralam                               Roads
14 Kalianda                        -       Railways                                                                                    _JP-n
A 15 Natar (rubber factory)                     Rivers                                                                                                         1
It Betung Oil Paim Estate
_7   ~       ~~~~~ QKQi.ndr.k 
0        20       0        zO       SR       100
KILOMETERS
0              20            40            60
MILES0
03                                              104'JAV






INDONESIA                       06'                                                         07-
Nucleus Estates & Smaliholders Project I                                    J A V A S         I A
P.T.P. XZ Estate Development
A  P.T.P. Xl Estates and installations:                                                                                                          6-
1 Cisalak Baru
2 Pasir Waringin
3 Bantar Jaya                    A0njer           Song \
4 Bojong Rator                                       ~.gH
5 Songhyang Damor                                                      To.ger.. G=            ARTA
B Serpong,
7 Posir Maung
6 Menteng
9 Hambalang/ Kiapanungal                                                      nSPE           AKARLTA
10 Cimulang/ Bojong Gedeh/ Ciomas       PnelnTERITORY                                        AK
11 Cikasungka                                             CslkBr 
12Pondok Gedef          Labuho.                         ng s i ng
13 Parakan Salak /Cisalak       S2      k Bojkn R. Ciein
16 Cibungur                              4                          JsPsirW ringin  &CDator  .  Jo5ingo  ,Gedep  Klaponung Il
17 Posir Badak/Ganessa  S           5A       tt       3                            IOAO        141;1-  1/soCeu   l ,>
Muorobinuongeun~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~crul~'                    i   obal
~' 0 10   20mo  30   40a 5040 
19 Artana                                                                                               OMeSnteyngp  ^nrJyo\\ urkro
ILES                b(undrylkosung a                                     og.r
<J Snecio ITntr (s  Ciomas  AMaung 5                                                            ar M  n
j,2    ka t/                              | NEW UINEAPndok Gedeh
I{jN      DON       WJE    \S     T~A                  E \           T                                  A 
>   f--;>     ~~~Cipetgu/ AoCis7)lok
Lnnrpong  *1 Joborio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ukmiu                    boa
A7' 0    10   20 30            4 0 so        Roads d Sen  b'
K.ILOMETERS     _JS            Railways                           IV t/                     \     
0        10      20 I0,                  Rivers-Pise[s  J d  np  edren  or c   b                          rhe
MILES COMILESnbuoso  T ro  --Itternolionol boundaries  WorldyBoCimanktdoinaffiliates.        107c b                 i



