Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13704
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1522-0-ET)
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bantk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00            =      Birr 2.07
Birr 1.00          =      US$0.483
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPSC:        Central Planning Supreme Council
DPSA:        Development Projects Study Agency
MEEC:        Ministry for External Economic Cooperation
MOC:         Ministry of Construction
MOF:         Ministry of Finance
MOPED:       Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
ONCCP:       Office of the National Committee for Central Planning
OSCFER:    Office of the State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations
UNDP/OPS:  United Nations Development Programme/Office of Project Services
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram [kg]    =      2.205 Pounds lib]
1 Frescula [fr]   =       17 kg
100 Kilograms [kg] =      1 Quintal [qt]
I Metric Ton [mt]   =     2,205 Pounds [lb]
1 Hectare [ha]    =       2.4711 Acres [Ac]
1 Kilometer [km]    =     0.62 Miles [mi]
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlce of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ethiopia
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1522-ET)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Ethiopia - Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1522-ET) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower did not prepare a Part II.
This US$4 million project, approved in December 1984 and closed in June 1993, had the limited
objectives of improving efficiency and building selected technical capacities in Ethiopia's Central Planning
Supreme Council (CPSC), Development Project Studies Agency (DPSA), and Ministry of Finance
(MOF), and of funding a few studies. The project utilized a specialized UNDP agency, the Office of
Project Services (OPS), as executing agency for implementing some of the components.
The PCR argues that the project was implemented satisfactorily, had a modest-to-substantial
institutional impact, and is sustainable "from the point of view of finance, technology and institutions."
The PCR does not assess the appropriateness of project objectives.
OED's review concludes that the minimal objectives of the project were only partially achieved
and that the project was characterized by low Government commitment and weak Bank supervision. The
review also concludes that project objectives were of limited relevance.
The main beneficiary was CPSC, through which the Government formulated and implemented
highly dirigiste policies. The project had no impact on policy, a negligible impact on policy analysis, and
limited impact on CPSC's technical capacities. The objective of assisting the DPSA to identify and
prepare projects geared, inter alia to creating new industrial parastatal enterprises-at a time when the
Government was decapitalizing existing parastatals-was of low relevance. The project did have some
positive and sustainable impact in the Ministry of Finance. The quality of the studies financed was
however mixed, and they had little impact on policy or capacity building. Thus, the net benefits of the
project appear to have been minimal, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and institutional
development is rated as negligible.
Sustainability is nevertheless rated as likely. While it is unusual for a project rated unsatisfactory
to be rated of likely sustainability, in this case the post-Mengistu Government adopted an improved
policy, institutional and financial framework under which it retained and put to use most of the equipment
provided and persons trained under the project. Hence, while the benefits remained too small to warrant
rating the outcome as satisfactory, the low benefit stream appears likely to be sustained.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1522-0-ET)
CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                          ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                               1
Project Identity                                                             1
Background                                                                   1
Project Objectives and Description                                          2
Project Design and Organization                                             3
Project Implementation                                                      3
Project Results                                                             5
Project Sustainability                                                      6
UNDP/OPS Performance                                                        6
IDA Performance                                                             7
Borrower Performance                                                        7
Project Relationships                                                       8
Consulting Service                                                          8
Project Documentation and Data                                              8
Some Lessons Learned                                                        9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                          10
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                           11
Related Loans/Credits                                                       11
Project Timetable                                                           12
Credit Disbursements                                                        13
Project Implementation                                                       14
Project Costs and Financing                                                  16
Project Results                                                              17
Status of Covenants                                                          18
Use of Bank Resources                                                        19






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1522-0-ET)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical Assistance Project in Ethiopia
for which IDA Credit 1522-0-ET of US$4.0 Million or SDR3.9 Million was signed on December
14, 1984. The Credit closed on June 30, 1993 after three extensions beyond the original closing date
of June 30, 1990. It was fully disbursed with the last disbursement recorded by a memorandum dated
August 24, 1993. There was no co-financing to the project, except for the equivalent of US$0.640
Million provided by the Borrower to fund local costs. The United Nations Development Programme's
Office of Project Services (UNDP/OPS) was executing agency for the project.
The PCR (Parts I and III) was prepared by the Eastern Africa Department's Public and
Private Enterprise Division (AF2PE), and reviewed by Mr. J. Goering, IDA's Resident
Representative in Ethiopia at the time of project implementation. No contribution for Part II has been
received from Government.
Preparation of this PCR is based on information from, among others, the appraisal summary
in the IDA President's Report and Recommendation; the Development Credit Agreement; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and
correspondence between the Borrower and UNDP/OPS.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1522-0-ET)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to strengthen Ethiopia's capacity to carry out
macroeconomic planning and analysis, to formulate and administer economic policies and
investment programs, and to strengthen the accounting and auditing system. The project was
based on the findings of two assessment missions in 1982 and 1983, and recommendations of
the Resident Mission in Ethiopia. The project was targeted to assist specific functions of
Government within the larger context of improving Government's overall management of the
public and private sectors, and the macroeconomic framework for resource allocation and
increased production and exports.
Implementation
2.    Implementation was, by and large, guided by the appraisal summary. Delays in the
recruitment of advisory experts for the lead and coordinating institution of the project as well
as a change of government in 1991, resulted in extending the project closing date from June
1990 to June 1993.
3.    Successful efforts at donor coordination by the Bank and Borrower resulted in parallel
financing of components at the Development Projects Study Agency (DPSA) and the Office of
the National Committee for Central Planning (ONCCP), though a strategy was not initially
planned for donor coordination. Dispersion of implementation tasks and supporting funds
among component institutions and the practice of direct payments to providers of expert
services presented initial learning problems for the Borrower. Frequent reorganization of the
institutions being strengthened, though causing only minor reallocations of resources, was
somewhat disruptive and slowed the learning processes associated with the introduction of new
systems and procedures.
Results
4.    The project succeeded in computerizing the accounting and disbursement system in the
Ministry of Finance and in training Ministry staff in operation of the system. The associated
studies of the accounting and auditing profession were also completed. However, the
recommendations and strategies, aimed at improving skills and a reorganization of the
accounting and auditing professions in the public and private sectors, are still to be
implemented. Studies for improving the efficiency of the domestic building industry were
poorly prepared and not implementable.
ii



5.     High level managerial, technical and professional staff were trained in the component
institutions, who now provide expertise initially financed by the project. A number of
financially viable investment profiles were developed for the industrial sector. Computerized
information and data bases were established in the oversight agency and used to improve its
efficiency and capacity to further increase investment opportunities. One important area of the
improvements was in the accuracy and scope of the National Accounts .The project also
assisted in developing major policy documents about economic reforms and postwar
reconstruction.
Sustainability
6.     The institutional functions strengthened under the project are sustainable., as long as
those civil servants who were trained are retained in their posts. The functions are basic to the
management of the economy and have been preserved even under a number of reorganizations.
The technology of computerized processing has also been accepted and made part of the
operational methods in the strengthened agencies. The improvements and the trained staff are
financially sustainable from government revenues.
Lessons Learned
7.    The following lessons emerged from the review of the project.
a.     Decentralization in the project design was an innovation. It helped to address
problems at the agency level where problems existed and also engaged those
directly affected, to participate in devising and applying the solutions.
b.    Implementation of recommendations from studies and consultants' reports are
important for project results, and even more so for the sustainability of project
achievements. When implementation of some recommendations may extend
beyond the project life, there is need for establishing continuity with future
lending operations to ensure that actions recommended under a project will be
carried out.
c.    IDA accounting and auditing procedures need to be clear to all participating
organizations from the outset, particularly in cases where the project design is
decentralized.
d.     The procurement of computer hardware and software was largely through the
local branches of multinational computer companies. The experience was
responsive to local needs, with opportunity for services extending beyond
project closing.
.i.i



e.     The Resident Mission was very important for identifying the need for the
project, and in facilitation of communications; however, the time when the
mission's role became unclear, 1990-1993, with respect to leadership for
supervision activities coincided with a significant slow down in
implementation. Despite other factors, it is clear that in a project of this nature,
involving other parties e.g. UNIDO, UNDP, OPS, and where Government
organizations change frequently the Resident Mission must be closely involved,
and their role appropriately defined and staffed.
iv






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1522-0-ET)
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S  ECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name:             Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number:    1522-0-ET
RVP Unit:         Africa Region
Country:          Ethiopia
Sector:           Government - Economic Management
B.    Background
1.    Ethiopia has the third largest population in Africa, estimated in 1982 at 33 million, of which
some 85 percent live in the rural areas and 1.4 million in Addis Ababa, the capital . The land area is
1.2 million square kilometers. Agriculture, the major sector contributes about 50 percent to GDP and
about 90 percent of exports. Coffee is the main export crop, accounting for 60 percent. Other
agricultural resources with export potential include a livestock herd estimated to be the largest in
Africa.
2.    Known natural resources include platinum, copper, potash and gold. Natural gas and
petroleum are also present but ongoing explorations have not established the quantity of commercial
reserves.
3.    Development after the 1974 revolution raised the literacy rate from 7 percent in 1973 to 40
percent in 1981; primary school enrollment increased from 19 percent to 47 percent in the same
period. GDP also grew at an average annual rate of 2.2 percent in real terms for the decade ending
1982/83.
4.    However, the economy was still constrained by inadequate roads and other infrastructure; low
agricultural productivity; heavy dependence on one export commodity; a small industrial base, and
production growth hampered by capacity limitations due to past low levels of investments.
5.    Before the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia had a competent public service staffed by highly-
qualified and experienced Ethiopians. Business and the educational system also benefited from
1



the additional expertise of resident expatriates. However, after 1974, many of the qualified
civil servants and most of the expatriates left the country.
6.    In these respects, Government critically needed technical assistance, training and
equipment to strengthen its capabilities to successfully develop a realistic and well-fornulated
macroeconomic framework for carrying out consistent policies and major investment programs.
Adequate numbers of well-trained professional, technical and managerial staff were also
essential for efficiently operating the large and increasing number of public enterprises and
agencies emerging in Ethiopia.
7.     The needs were consistent with the broader goal of enabling Ethiopia to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve efficiency in the public and private sectors, to
improve the macroeconomic framework for resource mobilization and allocation, and increased
production and exports.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
The objectives of the Project were to:
(i) strengthen Ethiopia's capacity to carry out macroeconomic planning and analysis;
(ii) help formulate and administer economic policies and investment programs;
(iii) strengthen the accounting and auditing system.
These objectives were to be met through financial assistance in four areas:
Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC):
Strengthening of the macroeconomic planning capability of CPSC through provision of
about six man-years of specialists' services, training of CPSC's staff and provision of
computer equipment.
Development Project Studies Agency (DPSA):
Provision of about 36 man-months of specialists' services and training of selected staff
of DPSA.
Ministry of Finance (MOF):
Strengthening of the budgeting, disbursement and accounting systems and improving
the management information system of the General Accounting and Disbursement
Departments of MOF through provision of about three man-years of specialists'
services and provision of cormputer equipment.
2



Studies
* A study, in two phases, to evaluate the effectiveness of the accounting and auditing
sei vices in Ethiopia and to make recommendations for their improvement.
* A Study to review the building construction industry.
* A Study to prepare a detailed framework for the development of information
resource facilities for the CPSC.
D.    Project Design and Organization
8.    The need for the project was based on initial recommendations made by the Bank's
Resident Mission in Ethiopia. An identification mission was undertaken in August 1982,
followed by appraisal in July 1983, negotiations in June 1984 and presentation to the Board on
September 11,1984. Effectiveness was declared on March 13, 1985.
9.    The key design features of the Project included: (i) a focus on the Central Planning
Supreme Council (CPSC) which had responsibility for designing and coordinating Ethiopia's
development plans and monitoring macroeconomic policies and management, and (ii) the
innovation of decentralizing project management and implementation tasks directly among the
various agencies to be strengthened by the project. The project also utilized a specialized
UNDP agency - the Office of Project Services (OPS)- for implementation of the overseas
training component, provision of three key experts, and incountry supervision.
E.    Project Implementation
10.   The overall implementation of the project is considered satisfactory. The decentralized
design proved to be an appropriate approach to project implementation. Throughout the
implementation time period, the project executors and beneficiaries saw no need for
modifications in format, and later in the project's life there was a concerted Government effort
to further improve management and implementation aspects through grouping of this IDA
project with similar UNDP and Italian assistance.
Resident Advisors
11.   .      However, the project did experience significant delays resulting in three one-
year extensions. A major unforeseen factor was the change of government in May, 1991. The
change was a primary cause of the slow down in disbursements, resulting in the need to extend
the project closing date from June 30, 1990 to June 30, 1993. The change in Government also
increased the risk that staff benefiting from fellowships under the project would not all return.
This risk was already evident by February 1989 , by which time there was a 20 percent non-
return rate.
3



12.   The recruitment of advisory experts (particularly for ONCCP) was slow and several
were not acceptable to the Borrower. UNDP/OPS was responsible for nominating the three
long-term experts (macroeconomist, economic modeller and system analyst) allocated to
ONCCP. But as late as February 1988, almost three years after effectiveness, two of the
positions were still vacant., and the third position while filled was not able to perform
satisfactorily, at least in part because of the lack of the other two experts.
Management of Funds and Parallel Donor Activities
13.   Project funds allocated to DPSA were combined with UNDP funds and used for
UNIDO's service to prepare feasibility studies. The combined funds also financed consultant
services to computerize the data base in DPSA. The system analyst/progranmmer who was
originally to be funded for ONCCP was funded under a UNDP project. The Government's
approach to maximizing grant funding for areas originally agreed for financing under the IDA
project was formalized in 1991, when the Government informed the Bank that it would manage
IDA Credit 1522, and two UNDP projects (ETH/87/008 and ETH/87/022) as one package of
externally financed projects, with the objective of enhancing the coordination of assistance to
the central project beneficiaries.
14.   A technical assistance project financed by Italy was also assisting the Government in
areas of economic planning with ONCCP as the Ethiopian counterpart agency. Project
components included design and operation of macroeconomic models for short- and long-term
economic planing; demand analysis; and establishment of an information network. The issues
of removing duplications were discussed between the Bank, the Italian project executing
agency, and the Borrower. with the result that funds were reallocated under the Italian project
allowing extension of the overall work programs being supported by IDA, UNDP and the
Italian projects.
Procurement
15.   Procurement procedures were satisfactorily followed. Computer hardware and software
formed most of the equipment acquired under the project. Specifications were first made on the
basis of speed, memories, availability of local servicing capability, and compatibility with IBM
and existing hardware and software. The inclusion of local servicing capability as part of the
selection criteria was also important, and helped to ensure timely servicing for the equipment
procured.
Financial Management and Audits
16.   One result of the decentralized design was to place project funds with each component
agency. This was appropriate because it helped to avoid some time-consuming clearances
required under the local disbursement system [a system which was itself being improved under
the project]. The delegation of funds management presented some initial learning problems and
separate audits were required for expenditures by ONCCP, MOF, MOC, and DPSA. Also, as
implementation activities and fund disbursements were being carried out by and through
UNDP, UNDP/OPS ,UNIDO and IDA, there was no central location for records, or for
holding local project funds. This "confusion" resulted in one Ministry's records showing
balances for project funds that one audit could neither identify nor confirm, as the project
4



funds were included in the agency's general depository and were not isolated. However, the
Borrower and the project executing agency, UNDP/OPS, properly executed withdrawal
applications, supported by records of previous expenditure, projections, and the requested
amounts, and with the one exception noted above financial management was good, as noted by
the lack of evidence to the contrary in the seven audit reports reviewed.
17.   A government reorganization in August/September 1987 removed the Office of the
State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations (OSCFER) from ONCCP. This change was
accompanied by the transfer of responsibility for coordinating the TA project ,along with the
Coordinator, from ONCCP to OSCFER. This transition did not significantly affect
implementation of the project , though it did not help in trying to get appropriate expatriates
hired and cleared for the outstanding posts, which had not been filled at this time.
F.    Project Results
18.   The project achieved the objective of computerizing the accounting and disbursement
system in Ethiopia's Ministry of Finance. It set up a core system and feeder sub-systems for an
integrated financial management information system for the Ministry. The computerization was
preceded by a study of these systems and a strategy report was prepared in April 1988.
19.   The Ministry of Finance institutionalized the use of the computerized system and
sought to include the Inland Revenue Administration and the Customs and Excise
Administration, the principal resource producing branches of the Ministry. The two together
account for about 80 percent of government revenue. However, their physical location outside
the Ministry created some difficulties for immediate inclusion of the two branch services.
Nonetheless, the studies did develop technical specifications for the computer system that
would be required for the Inland Revenue Administration.
20.   Staff were trained at all levels in the use of the system. In addition to the foreign
training for programmers and analysts, other staff underwent short courses at the Addis Ababa
University, while still others attended in-house seminars conducted by consulting experts.
21.   Assessments were made of the accounting and auditing profession in Ethiopia for its
future development. Recommendations from the studies included increased training at all
levels; strengthening of the local university and other training institutions for this; and setting
up a professional body. These recommendations were discussed as a possible separate project
or for inclusion under the Seventh Education Project. Ultimately the latter project provided for
such a component, but Government did not follow up.
22.   The DPSA component of the project consisted of training, development of a
computerized project-oriented data base, and studies for preparing investment portfolios. All
elements of this component were achieved. Of the six staff members sent on fellowships, four
returned. With joint use of resources from UNDP and the project, a consultant carried out the
computerization of the data base and UNIDO completed a total of 48 profiles. Twelve of the
studies were judged to be financially feasible.
23.   The study of the domestic construction industry was intended to develop procedures
and plans of action to improve the efficiency of the institutions and enterprises in that sector.
5



The study was carried out, but the quality of the report was considered inadequate and the
recommendations were unacceptable to both the Borrower and the Bank. The Borrower's
Ministry of Construction [MOC], the direct beneficiary of this component, decided to conduct
an alternative study.
24.    Under the component of ONCCP [later, MOPED] the project assisted in the initiation
of economic reforms [including, developing the reform document, and policies that are market
responsive]; developing policy documents for post-war reconstruction 1990 - 1991; major
initiatives at donor coordination; the improvements of national accounts data base; and the
training of staff.
G.    Project Sustainability
25.    From the point of view of finance, technology, and institutions, the project is
sustainable.
Financially, the cost of retaining the personnel trained under the project was
already included in the recurrent budget of their respective ministries and
agencies. All trainees were drawn from existing staff. Reasonable increases in
their remunerations after training are supportable by government revenues.
The technology (equipment and knowledge) introduced into the operating
systems of the various ministries and agencies is iargely sustainable through
the skills that were developed at the time of installation. Servicing and repairs
of equipment have continued using expertise from local branches of
multinational computer companies, who were initially associated with the
equipment's procurement. Replacements are also available. In addition, the
staff trained at the various levels [professional, technical, and managerial] are
the critical vehicle for the continuity/sustainability of project results. Of the 43
staff trained, 40 returned, reflecting a return rate of 93 percent. Staff retention
remains a risk, however; and an ongoing program of staff training will be
needed to ensure sustainability of project benefits.
*      The institutional functions which were strengthened by the project are
fundamental to the proper management of the Ethiopian economy. These
functions have been preserved, even through organizational changes (when
ONCCP changed to MOPED nd OSCFER was established and later changed
to MEEC.
H.    UNDP/OPS Performance
26.   The performance of OPS as project executing agency was generally satisfactory. The
handling of fellowships was satisfactory; the identification of advisory experts was slow, but
this may not have been through lack of effort and certainly the situation within the country
6



made it very difficult to attract suitably qualified candidates. (OPS provided significant data for
the PCR, taken from their project files.)
I.    IDA Performance
27.   IDA assistance to the project was consistently intense from identification through
implementation and supervision up to 1989. Between 1985 and 1989, the Association fielded
seven Supervision Missions to review progress and to assist the Borrower in resolving
implementation problems. IDA also exercised critical flexibility in extending the project for
three one-year periods when major unforeseen events [including a change of government]
required it. IDA staff were also flexible in approving reallocation of funds for the
procurement of desk-top computers and fellowships when they were sufficiently justified as
clearly fulfilling project objectives.
28.    However, the slow down in supervision from 1990 to the close of the project in June
1993 was not helpful, in light of OPS's relations with Borrower and the frequent
reorganization of Borrower's institutions which the project was intended to strengthen. It also
left undetermined, the status of implementing some recommendations of the several studies
financed under the project. Similarly, the non-fielding of a final supervision/completion review
mission contributed substantially to the delay in producing a completion report for the project.
29.   It is not evident that the Resident Mission in Ethiopia was very active in direct
supervision when visits by headquarters teams became infrequent. There is evidence that it was
not clear to the Mission that they were supposed to have lead responsibility for the project
during this time, and certainly progress over the last three years of implementation slowed as a
result of this lack of role definition. In other ways, the Mission played a pivotal role in the
project. They first identified the need for a technical assistance project and during project
execution the Mission facilitated the smooth flow of communications among Bank
Headquarters, UNDP, UNDP/OPS, the Borrower and the Kenya Regional Office (which
handled disbursements for the project until November, 1991).
J.     Borrower Performance
30.    As an institutional capacity building project, the design concept was creative in
avoiding a separate "management unit." Management duties were assigned to component
institutions and coordinated by ONCCP. The coordination was strongly executed by ONCCP
and its successor, OSCFER, which later became the Ministry for External Economic Relations
(MEEC). But the recruitment for ONCCP's own component of three resident experts was not
always timely. ONCCP's perception of the quality of candidates resulted in late selections.
This deferred procurement of equipment intended for the experts' use, and contributed to
project extensions
31.   Though no formal Monitoring Unit was needed for the project, the Borrower's
feedback system for the project was weak, particularly relating to UNDP/OPS. The reporting
requirements by OPS emphasized finance and equipment, but were less specific on other
important program activities including fellowships, consultants and resident experts. Data
produced in the process do not easily reflect a coordinated record of project execution.
7



32.    The frequent reorganization of Borrower's institutions, some of which were being
strengthened by the project, was somewhat disruptive. The establishment of OSCFER in 1987
and its assumption of responsibility for coordinating the project created the need for additional
computer equipment which was not foreseen.
K.    Project Relationships
33.   IDA had good working relationships with Borrower's institutions connected with the
project. The Association and the Ministry for External Economic Cooperation [and its
predecessors] were successful in reviewing and removing the causes of delays which resulted
in project extension and reallocation of funds.
34.   A discussion of donor coordination helped to produce a degree of cooperation among a
number of parallel technical assistance projects then operating in Ethiopia.
L.    Consulting Services
35.    Consultants' services were very important because of the technical assistance nature of
the project. They accounted for 44 percent of the person/months of expert services in the
project. Expertise provided by the consultants was critical in rapidly reviewing baseline
conditions and defining follow-on actions for the many component agencies. The services were
particularly successful in the Ministry of Finance where the recommended strategy guided the
automation of the accounting and disbursement system; and in DPSA where a project-related
data base was established and financially feasible investment portfolios were developed.
36.    Similar services were not so successful in the Ministry of Construction. Specific
reasons for this are not readily discernible from the records,. but familiarity (or lack of it) with
local conditions was perceived as contributing to the relevance of recommendations and
strategies from other studies
M.    Project Documentation and Data
37.   The formal agreements were adequate. Together with the appraisal summary, the
agreements provided practical guidelines for IDA and the Borrower during implementation.
Initial broad categories of allocation allowed flexibility in reallocating resources for the needs
of reorganized or new institutions which frequently emerged during the project.
38.    Data relevant for preparing the PCR were difficult to compile. Except for financial
reports, data on program activity were neither regular in timing nor consistent in report
format. Some data were incomplete while others were simply not available. Reporting
guidelines were needed at the onset of implementation, clearly aimed at identifying
implementation problems for timely correction, and the objective assessment of results at
project closing. The lack of clarity as to who was responsible for the credit, between the
mission and headquarters during the last three years of implementation exacerbated the
deficiency in data.
8



N.    Some Lessons Learned
39.   The following lessons emerge from the review of this project:
a.    Decentralization in the project design was an innovation. It helped to address
problems at the agency level where problems existed and also engaged those
directly affected, to participate in devising and applying the solutions.
b.    Implementation of recommendations from studies and consultants' reports are
important for project results, and even more so for the sustainability of project
achievements. When implementation of some recommendations may extend
beyond the project life, there is need for establishing continuity with future
lending operations to ensure that actions recommended under a project will be
carried out.
c.    IDA accounting and auditing procediures need to be clear to all participating
organizations from the outset, particularly in cases where the project design is
decentralized.
d.    The procurement of computer hardware and software was largely through the
local branches of multinational computer companies. The experience was
responsive to local needs, with opportunity for services extending beyond
project closing.
e.    The Resident Mission was very important for identifying the need for the
project, and in facilitation of communications; however, the time when the
mission's role became unclear, 1990-1993, with respect to leadership for
supervision activities coincided with a significant slow down in
implementation. Despite other factors, it is clear that in a project of this nature,
involving other parties e.g. UNIDO, UNDP, OPS, and where Government
organizations change frequently the Resident Mission must be closely involved,
and their role appropriately defined and staffed.



PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No independent evaluation was received from the Borrower.
10



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1522-0-ET)
PART m.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: Related Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title              Purse                              Year of Aral  Status
Education V                    To improve Primary and Secondary   1981              Completed
(CR. 1141-ET                   Education.
US$35.0 Million)
Education VI                   To increase trained manpower,      1984              Completed
(CR. 1520-ET                   strengthen education support services                1990
US$67.3 Million)
Education VII                  To improve middle and high-level   1988              On-going
(CR. 1873-ET                   training with quality and equity
US$53.0Million)                improvements
Note: Also, a Project Prepartion Mision for an 'Inatitutional Development Project' was fielded in May 1990.
11



TABLE 2. Project Timetable
Item                         Date Planned        Date Revised        Date Actual
Appraisal Mission:         July, 1983                               July 1983
Negotiations:              June 6-8 1984                            Jun 6-8 1984
Board Approval:                                                      Sept. 11, 1984
Signing:                                                             Dec. 14, 1984
Effectiveness:                                                       March 13,1985
Project Completion:        Dec.31,1990
Dec.31,1991
Dec.31,1992
Dec.31,1992
Credit Closing:            Jun.30,1990
Jun. 30,1991
Jun.30, 1992
Jun.30, 1993        Jun.30, 1993
12



TABLE 3. Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal   Estimated     Actual       Estimates as  Actual as %
Year         Cumulative   Cumulative    % of Credit  of Credit
(USSOOO      (US$ 000)
1985         800          23            20           1
1986         2100         895           52           22.4
1987         3000          1823         75           45.6
1988         3600         2946          90           73.7
1989         3800         3114          95           77.9
1990         4000         3529          100          88.2
1991                      3891                       97.3
1992                      4723                       118.1
1993                      5131                       128.3
13



TABLE 4 .Project Implementation
A. Fellowships
Or,eanization    Field of Study                 Number of Fellows       Man/Months    Each
Appraisal  Actual       Appraisal      Actual
CPSC           Economics                        6            13         24              12-24
2           -           Less than 12
Computer Programming/System      2           2           12             12-24
Analysis
Econometric Modeling             -           3           3-5            12-24
Development Planning             9           3                          12-2
Regional Planning Economics      14          12          24             12-24
Offices        Public Administration            -            1                          12-24
Industrial Dev. Plng.            -           1                          less than 1
District Dev. Planning           -           1                          less than 1
DPSA           Computer Programming              1          1            12             12-24
National Development             6           1           3              12-24
and Project Planning
Planning and Appraisal of Rural    -         1                          Less than
Development Projects                                                    12
Agriculture Economics            -           1                          12
TOTAL                            40          40          740
14



B. Specialists' Services
Man/months
Organization/Title              Appraisal        Actual
I. Central Planning
Supreme Council
a] Economic Modeling                  24             42*
Specialist
b] Macroeconomist                     24             30
c] Systems Analyst
Programmer                             12            12@
d] Economist/Trainer [GDP]
el Economist/Trainer [BOP]             4
f] Econometrician/Trainer              4
g] Economist                           4
h] Consultancy to develop              4
strategy/framework for
information management-
II. Development Projects
Study Agency
a] Computer Programmer                 2              2
[Consultants Roster]
b] Computer Programmer
[Technology Roster]                    2              2
c] Computer Programmer/
Systems Analyst                        2              2
d] Economists                         30             30
[Project Preparation]
1II. Ministry of Finance
a] Consultant Services to             36             36
develop computerized Ac-
counting and budgeting
system
b] Consultant Services for            30             26
accounting and auditing study
IV. Ministry of Construction
a] Consultant Services for             18            18
review of domestic building
construction industry
NOTE: * Not recruited, but a National Accounts Specialist was hired for 42 man/months
@ Undertaken by UNDP under project 87/008. .No data available on d-h under CPSC; but
OPS rehabilitated CPSC computer for $192,605, 1991-93 and reported US$130,707 for
additional equipment in 1994. Components for DPSA carried by UNIDO expertise with cost-
sharing
15



Table 5 Project Costs and Financing
A. Estimated Project Costs at Appraisal
Component                         (US$'000)
Local            Foreign            Total  Actual*
I. Strengthening CPSC          270              1,840            2,110    N/A
II.. Computerization of MIS in MOF 110            590            700
III. Strengthening of DPSA      60                420             480
IV. Accounting and Auditing Study  60             330            390
V. Construction Industry Study  50                270            320
Baseline Cost                  550              3,450            4,000
Physical Contingencies          30                170            200
Price Contingencies             60                380            440
Total Project Cost             640              4,000            4,640
* Data not available in MIS by component.
B. Project Financing
SDR          SDR
Expenditure Category                   Planned       Actual       Actual as % of
Total
(IDA Credit)
1. Equipment                           420           578                 15
2 Consultants' and Specialists' Services  1,920      2,090               53
3. Training and Fellowships             1,060        1,232               32
4. Unallocated                          500          -
TOTAL                                  3.900 3__1
16



TABLE 6. Project Results
A. Benefits
Appraisal           Estimated at
Indicator                   Estimates            Full Development
Ministries/Agencies to
be strengthened            3                    3
Staff to be trained         40                   40
B. Economic Impact
No Economic Rate of Return Calculated
C. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return not Applicable
D Studies
Study             Purpose                Status              Impact
1. Accounting and  To evaluate system    Phase I completed   Training/institution
Auditing Study    make recommendations  in February, 1986;  included in
improvements           Phase II completed  Education VII;
in November, 1986      Professional Body
still to be organized
2.Building Construc-To improve institutions   Phase I completed   Borrower did not
tion Study        and efficiency of the    in December, 1987  consider recommen-
Industry               Phase II completed   dations adequate
Nov., 1988.       for implementation.
3.CPSC Information To prepare framework   Not formally      UNDP which financed
for developing infor   undertaken         a consultancy
mation resource facilities study of CPSC  computer system
for CPSC with linkages  system in Dec. '93
to other data collection   rehabilitated the system
and utilization agencies   on request 1991-93,
with up-grading in 1994
17



TABLE 7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant Subject                        Compliance     Status
3.01      Borrower's commitment to Project            Complied with.
objectives to implement it
through designated agencies
CPSC, MOF & MOF
3.02      Borrower to designate OFER of
CPSC as lead agency and a Project            Complied with
Coordinator
3.06      Borrower to furnish IDA with
workplan for following fiscal    End of     Submitted late,
year.                         each year     particularly after
change of government
3.07      Submission of detailed training
program to include fellowships   January of  Some submitted late
for 18 months                 each year
4.01      Borrower to maintain separate
accounts of expenditures from  Not later than    Separate accounts kept
credit withdrawal and submit    six months   and audited but some
copies of audited reports    after year end   reports submitted late
18



TABLE 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of           Mon/        Number of  Weeks        Specialization Represented
Projct Cycle,   pXersons
Through Appraisal   1982/83    2           N/A         Economist
TA Specialist
Appraisal through    1984      3           2.8         Economist, TA Specialist
Board Approval                                         Legal
Supervision        1985/9      3           38.51       TA Specialist, Project Officer
Note: On use of resources, not all figures are available: (i) because of the age of the project,
and deletion of MIS data; and (ii) the project was partly supervised from the resident mission,
and thus not included in the MIS system.
12.8 weels were in the field.
19



