Docume  of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIUL USE ONL"
Repuct N.. P-3873-ET
REPORT AIND RECONZMEMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 3.9 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 16, 1984
This document has a estricted disribution and may be ued by meipients only in the performance of
their officiad dutes. Its contents may mat otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALE? TS 11
US$1.00            = Birr 2.07
Birr               = US$0.483
Birr 2.07          = US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS
CPSC                : Central Planning Supreme Council
DPSA                : Development Projects Study Agency
MOC                 :  M4inistry of Construction
MOF                 : Ministry of Finance
UNDP                : United Nations Development Programme
W-IGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg)                                         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 frescula (fr)                                         17 kg
100 kilograms (kg)                                      i quintal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)                                       2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                                          2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)                                        0.62 miles (mi)
GOVERh MNT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr
WTas been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUKMARY
Borrower:     Government of Ethiopia
Amount:       SDR 3.9 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Project
Objectives
and
Description: The proposed project will assist the Government to strengthen
its capabilities in macroeconomic management, and to further
the development of a macroeconomic framework for
medium- and long-term planning.  In particular, the proposed
project will provide consultant and specialist services,
fellowships and equipment to assist the Government to:
(i) develop a coherent and realistic macroeconomic framework;
(ii) introduce improved techniques of economic analysis;
(iii) strengthen project identification and evaluation
capabilities; (iv) improve management information systems;
(v) develop an efficient accounting and disbursement system;
and (vi) provide appropriate training in these specialized
areas. The proposed project will also include studies to
formulate progrAms to strengthen the country's accounting and
auditing capabilities and performance, and to improve the
efficiency of the domestic building construction sector.
Risks:        The main risk associated with the project is the potential
loss of trained staff due to non-return of fellows
undertaking studies outside Ethiopia. In recent years,
however, the Government of Ethiopia has had a high return
rate for its fellows compared to other countries in the
region. This risk is therefore considered to be minimal.
This document has a restriced distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oifical duts Its otents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
(US$ ' 000)
Component                           Local    Foreign    Total
A. Strengthening of Central
Planning Supreme Council       270      1,840     2,110
B. Improvement of Management
Information Systems in
Ministry of Finance            110        590       700
C. Strengthening of Development
Projects Study Agency           60        420       480
D. Accounting & Auditing Study      60        330       390
E. Building Construction
Industry Study                  50        270       320
Tfotal Baseline Cost            550      3,450     4,000
_ 
Physical Contingencies           30        170       200
Price Contingencies              60        380       440
Total Project Cost              640      4,000     4,640
-                  m
(of which taxes and duties)    (97)       -          (97)
Total Project Cost (net
of taxes and duties)           543     4,000      4,543
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                         -        4,000     4,000
Government of Ethiopia             640        -         640
Total                           640      4,000     4,640
Estimated Disbursements
(USS '000)
IDA FY                      1985     1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual                    800    1,300      900     600      200     200
Cumulative                800    2,100   3,000   3,600   3,800   4,000
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: None.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 3.9 million (US$4.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a technical assistance
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683a-ET) entitled
Ethiopia, Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects, was circulated
to the Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's findings are
reflected in the following paragraphs. A summary of social and economic
data is included in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        Ethiopia, with a population estimated at about 33 million in
1982, is the third most populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and
Egypt). About 85 percent of the total population is rural. The country's
land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be broadly
divided into two main geographical zones, namely: the highland plateau of
central Ethiopia, and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital city, Addis
Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population estimated at
around 1.4 million.
4.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the country's economy, accounting
for about 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of exports, and 85 percent of total
employment. The major food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal),
maize, barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal
export crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings.
Other export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years. Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and potash. Some
petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no petroleum
reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been exploited
on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by



- 2 -
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less. Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry.
Handicrafts and small industry are operated by private owners. Domestic
trade, especially retail trade, and road transport are still largely in
private hands. Public sector control and ownership covers all of banking
and insurance, shipping, railway, airways, utilities, almost all of
large-scale manufacturing, and a large proportion of construction.
5.        With an estimated GNP per capita of around US$140 (1982) and with
a vast proportion of the population (estimated at around 60 percent) living
below the absolute poverty level, Ethiopia remains amongst the poorest
countries in the world. Over the past decade, value added in agriculture
grew at only around 1.1 percent per annum, compared with a population
growth rate of 2.5 percent per annum. Problems are bound to be aggravated
by the projected population growth rate of 2.8 percent per annum. An
estimated three million people displaced by military conflicts and
persistent droughts call for relief and rehabilitation. Health services in
Ethiopia are limited and require major improvements to combat high rates of
morbidity, and infant and maternal mortality. Life expectancy is still at
a low level of about 46 years. Housing and sanitation facilities,
especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent attention.
Notwithstanding the country's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation and economic development in general. Nearly three-quarters
of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-weather roads.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 percent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the same
period. Agrarian reforms, in addition, have led to increased food
consumption in rural areas and to a more egalitarian distribution of
incomes. These achievements have not, however, been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1982/83, the gross
domestic product grew at an average annual rate of only 2.2 percent in real
terms.
7.        The years 1974/75 through 1977178 were marked by internal
political upheaval and armed conflicts which resulted in stagnation and in
some cases even declines of production in the commodity producing sectors.
The economy recovered thereafter, with GDP growth averaging 5.4 percent per
annum during 1978/79 and 1979/80. Annual development campaigns (or
Zemetchas) paved the way for this recovery through a target-setting and
monitoring process, combined with increased budgetary allocations to
agriculture and industry. Growth occurred mainly in agriculture, which
benefited from good weather, and from industry, through a greater



- 3 -
utilization of industrial capacity. The economy, however, witnessed a
set-back during the following three years ending 1982/83, with GDP growth
declining to around 2.9 percent per annum; the decline would have been
more severe but for a moderate recovery in 1982183. The principal causes
for this set-back were droughts which affected agriculture, and capacity
constraints (notably in industry), owing to low rates of investment in the
past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has remained for many years
below 11 percent, due largely to constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. Domestic savings, which had averaged around 4 percent
of GDP in the recent past, fell below 3 percent during 1981/82 and
1982/83. In addition, inflows of official development assistance have
remained low in recent years, averaging only around US$6 per capita as
compared to over US$20 per capita for developing countries in Africa.
8.        Ethiopia also experienced a sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade in recent years. The terms of trade index (1979/80 base) declined by
about 27 percent during the three-year period ending 1982/83, reflecting
mainly the decline in coffee prices and increased import prices. The value
of imports rose significantly in recent years while the value of exports
declined (see Annex I). Consequently, the current account deficit widened
to about 7 percent of GDP in 1981/82 and 1982/83. These external account
deficits were financed by significant increases in long-term capital,
reflecting in large part disbursements of concessional loans from various
sources, and also by a moderate increase in grant aid. Ethiopia's external
debt service ratio, which had been of the order of 6 percent of export
earnings in the late 1970s, increased sharply to about 11 percent in
1982/83, as export earnings declined and more debt service payments fell
due.
9.        Notwithstanding these adverse trends, government fiscal and
monetary management has been prudent.   The country has a relatively
competent public service and in general, its ministries, departments and
public enterprises are well managed. There has been little evidence of
luxury consumption, and public investment levels were manageable up to
1981/82. The overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for
the period 1978/79 to 1981/82 and modest current account surpluses were
achieved in these years. But during 1982/83, the overall budget deficit
rose to a level equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, principally due to a
near doubling of capital expenditure and an increase in current
expenditure, reflecting in large part a government decision to settle
arrears due to parastatals in one year. The trend was similar in regard to
money supply. During the three-year period ending June 1982, money supply
increased by around 8.5 percent per year. But during the year 1982/83,
money supply increased by over 15 percent. Net credit to the Government
expanded by 68 percent in 1982/83 owing to the massive increase in
government financing requirements. Meanwhile, net credit to the private
sector declined by about 10 percent in 1982/83. The inflation rate (as
measured by the Addis Ababa retail price index) dropped from an average of
13 percent during 1978/79 and 1979/80 to about 4 percent during the three
year period ending 1982/83.



-4-
10.       The Government has taken a number of decisions since late 1982 to
reverse these deteriorating trends. With a view to introducing a
short-term focus, the Government's ten-year plan is to be phased into three
sub-plans - a two-year plan, a three-year plan and a five-year plan.
Official pronouncements have stressed the importance of revitalizing
agriculture through guaranteed producer prices and diffusion of improved
technology to farmers; the need to restore confidence amongst entrepreneurs
engaged in smll scale industry; and the need to attract foreign investment
and technology to develop the country's resources.
11.       Senior government officials were reassigned in April 1983, with
the intent of strengthening the key ministries concerned with economic
development. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code
introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign
investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the
formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of direct
and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more income-elastic. Since
1978, a Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) chaired by the Head of
State has been responsible for the preparation, approval, and oversight of
economic plans, while a Council of Ministers has been responsible for
implementation. In April 1983, the Government introduced measures that
reduced the degree of centralized planning and the authority of the CPSC,
and streamlined government institutions and authority relationships along
more traditional lines.
12.       Although the above-mentioned initiatives by the Government are
steps in the right direction, there are several issues which require
attention. In regard to macroeconomic planning and management, it is yet
unclear as to how the projected levels of investment are to be financed,
given the low domestic savings rate and limited inflow of official
development assistance (para 7). While overall budgetary deficits reflect
prudent financial zanagement, they also indicate limited success in
attracting external concessionary assistance. Likewise, with the value of
merchandise imports running at double the value of merchandise exports, a
major expansion in exports and restraints on imports and/or import
substitution are called for, in order to reach a more sustainable external
current account deficit. According to the IMF, Ethiopia's real effective
exchange rate appreciated by about 37.5 percent against the currency of
major trading partners during the period January 1975 to December 1982.
The overvalued exchange rate and the lack of an effective package of export
incentives have tended to reduce producer margins in local currency and
have inhibited the growth of exports.
13.       As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Although some
initiatives have been made towards improving the Government's agricultural
and marketing policies, to date these have not been translated into
incentives for farmers to expand production and marketed surplus. Other
constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of



-5-
the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate does not appear to
be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry. All
sectors are also affected by the shortage of skilled manpower.
Medium-Term Prospects
14.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee), a small industrial base, and shortages of
skilled manpower. Apart from this set of unfavorable initial conditions,
the availability of domestic resources for investment is constrained by the
Government's outlays on internal security, while import capacity is
constrained by the continuing deterioration in the terms of trade and by
low levels of external resource transfers. Moreover, the recent recession
in industrialized countries has inter alia inhibited the expansion of
non-coffee exports. Further, production growth in industry is running up
against capacity constraints due to the low levels of investment in the
past.
15.       The need now is for a medium-term approach to development, and
for actions to accelerate the pace of economic growth. With a record of
generally satisfactory demand management, Ethiopia needs to orient economic
policy towards expanding the directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, and to increase economic efficiency in the use of
resources. There is a need to develop a more realistic macroeconomic
framework for the Government's forthcoming two and three year plans and to
present well balanced portfolios of viable projects within these plans.
The financing of increased public investment would call for greater efforts
in domestic as well as external resource mobilization. The marketing
framevork and incentive structure in the agricultural sector need to be
improved in order to step up agricultural growth, and the business climate
for private small-scale enterprises, particularly in industry, should be
made more favorable for increased investment, output and exports. In
general, the authorities should consider making greater and more flexible
use of macro-level policy instruments (e.g. exchange rate and wage
policies) and less use of direct, administrative controls. The attainment
of higher growth rates will also depend on raising the operational
efficiency of public enterprises and on alleviating skilled manpower
shortages. Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of Ethiopia's economic policy-makers,
conditions exist for a GDP growth rate of 3-4 percent per annum over the
medium-term and for gradually improving the living standards of the
population provided the GovernDment makes a concerted effort to increase
investment and to pursue policies which foster growth and development.
External Assistance
16.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no major
traditional source of technical and financial assistance. The Bank Group
was for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent
years the European Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the



- 6 -
Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, and Czechoslovakia have
expanded their support, while development assistance is continuing from
Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. The level of
concessionary aid to Ethiopia has been very low (para.7). Ethiopia,
however, is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly in view of the country's poverty, low level of savings and
weak balance of payments position. Within the limits imposed by its
perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has -
dLrected available resources towards economic and social development; it
has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of non-essentials, and
increased taxes significantly.
17.    According to debt information provided by the Government to the
Bank's Debt Reporting System, the total debt outstanding and disbursed was
about US$1.1 billion as of June 30, 1983. The ratio of Ethiopia's debt
service to export earnings remained low (para 8) because of the relatively
low level of external loan commitments, and the tendency of some donors to
shift to support on grant terms. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and
Japan have concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. The
U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has
provided Trust Fund loans and assintance under the Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF). By July 1982, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust
Fund stood at SDR 26 million equivalent and drawings under the CFF stood at
about SDR 54 million. In May 1981, an IMF stand-by arrangement for
Ethiopia in an amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved to
support an 18-month program designed to strengthen overall fiscal
performance and help improve the balance of payments. This standby was
fully disbursed and its performance criteria were met. No formal request
for further IMF assistance has been made to date.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$702
million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1984, consisting of 31 IDA
credits totalling about US$577 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978.  Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption
in nev lending (para. 23). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms
only.  IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
June 30, 1983 is estimated at about 4 percent, and IDA's at 29 percent.
Their shares of total debt service in FY1983 are estimated at about 9
percent and 4 percent, respectively.
19.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. Since 1973, eleven credits totalling
US$208 million have supported agricultural production and marketing, and
some attracted co-financing or other complementary assistance. Credit
1088-ET of February 2, 1981, together with co-financing from Sweden and the



- 7 -
International Fund for Agricultural Development, is assisting the
agricultural minimum package program, which represents the core of the
Government's efforts to assist peasant agriculture. A recent credit
(Credit 1429-ET of March 23, 1984) is assisting the Government to increase
the country's foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports through
improvements to coffee processing and marketing. In addition, the last
four credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported
educational development. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments.
20.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In
recent years, security problems affected three of our agricultural
projects, but two of them eventually made satisfactory progress. Projects
sometimes suffer from management problems, but those in the highways and
education sectors particularly continue to have strong management.
Financial problems, rising labor costs and occasional shortages of
construction materials have also detracted from efficient project
implementation on occasion. However, our experience has been that the
Government and the project managements have generally been successful in
resolving these problems. In addition, the economic and social reforms
introduced since 1974 necessitated structural and operational changes in a
number of projects. In some cases, the changes were beneficial and in
others detrimental. For example, the scope of the first Coffee Processing
Project was widened as a result of the land reform and the take-over of
washing stations, whereas the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project
experienced production losses following the take-over of some farms by
peasant associations.
21.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was
about equal to the Bank-wide average and above the average for the Eastern
Africa Region.
22.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
resource mobilization and allocation, and to increase production and
exports.   In our economic and sector work, we have been carrying out
studies of the agricultural sector, including a joint study with the
Government on farmers' incentives and marketing efficiency, and also
studies of the energy, industry, education, and health and nutrition
sectors. In our lending work, we plan to continue emphasizing the
productive sectors and essential infrastructure to help address the
country's capacity constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A second
road sector project and a second coffee processing and marketing project
were approved in FY1984, and a sixth telecommunications project was
approved in July 1984. An agricultural research project has been
negotiated and will help to expand and strengthen existing research
capabilities and activities in agriculture. A sixth education project has
also been negotiated and will support the Government's efforts to improve



- 8 -
the quality, quantity and relevance of the country's education programs.
In addition, a third power project is being prepared to help develop
domestic energy resources to meet the needs of Ethiopia's growing economy,
and a peasant agricultural development project to help increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers. We are making concerted efforts
to arrange co-financing for proposed projects.
Compensation
23.       In recent years, the Government has made good progress in
resolving compensation claims for assets nationalized in 1975. Over half
of the claims by value have been settled. The Ethiopian Government has
negotiated a share-purchase agreement with IFC in respect of its shares in
the Metahara Sugar Company and in the Textile Mills of Dire Dawa. The
Government's Compensation Commission has settled with IFC's partner in
Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large claim, and with IFC's major
partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese company. A settlement with one of
IFC's smaller partners in the Textile Mills is in the process of being
accepted by the parties. The Commission has recently settled with a major
British claimant, and has made an offer to a major American claimant. The
Commission has also settled with five or more smaller German, Japanese and
American claimants, and has entered into negotiations with a number of
others. In addition, the Ethiopian Government and the Italian
Government have agreed on an arrangement to settle all Italian claims.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Higher-Level Manpower
24.       Compared to many Sub-Saharan African countries, Ethiopia had a
competent public service in pre-revolution times. There were also a large
number of expatriates in business and in the education system. Some
highly-qualified and experienced Ethiopians and most of the expatriates in
business left the country after the 1974 revolution, but many qualified
Ethiopians remained in the country. Vacated positions were filled by
promotion and training, which enabled the Government to manage the economy
with reasonable efficiency. Since the mid-1970s the higher education
system has grown fairly rapidly, and a number of special training programs
have been implemented. But a quality gap still remains, and the training
of new professional staff to meet the needs of the country's growing
economic activity does not seem to be adequate. The Government's success
in formulating and administering appropriate economic policies, in
preparing and implementing major investment programs, and in operating
efficiently an increasingly large number of public enterprises and
agencies, will depend crucially upon the availability of adequate numbers
of properly trained professional, technical and managerial staff. In this
respect, the proposed project will address the Government's critical need
in the short and medium-term for assistance to strengthen its capabilities
in macroeconomic management.



-9-
Planning
25.       The Government has been operating in recent years without a
medium-term plan and an investment program. This has not preseated major
difficulties so far since the Government's main objectives have been
largely to rehabilitate and utilize existing capacity, and these objectives
have been achieved. The need now is for a medium-term approach to
development, especially to accelerate the pace of economic growth through
higher levels of investment, to generate surpluses for further investment
and to raise progressively the living standards of the population. With a
record of generally satisfactory demand management, Ethiopia needs to
orient economic policy towards expanding the directly productive sectors,
particularly agriculture and industry, and towards increasing economic
efficiency. A key element of a Bank-supported, realistic, medium-term
strategy for the country to achieve these objectives should accordingly
include the formulation of a more realistic macroeconomic framework and a
viable, resource constrained public investment program to guide the
country's development process in the medium-term and to set priorities for
external concessionary assistance. The Government recognizes this, and has
been working or a draft ten year perspective plan during the past two yeare
to outline the country's long-term objectives and targets. The draft
plan's broadly stated objectives are to: improve the standards of living;
strengthen the country's forei2n exchange earning capacity; transform the
economy towards self-sustained and self-reliant development; create more
job opportunities; and bring about a more equitable distribution of
benefits. The Governmaent has also been preparing a Public Investment
Program (PIP) which was initially conceived as a three-year program but
more recently has been amended to a two-year program beginning in 1984/85.
Both the 10-year plan and the two-year PIP are now nearing completion, and
we expect to review the plans during an economic mission scheduled for
early 1985.
26.       A working paper prepared on the PIP in March 1983, and reviewed
by our last economic mission, provided useful background material and
insights concerning the broad parameters within which the PIP is being
formulated. Specifically, the working paper assessed current economic
problems, and described the country's objectives, strategies and
priorities. Agriculture was accorded the highest priority, followed by
industry, power and mining. In the light of the recent experience of
foreign exchange constraints limiting output growth, it emphasized the need
to step up investment and efforts to increase production and exports. For
example, it focussed on the need to increase coffee and non-coffee exports,
and to expand import substitution in food, consumer industries and energy
production. Priority was given to projects and programs which are
quick-yielding and which have a positive impact on the balance of
payments.
27.       The working paper on the PIP, however, indicated several
weaknesses in the area of macroeconomic planning. The main problems were
the lack of a well-formulated and consistent macroeconomic framework with
realistic targets, and the lack of detailed projections of GDP, balance of
payments and government finance. In this respect, the Government is in
critical need of technical assistance, training and equipment to help



- 10 -
correct these deficiencies and to generally strengthen its capabilities in
macroeconomic management and planning. Manpower constraints, particularly
a shortage of graduate level economists, and the lack of even modest
facilities for data processing and analysis, have severely hampered the
Government's ability to manage information, to analyze data, and generally
to assess alternative policy measures that could help the Government to
attain a higher and more sustained economic growth rate. The Government
uses technical assistance effectively, and has received some technical
assistance support from the UNDP and other multilateral agencies, and on a
bilateral basis from countries such as Sweden. This assistance, however,
primarily has not been directed at the specific areas to be addressed under
the proposed project. In addition, Italy has recently indicated its
intention to provide assistance for economic planning that will be
complementary to the support to be provided under the proposed project, and
preparatory work is currently underway. We propose to assist the
Government in the coordination of external assistance for macroeconomic
management.
28.       The major responsibility for designing and coordinating
Ethiopia's development plans rests with the Central Planning Supreme
Council (CPSC). The CPSC has a Secretariat made up of four commissions in
Addis Ababa (Productive Sectors, Economic and Social Services, Construction
and Physical Planning, and Macroeconomic Planning) and seven regional
commissions covering the country as a whole. In addition, there are a
number of semi-autonomous agencies under the CPSC, including the
Development Projects Study Agency (DPSA) and the Central Statistics
Office. The CPSC provides policy guidance to the technical ministries and
reviews all project proposals originating in the ministries. Guidelines
prepared by the CPSC form the basis for the planning operations of
implementing ministries. Th2 CPSC also plays a coordinating role among
technical ministries and the Ministry of Finance in the preparation of the
annual budget and investment program. The Government attaches great
importance to strengthening the CPSC's Macroeconomic Planning Department
and to the development of more sophisticated tools of economic analysis.
It also places emphasis on upgrading staff in the regions which are
expected to play a larger role in the future development of the country.
The proposed project will provide technical assistance in support of these
objectives (para. 42).
29.       The DPSA was established in 1980 as a semi-autonomous body
reporting to the CPSC. It plays an advisory role in project identification
and evaluation. With UNDP/UNIDO assistance, the DPSA has prepared
guidelines for project evaluation to be used by the sectoral ministries.
It provides consultancy services and organizes seminars for agencies in
project ev-luation, implementation and negotiations, and provides guidance
on appropriate technology development and joint venture activities.
30.       The DPSA has a small staff of sixteen, primarily junior level
economists. For the Agency to carry out adequately its role in project
preparation and analysis, it needs to not only upgrade the skills of the
existing staff, but also, in the shorter-term, to obtain access to
specialist services to assist in the technical evaluation and economic
analysis work. The proposed project will address these needs (rara 48).



- 11 -
31.       Any improvements in the planning machinery must address the
weaknesses not only in the planning agency itself, but also in the planning
mechanism as a whole.  The linkages to the Ministry of Finance are
particularly important, since the planning and budgeting processes are well
integrated in Ethiopia.  The Macroeconomic Planning Department of the CPSC
has worked in close coordination with the Ministry of Finance as vell as
the technical ministries in the preparation of the annual budgets and
investment plans and, more recently, in the drafting of the ten-year
perspective plan. The Ministry of Finance, however, lacks an efficient
accounting and disbursement system, and this represents a serious obstacle
to the e.fective financial and economic management of the Government. The
critical shortage of qualified accountants, a cumbersome accounting system,
and the lack of a workable management information system all impede the
flow of information required for informal policy decisions leading to the
formulation of a feasible and resource-constrained development plan. The
proposed project therefore addresses this need (para 50).
Accounting and Auditing
32.       Ethiopia's accounting and auditing performance has been
unsatisfactory in recent years due primarily to a critical shortage of
accountants at all levels, but also to the lack of recognized and accepted
standards, the inadequacy of accountancy training and the lack of focus in
Ethiopia for accounting development. The development of the accounting and
auditing profession is important for the Government of Ethiopia because of
the critical role the profession must play in measuring performance in the
development effort. Increasingly, accounting is providing the basis for
performance evaluation in a broad range of sectors. As the economy becomes
more sophisticated and sectors more interrelated, the development of
appropriate accounting standards, trained and experienced manpower, and
training institutions which are adapted to evolving needs, are vital.
Considerable technical assistance, advice and training will be needed over
a number of years to develop the accountancy field in Ethiopia, and the
proposed project will include a study to assess these needs for the economy
as a whole (para 52).
33.       In addition to a few generally low level short-term training
courses, accountancy training is provided in three academic
ir.stitutions-the Universities of Addis Ababa and Asmara and the Junior
College of Commerce (JCC) at Addis Ababa. These institutions offer courses
which include virtually no on-the-job training and are largely academic in
orientation. In addition, there are severe shortages of qualified
accounting teachers, textbooks and classroom materials. There are two
types of qualifications available locally in the accounting and auditing
field: (a) the university course of four years which leads to a bachelor of
business administration in accounting; and (b) the JCC course of two years
which produces bookkeepers with a knowledge of elementary accounting and
economics.
34.       The nationalizations in the 1970s and the establishment by the
Government of new enterprises increased considerably the work of the
Auditor General, who is responsible for the audit of all Government



- 12 -
bodies. There is legislation which regulates and coordinates public
financial operations and also provides for the accounts of these
enterprises to be audited at least annually by the Auditor General or by an
auditor appointed by him. The Auditor General's office is geared primarily
for the audit of Government budgetary departments such as ministries and
commissions. It therefore began to fulfill its new tasks by appointing
private accounting firms to audit the activities of other Government
bodies. However, this practice was considered inappropriate, and the Audit
Services Corporation (ASC) was established in October 1977 primarily to
carry out audits of public organizations.
35.       The Auditor General is responsible directly to the Read of
State. His office is responsible for the audit of approximately 2,000
units but only some 10 percent are actually audited in any one year. He
has a staff of about 220 of which 150 are classified as audit staff, the
balance being primarily administrative. Out of the professional staff,
none are internationally qualified. Fewer than 20 percent are university
graduates, and approximately 25 percent are from the JCC while the
remaining 55 percent are high school graduates. In addition to the head
office in Addis Ahbha, the Auditor General's office has regional offices in
the main urban centers.
36.       The ASC, as the Government audit agency, specializes in the audit
of the accounts and financial activities of the Government corporations.
The ASC is located in Addis Ababa but works throughout the country. There
are seven internationally qualified accountants/auditors in the ASC, five
of whom are Ethiopians, and most of the staff are either university
graduates or from the JCC.  The ASC usually attracts better graduates than
the Auditor General. ASC standards are high but there are limitations in
the middle and lower echelons. The ASC is currently seeking external
assistance to estabi.ah a small consultancy service unit, its purpose being
to assist Government enterprises in the installation of management and
financial accounting systems. There are also about seven private
accounting/auditing firms in the country, and the bulk of their work
consists of annual audits of public enterprises that the ASC is unable to
handle. The ASC now audits about 180 enterprises, representing an
estimated 60 percent of the public sector audit effort, while the private
firms audit about 250 enterprises. The enterprises audited by the private
firms, however, are generally the smaller and less complex enterprises,
which accounts for their smaller share of the total audit effort.
37.       The weakness of available accounting and auditing services in
Ethiopia is not only in the auditing of accounts but, equally important,
in their preparation, largely due to lack of appropriately trained
personnel, from bookkeepers to senior accountants and accounting managers.
There is a great scarcity of certified accountants in the country. In
addition, the accounting and control systems of most of the public
enterprises are in need of varying degrees of improvement. Many of them
were previously family held businesses, often without formal accounting
systems, and their accounting and control systems followed the personal
styles of their owner-managers. Those which had reasonable accounting
systems were often operated by expatriate staff who, along with the owners,
left the enterprises upon nationalization. They were replaced primarily



- 13 -
either by new financial staff who lacked adequate training and experience
or by existing junior staff who did not have adequate exposure and skills
for the supervisory roles with which they were then entrusted.
The Building Construction Sector
38.       Although construction accounts for about 50 percent of the
country's capital formation, the sector as a whole has not been studied on
a systematic basis apart from some issues focussed upon in our sector
work. The Government has requested Bank assistance for the building
construction sector much along the lines of the assistance provided under
the Second Road Sector Project (Credit 1404-ET of September 16, 1983) for
the transport construction sector.  In particular, the Government has
indicated that it wishes to trim the size of the Ethiopian Building
Construction Authority (EBCA), a large force account construction
orgaufzation, and to form autonomous public construction enterprises. The
domestic b'.ilding construction industry and market, however, contain many
diverse subsectors, and available information on the sector is fragmented
and incomplete. The proposed project will therefore provide technical
assistance first to study the present structure, organization and
capabilities of the building construction industry, and to assess the
future demand for and supply of building construction services, and
secondly to develop appropriate procedures and a plan of action for
improving the efficiency of the sector (para. 54).
PART IV-THE PROJECT
Background
39.       The technical assistance components included in the proposed
project were first identified by the World Bank Resident Mission in
Ethiopia. A mission to review the technical assistance requirements
visited Ethiopia in August 1982 and the economic mission of March 1983
provided further insights concerning weaknesses In the area of
macroeconomic planning. The project was appraised in July 1983 during a
joint Education and Technical Assistance mission. Negotiations for the
proposed credit were held in Washington from June 6 to 8, 1984. The
Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Abdul Menan Ahmed, Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Education, and included Ato Mitiku Jembere, Head, Credit and
Investment Department, Ministry of Finance, and Ato Seyoum Alemayehu, Head,
Foreign Economic Relations Department, Central Planning Supreme Council.
A Credit and Project Sum-ary is provided at the beginning of this report.
There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
Project Objectives and Description
40.       The proposed project will address the Government's critical need
in the short and medium-term for assistance to strengthen its
capabilities in macroeconomic management. Strengthened capacity in this
area will greatly enhance the Government's ability to formulate and
administer appropriate economic policies and investment programs. The
proposed project will also assist the Government to formulate programs to
strengthen the country's accounting and auditing capabilities and



- 14 -
performance, which is essential to the efficient operation of the
increasing number of enterprises in Ethiopia. In addition, the project
will help to formulate programs to improve the efficiency of the domestic
building construction sector. The proposed building construction study
will strengthen the Government's information on the capabilities and needs
of this economically important and pervasive sector. The Association's
proposed support for this project accords with our overall strategy to
assist the Government to improve the efficiency and productive capacity of
both the public and private sectors, and to improve the macroeconomic
framework for resource mobilization and allocation (para 22).
41.       The proposed project will provide consultant and specialist
services, fellowships and equipment to assist the Government to:
(i) develop a coherent and realistic macroeconomic framework for
medium- and long-term planning;
(ii) Introduce improved techniques of economic analysis;
(iii) strengthen project identification and evaluation capabilities;
{iv) improve management information systems;
gv) strengthen the ski]ls of CPSC staff through training;
(vi) develop an efficient accounting and disbursement system in the
Ministry of Finance;
(vii)  formulate progrmso to improve Ethiopia's accounting and auditing
capabilities and performance, and to improve the efficiency
of the domestic building construction sector.
Summaries of the specialist services and fellowships to be provided under
the project are given in Annexes IV and V to this report, respectively.
Terms of reference for selected specialist services which have already been
reviewed by the Association and found to be satisfactory are included in
Annex VI.
Detailed Features
(a) Central Planning Supreme Council
42.       The project alms at strengthening the planning capability of the
CPSC both in the short- and medium-term through the provision of advisory
services including a macroeconomist, an economic modelling adviser (both
for about 24 staff/months), a systems analyst/programmer (about 12
staff/months) and about 16 staff/months of short-term consultants to train
staff in making detailed projections and in carrying out data collection
and analysis. This assistance will be complemented by a phased training
program for CPSC staff with an ermphasis on the Macroeconomic Planning
Department.



- 15 -
43.       Approximately 180 staff/months of fellowships for study abroad
are planned including graduate degree programs in economics, computer
programming and systems analysis, as well as shorter (2 or 3 months)
seminars in development planning and econometric modelling. The CPSC has
already budgeted for five additional staff for the Macroeconomic Planning
Department. This expansion will permit the release of staff for training
without disrupting the work flow. The fellowship program will be phased
over four years, and it is planned that no more than two staff members will
be away for training at any one time.
44.       The CPSC lacks a computerized data system and this of necessity
limits the amount and type of analysis that can be done. In December 1983,
a study of the data management needs of the CPSC was carried out by
consultants financed by the United Nations Development Programme. The
study proposed the establishment of a computerized data base system using a
network of micro-computers which would not make excessive demands on
skilled manpower for Its operation and which would have the capacity for
expansion into an integrated information system for the CPSC as a whole.
45.       In order to proceed with the establishment of such a system,
the Government will need to establish a consistent framework for an
integrated computer system which takes into account the linkages, not only
within the CPSC itself, but with the Ministry of Finance and other major
data collecting and utilizing organizations. The proposed project includes
consultant services (3-4 staff/months) to review the linkages between
information systems currently in use in Ethiopia and to identify gaps and
specific problem areas which the CPSC will have to address in the design of
its information framework. The consultants will also recommnd future
staffing needs, capacity requirements for hardware acquisition, software
selection and application design. The proposed study will be completed by
September 30, 1985 for discussion with the Association (Section 3.08(c),
draft Development Credit Agreement). Services of a systems
analyst/computer programmer for up to 12 staff/months will also be provided
to assist the CPSC in the installation and adaptation of the computerized
data systems and in the training of CPSC staff.
46.       Purchase of the selected computers and related software will be
financed primarily through a UNDP grant while funds will be provided under
the proposed project to provide for additional workstations and software
and to establish a local area network.
47.       As part of its efforts to upgrade the staff responsible for
economic analysis and development planning, the Government is also in the
process of strengthening the seven regional planning commissions. The head
office of each commission is located in the region which it serves. Many
staff in the regional planning offices lack the grounding in economics and
statistics required for the more autonomous role which the Government
envisages for the regions in the future. The proposed project will finance
approximately 380 staff/months of fellowships for the regional offices
which will permit masters level degree programs for two staff members from
each region as well as about 45 staff/months of short-term seminars.



- 16 -
(b) Development Projects Study Agency
48.       The proposed project will finance a series of seminars in project
preparation and contract negotiations for DPSA staff in order to strengthen
their consultancy and training capabilities. In addition, the project will
finance up to 30 staff/months of short-term specialist services to assist
in project evaluation and to provide on-the-job training to DPSA staff.
One or two such specialists will be recruited during each year of the
project and will be assigned to a small group of counterpart staff who will
work as a team with the specialist to carry out the analysis of specific
projects.
49.       The DPSA is the central ageucy which maintains records on
consultants as well as an appropriate technology roster for use by all
ministries. It intends to make use of its existing microcomputer to
develop a computerized consultants' and technology roster. The proposed
project will finance about 6 staff/months of consultant services to assist
in the establishment of these rosters and to train DPSA staff in their use.
(c) Ministry of Finance
50.       The proposed project will provide advisory services (about 36
staff/months) to the General Accounting and Disbursement Department of the
Ministry of Finance and up to US$300,000 for computer hardware and software
in order to: (i) develop a fiscal budgeting system to ensure proper
allocation and control of government funds; (ii) develop an efficient
disbursement and accounting system and prepare a central accounting manual;
(iii) develop a workable management information system and supervise its
implementation; and (iv) train counterpart staff.
51.       Some aspects of the management information system are already
computerized and the General Accounting and Disbursement Department
includes one computer programmer. The Ninistry of Finance is planning to
increase the staff of the Department by recruiting a systems analyst and
additional programmers, and ultimately to create a separate Computing
Activities Department. The Burroughs computer currently in use has become
obsolete and the Ministry intends to replace it. The proposed assistance
is the first step of a long-term program to improve the management
information system and will focus primarily on the development of an
efficient accounting and disbursement system. Specifically, the
computerized system will encompass Central Government accounting, financial
statistics, financial analysis of public enterprises, internal and external
borrowing, and monitoring of the Government budget.
(d) Accounting and Auditing Study
52.       The proposed project will finance a study to review the present
accounting systems and procedures in Ethiopia and to prepare a coherent
action program for development of the accounting and auditing profession.
The study will be carried out in two phases.   Phase I (about 6
staff/months) will include a background review of the legislation and
standards for the profession, the processes of governmental and parastatal
accounting, the role and function of public auditing and control



- 17 -
procedures, and a survey of professional associations, and private
accounting and auditing firms. Phase I will also estimate the number and
level of accounting and auditing positions in government and private
organizations, review available training facilities and their adequacy, and
project the likely future deficit in trained personnel. Phase II (about 24
staff/months) will involve the preparation of a plan of action, including
recommendations for: (i) professional standards; (ii) executive
responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of public and private
sector accounting and auditing requirements; (Iii) standards for and
content of both pre-service and in-service training; and (iv) development
of training capacity.
53.       Because of the extensive range of institutions, activities and
levels of professional training which will be involved in a comprehensive
approach to development of the accounting and auditing profession, the
Government has designated the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance to coordinate activities relating to the study and to subsequent
development activities. The first phase of the study will be carried out
by December 31, 1985 for discussion with the Association (Section 3.08(a),
draft Development Credit Agreement). The second phase will be carried out
by June 30, 1987 (Section 3.08(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
(e) Construction Industry Study
54.       The proposed project will finance about 20 man/months of
specialist services to assist Ethiopia's Ministry of Construction to carry
out a study of the domestic building construction industry.  The study will
be carried out in two phases. The first phase will review the present
structure, organization, and capabilities of the industry in the public and
private sectors and assess the future demand for and supply of building
construction services. The second phase will develop appropriate
procedures and a plan of action for improving the efficiency of the
building construction sector as a whole, including the Ethiopian Building
Construction Authority (EBCA), and for establishing new public construction
enterprise(s). The proposed study will be carried out by December 31, 1986
and reviewed with the Association (Section 3.08(c), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
55.       The Foreign Economic Relations Department of the CPSC will have
overall responsibility for project implementation, but each government
agency involved in the project will be responsible for the selection and
recruitment of consultants allocated to them. Each agency will also assist
in the annual updating of the training program including proposals for
fellowships, which will require the approval of the CPSC. A Project
Coordinator within the Foreign Economic Relations Department will be
assigned to the project and will have qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The assignment of the Coordinator will be a condition for
effectiveness (Section 5.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Project Coordinator will have responsibility for coordinating the execution
of the project and for liaison with the Association and the government



- 18 -
agencies involved in the project. Within each agency, the Government will
assign one individual who will be responsible for coordination of that
agency's program with the Project Coordinator in the CPSC. It is expected
that such assignments will be made from among existing staff of the
agencies and that no additional staff will be required.
Cost Estimates and Financing
56.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$4.6
million, including taxes and duties of about US$0.1 million. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at about US$4.0 million, or about 89
percent of the total project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$4.5
million. The cost estimates have been derived from recent quotations and
appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies of 5 percent have been applied
to the base cost. Price contingencies for foreign costs have been
estimated, respectively, at 3.5, 8.0, and 9.0 percent annually for fiscal
years 1985, 1986, and 1987-90. Price contingencies for local costs have
been estimated, respectively, at 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 and 11.0 percent annually
for fiscal years 1985, 1986, 1987 and 1988-90. A detailed breakdown of
costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
57.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 3.9 million (US$4.0 million
equivalent) will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the
project. The Government will finance the local costs of US$0.5 million
equivalent, plus taxes and duties.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Consultant and specialist services totalling about USS2.6 million
equivalent will be recruited in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, and
will have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.03, draft Development
Credit Agreement). Fellowships totalling about US$1.3 million equivalent
will be awarded in accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Association (para. 60). Equipment costing more than US$10,000 equivalent
and totalling about US$470,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. The items will be aggregated to the extent practicable in
order to attract major suppliers. Equipment costing US$10,000 or less and
aggregating about US$100,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of
price quotations from at least three local suppliers. Prior to the
procurement of computer hardware and software, the specific requirements of
the CPSC will be determined on the basis of a ctudy (paras. 45 and 46), and
the requirements for the Ministry of Finance will be determined following a
review by specialists (para. 50).
59.       The Association will disburse against: (i) 60 percent of local
expenditures for services of consultants and specialists domiciled in
Ethiopia and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local
expenditures for services of other consultants and specialists; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for
equipment; and (III) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of



- 19 -
local expenditures for training and fellowships. Disbursements vill be
fully documented. The project is expected to be implemented over a period
of about five years. Consultant and specialist services are expected to be
completed by early 1988, and the commitments of fellowship awards are
expected to be completed by end-1988. Efforts, however, will be made to
accelerate this schedule. On the basis of the project implementation
schedule and general IDA disbursement experience in Ethiopia, disbursements
are expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
Reports, Accounts, and Audits
60.       By the end of each fiscal year, the Government will furnish to
the Association a work plan for the following fiscal year of such scope as
the Association may reasonably request (Section 3.06, draft Development
Credit Agreement). The work plans will provide information on the
recruitment and activities of each consultant and specialist, and on the
schedules for completion of reports and for the procurement and operation
of equipment financed under the project. The Government will also, by
January 31 of each year during execution of the project, prepare a detailed
program, satisfactory to the Association, for the training, including
fellowships, to be financed under the project during the following 18 month
period (Section 3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement). The preparation
of a training program, satisfactory to the Association, for the period
ending January 31, 1986 will be a condition for effectiveness (Section
5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Separate accounts will be maintained for all project components.
Project accounts for all institutions covered by the project will be
audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and
then submitted to the Association within six months of the close of each
fiscal year. All expenditures to be financed by the Association will be
made under clearly defined contractual arrangements.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The proposed project is expected to help the Government to
develop an appropriate macroeconomic framework and an adequate information
base for increasingly effective economic planning and management. This
will be accomplished in the short and medium-term through the assistance of
a small number of specialist advisers and short-term consultants. In the
longer-term the proposed training program is designed to upgrade Government
staff responsible for statistics and economic planning in order to ensure
that these functions can be performed adequately without recourse to
external assistance.
63.       The main risk associated with the planning assistance component
is the potential loss of trained staff due to non-return of fellows
undertaking studies outside Ethiopia. This risk is considered to be
minimal, however, since in recent years Ethiopia has had a high return rate
for its fellows compared to other countries in the region. Government
estimates of returnee rates for the past two year period were 85 percent



- 20 -
for the Government as a whole and above 90 percent for the Central Planning
Supreme Council and its associated agencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Recompndation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of the Association, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III to this report.
66.       Additional conditions for effectiveness of the proposed credit
will be:
(i) the assignment of a Project Coordinator whose qualifications
and experience are acceptable to the Association (Section 5.01(a), draft
Development Credit Agreement); and
(ii) the preparation of a detailed program for training,
including fellowships, for the period ending January 31, 1986 (Section
5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - REC0MMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 16, 1984



- 21 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
ETHIOPIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHrET
ETHIOPIA                              RErEReNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) l.
MOST                    (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT          LOW ICODE APRICA          MIDDLe iNCOHE
IS6Ii      ^JI,2!  ESTIHAT.'6         sr501  DOP SARA        RICA 5. OF SAHARA
a  (TWimSul  sq. m)
TO`rAL                               1221.9      IZI.9   1221.9
Al;ICIILTURAL                         574.Y       591.5    ;91.1
GNP P  CAPITA (UN)                        10.0        60.0    140.0               249.1                    1112.9
trOUT WnsIVfON PMR CAPITA
(RILOrAHS oF OIL EQUIVALENT)            2.0        23.0      24.0               62.8                     529.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATI(JH.MID-TYLAR  TNHUUSANS)  20093.0      2i54o.')  32933.0
URIAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)           h.4         9.1      14.1               19.2                      29.1
POPULATION PkWEETLIRIS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2COO (MILL)                             i7.t 
STATIONARIY POPULATION (HILL)                             210.5
PUPULATI'IU MELrTuM                                         1.
POJPUATION DENSITY
PER SU. no.                          16.4        20.8      26.2                2.1 S5.8
PER SQ. Pt. AGitl. LAND              35.0        41.0      53.9              119.2                     III.S
FPOPULATION ACE STROCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                            -3.9        4F.4.     45.1               45.6                      45.4
15-66 YrS                            53.5        SZ.6      52.3               51.5                      51.7
65 AND ABOVE                          2.6         Z.6       2.h                Z.9                       2.9
POPULATION CROWTH RATE 12)
TOThL                                 2.1         2.4       2.1                2.8                       2.8
URBAN                                 5.5         6.5       5.6                6.2                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUS)           S0.P        49.9      47.2               48.6                      47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           2R.3        25.7      18.1               17.7                      15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3         1.3       1.1                3.2                       3.2
FAHILIt PLANNING
ACCEPTORS  ANNAL (THOIIS)
CSERS (2 OF MARIED WIDEN)                                  ..                 ..
mmO AM tlKTIGN
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-tl)                          103.0       101.0      82.Q Ic           31.1                       Y1.b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 Or ReUIRFMEETS)         91.0         87.0      76.0                6.4                     I9h.2
PROTEINS (GAMS PER DAY)             72.0         69.0      59.0               49.9                      56.1
oF WHICH ASJDAL AND PULSE          29.0        28.0      22.0 Id           1.3                       11.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE            42.0        33.0      25.0               23.8                      1.1
LIPE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          36.5        41.0      66.8               48.4                      51.7
INFANT HDRT. BATE (PER TIIOUS)        172.0       151.0    122.0               117-5                     102.1
ACCESS TO SAtE WATER CXPOP)
TOTAL                                  *-         6.0       6.0 1.            21.8                      35.4
mURAN                                  ..          ..      32.07;             h1.5                      54.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..       2.0 7             1.2                       27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRTA DISPOSAL
(z OF PDOPLATION)
TOTAL                                  *-        14.0      14.0 it            32.0
CRBA                                   ,         b7.0      S6.0 6r h9.2
RURAL                                  *-         8.0       8.0 7r            24.8
PO"LATION PEA PHYSICIAN            100470.0    75740.0  58490.0 Iz1I         27477.8                   11948.3
POP. PER NRSIG PERSON               1490.0       780.0   5440.0 i7            3396.2                    2*4Z.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              3000.0      3050.0   3060.0{i            1089.0                     9865.9
LU"RB                               220.0       390.0    790.0               395.2                    326.7
RULAL                                 ..        15960.0  i0ol5.07           3094.0                    4012.1
AlBISSIONS PUB HOSPITAL BED              *-        10.6
AVQRACE SIZE oP HOUSEMHLD
TOTAL                                   *         4.5
UltAN                                 3.5         4.2
tURAL                                  ..         4.5
AVERACE NO. OP PRS0NS/IRooN
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
lawN                                  2.1.
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DELLINCS)
JURA                                58.2 lh
RURAL                                  ..          ..        .                   ..



- 22-                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
ETIOPIlA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SRECT
ETHIOPIA                               REVERENCE GROUPs (wEIzHTED AVZRAGES) La
M05T                     (MO5T RECENT ESTIDiATE) /b
RECENT           LOW INCOME AFRICA         MIDDLE INCOME
19601      o197       ESTIMA.ltb      SOUTH Or SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
ADJUSTED ENROLUXENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                        7.0        16.0      46.0 1/             69.2                       91.0
MALE                       11.0        23.0      60.0                78.8                      90.5
FEKALE                      3.0        10.0      33.0                57.6                       13.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       0.4         4.0      12.0                13.1                       17.4
MALE                        1.0         6.0      16.0                17.6                       23.7
FEMALE                     0.1          2.0       8.0                8.3                       14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)             20.3         4.5        ..                 7.2                        5.3
PU?IL-TEACNER RATIO
PR LMAT                               37.0        48.0      63.0                46.1                       38.6
SECOND4RT                             13.0        28.0      44.0                25.9                       24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (S)                   ..        1Z.8 /_  53.0 1/              44.3                       35.6
0uinTo
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.8         1.6       1.8 /a              3.8                       20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9         6.3       8.0                41.9                      100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..         0.3        1.0                2.0                       18.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                2.1         1.1       1.7                 5.4                       17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENOANCEICAPITA           ..          ..        ..                 1.4                        0.3
LM rom
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (THOUS)              6975.0     10957.0   13523.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      35.7        35.2      33.2                36.5                      33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 88.0        84.0      80.0                77.4                       57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     5.0         6.0       7.0                9.6                       17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7        43.1      41.1                41.0                       36.3
YALE                                  58.6        56.9      54.3                52.1                      47.6
FEMALE                                JI.3        29.7      27.6                30.2                      25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                1.2                        1.4
gINC    DIST3Il YION
PEICENT OF PRIVATE INCOKE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHeST 5S  OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
HIHESrT W0 oF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40S OP HOUSEHOLDS                ..
nVuM TAR   ONM
ESTMATED ABSOLUrE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URJAN                                  ..           ..     190.0               168.3                     525.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..      65.0 /a             90.8                     249.0
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..      77.0 /a            107.7                     477.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..      37.0 T              65.0                     Id6.0
ZSTLMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBUN                                   .           ..      60.0 Is             34.7
RURAL                                                       65.0 7-             65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NDT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a   Th group averagea  for each indlcator are popuLation-woihted aritheetic  noms. Coverage of countrti*  a3n0 the
indicatore depend, oan ai'labillty of data and So not uniform.
/b   Unlaes othervise noted, Dcta for 1960- refer to our y-r between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and date for -Mot Recent Est ate' between 1960 and 1982.
/c  lAO data differ soewhat from Ministry of Agriculture data; /d 1977; Le 1976;  If  1975, LL  1978;  Ih Addis
Ababa only;  /S Ages 10 years and oer; .a, 1979.
11 Estimates differ from those in the text of the report since the Latter reftect
the  findings  of  the  Latest  economic  mission.                                                     iI   "1964



- Z3-                                                                    ANNEX I
-_                                                              Page 3 of 5
_-         __  _   _e. _.              e _   at    - _     ra. _ _ _              - _      ,  _               __
_ -             _-     -   :! _n  _              .   -   -_ _     _ _        _.             .        _      _ _o       -        _      __    __ t   -   _          w            -*
_l       .S      a                                        .a  -              _taS -   _s at  a                                         -.n     n                  .
-          .. .         .---                 _   *_-s   -   _~.            __ _  _Sc                     -  *.   ..__.   -   ss                         ._
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           . - - OS   .33=. -  - 3 50  - - Sn -   - -- -            -  .
as  .0          a.n.                                P                                                             -   3.30t          5.t    .355   -           E    -        50----s - -
-  aso...-   ...         l s- -     t.               ..  Sw                               .O     alamo--  33.3           .l s.          -  OO.t.         t.
-~~~~~ -- -  5'--           -                  -+ r*                            --    .W .n                                      
t.. 3l-0 - *3s -    - -- ttinttl                                                     ---P - 1 *S.
30.f - *- --                                                                                      *ss- -   .'S- - 951- v-l 3..  -   )     50
-  - n..-   - -.n-  -                                              a. 
P:.  Ofs30-~~~-                         -                              O'3.3.. -                                    Oe --           -- -- t-                          -
~~.....e .. -     ..   -   -  a  -     -- = p.3.5   a..                                   3o0.          ...         a.s.        a.           .            .. ..O
e--   so  - -- .= --;s -                                     a-  -  -                                          -     ..-S3              sa            s05-   &33f             s
vl~~~~~~~- - - St - atl. -- 01 -  -:
9   a s    0    r5- fs~ a                    .     s -  SO.1t'.                                               -   3.wt   aOh  -                3-..  s 
-   o.  as..                 s.    -  -     - Ksa-as --    3-   .g Ka                                                          -  3.~    -...   -B
~~  ..  -  -,         ~       ~          sa--.                  s.... 3.ta..O lat ~~~z-   astot   v' 5 5 .
Ar.~~~~~~~e -   -.  -..                                                                        t..      -. ...S            -        -        .0       s    -s- -wg:
:~~~~~~~~~~~**   S 1a -                                                               :.-    -  Sn      -    -  .-B-l    
.w-.r- -           f .-- n,.-C.
j      -     to...   .t          -   - .*        - 'no   3*-                                            w: *
t_ _ t_t- .  _  __  _. ....................--...-...........................- -._: *.  _    _  C._. __r._
__ _    __..     -_    _ - __     alasa.                                                      - a  __.     __:_  -l_ _                  sa~S                      ..     a
_0        _    __t  -. *00s   aO ttS   sS _-                                                          *t3      *          _ 1.    f SE    _a    __ _5
...hoS   .S~sa                                                                                                    - _o  _ _  ._I  __  _*. -_               -  .... __aw _        _ __ _to~s  w
_~~~~                Ca3.         h5 _ss.t                        - _n   -: s    t                      as   _  -    *.l __   _       .0 .__          _
.-.   _   rs. -_               _         0     _;_~         _03  1.                 _          _           .  *rh .    asS 535.   _1                _~         _      
_ -   .=w        S ___             to f_   -_ -_ -t                     -                                     
-  -    Lu,..        .o. -   S-v~~~~~_ tntflt&__ .3*.   ao.-  _                      3 5*: tr            *   _0.   -   __ _5s              .       t      _  __S   _
1              _     a.   t3S   __.0    -as, 3.5                _                         -I-.  3-__;as0S   La55 5.5 w                                  r      .3
_ _   _-   as.            _r .53._   _                    3.- _-.. _                                 Sa __  _e0   3-1 &a __                          5.
. :.s  m. 3..  _:. .3.                S. ia  t._                  't. 6_
- -    .a                  S.-   --_ __   _n _:__          -fw -@   _. --                    s.._  r*                                           
_oo  *. t. s.?5                                                                                                   _ 0.  0,                     =     _ .....3   a.0S         s_ 33-..~    3. Pl       .a.3   3
_       -          .        -   . 3    ....             w-t    ~ ,3  o..310a                                a -0 a                n0       .n         
-.   .55   _   5.  -                 .   *..3 - -                         -  on-                             -     s:.  __   _   _    _    -_ _ . _*   -_ _.
S..~~~~~~~~~ -              e - ~ ~'S     5..                s~ -                          * .ls  - 5013 
_-   _               l.s.   3.        -     S._ g-          -. .o.   00                           -53s.i.                    .         r    t'-*s t*-30S
.83-             tao. ...           S. '_5  as4 C_                    .. _.                         3h       .5.t         3     S _w   3               0 _05 _         *_ *   ~ _ __  1
_~n          .     3   __SS.  ...5    wb. :   as..   Nal                      _                       3t       .              _ t   _0 _a            _ ti   .Sa
_d         3-e                                                                                       z< t-..       _. - .35             ___0.   _  .*.             _   __S ___3.0  __
_    _ _-  a        6 sn-K-a    _3  - t   __n..  -wl -_0 as-:0.0                                                  - -                ..0s-                      - -
_~~~S_.' aS                        *.-,   _  s-s-        -  a-as                 _            SS     _55  _, _              ...S         -8| ta-t-          .l5 
I     -;   *50t _. _4. **Of..033                                                                                                    . 5             .      _.  S *-      ___10   
_ -o      __'                -      _ _.    __   s. *                 -_v as                              o .o    _1*  0.                  _       a   S  _.       .-
_      n 1        = Se  50) _         _3- _al _- _                                                                         S _*  1  _30_       . -__      _ _t
___-  a... aS. _a   3         -   _ _   1 aSs           _          __ Ott-                         -_    _'       5                   3S       
atas.  -. _n -_o                30 _     . _-_                                                               5513-              -                 asI __0 _
*. ti   _S  _   _            _-t               .. .         n          .-                              s       _. _s   _.  _t .               0     05.       5 
*_nSS.  's              *. r   -          ._r               ..X z   .5                           ,,. _s .S_.                      _ SUn            _.*_        . .   -             -
_s_    _    _  ___  *_  e_   _   t_                           *__S't_. **_3_001._                            _505         .  _-3 .  _ _05
t.  lt    -        S    - aS              -SaSs.                         .      3- . S    _         .n    R -     _ Sr     _ 'S .. ,_
@ _ >_t '-_PX_1_: - s_ _ _ ..   _                                           t_ -n 55   30.h             _     0     __ eSiS   otf   -_
_    ___s            _               _      _ S  6 , 50.   s 515   _*   -                       ________             _ _ _
Lw-  -_ t.SSs                _...  _lStf   _ _   _  -.                  _;.                       53   0     3S  l.      _ 1  _           -      _5--    *   _              n.
P.03-o  _          t              o.           ttSt       - .3*50           3*4.                     305          .a        4 .5.5  l.n   _...  33-.U   as.
_ s..                                                                                            .0   r_55.  _.   _.    _ -s 3.*    5:   _e___. as 'a     + - Is _a _     _ -
__     l _ ,            Ca _13 a         S 1.3.  SN                    3f0                       0.         t0      .Se _.                    4.S    .0 sI_ _*_  _c..
as      sesa t                   S    ati   .3           .._ _an   _s                   *            fl  35. s  tOol 3.                        _.  _5 3 . atS  _:5S   _ .__ _
.03-wS.       a         o    I,   no e  pT_    _v :sS   :__.                            :            .tVts..t  _:a         5.0    0.5 _n  3.          .      .a    5 
_3  5.@ __ _., *_              _____      _..................o. ..    ............- ..t..-*. ..n......    s .S                 _n   ,_t_._,.
_            sf. I__a    as _o. *  _ _            53 5   s  le                         _    -_ _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _
-          l__     3- .0100                .0 _      ..o.         lOoS                           '..35 ..   as   *.                                                 T_oS   a...  S  5.   Sa
a-   _5  .t0 S_    *_             __0 .50  _.54        aS_  _. Is__ _. a0                                                        - 3..o..  ...   .s..t_                             _
_l.                                                   [                                                     a ___fSo_
'a.  '-5   -.  aSo _r _    _   *- _ ..  s... __              -_ ..*.   3.50                                 a -5-.55. .31                                     .       3~
__________  ___________S_   __  _s *_  _o..   -    osos' _.-_   _.5                                                                                                 3.
t0.      .S   0    .  's   . ,            soa3S   S   03-    .



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Economc Indleators
Annual Rate of Crowth of CDP
Gross National Product In FY 1983 I/                                at Constant Factor Cost (C)
(Flscal Years)
USS MIln     :                       1977-81    1981    1982    1983
GDP at Market Prlces            4731.3     100.0                        3.2       3.0      1.5     4.2
Investment                       497.3      10.5
Gross Domestic Savings            87.4       1.8
Resource  alance                -409.9       8.7
Export of Coods and SFS          551.7      11.7
Import of Goods and %FS          96L.5      20.3
otput in F11983 1/
Value Added
USS ln
Agriculture         2068.1        48_4
Industry             668.7        15.7
Services            1535.2        35.9
422FE0      100.0
Government Finance                    Central Government
(Br .Mn)          2 of CDP
FT L983  /I  FY 1983     FY1980-82
Current Recepits                    1980.6        20.2          19.3
Current Expendtures                 2186.7        22.3          18.5
Current Surplus                     -206.1        -2.1          0.8
Capitat Expenratures                1127.2        11.5          5.3
. Credat and Prices
(Fiscal yargy )1979                                        1980       1981      1982      1983 1I
(MlLUoa Br. outstanding end of Period)
Money and quas-money                            2063.6    2332.1    2377.6    2643.7    3040.4
Dank Credit to Central Gornnt                    862.3     968.1    1107.9    1180.9    1979.4
lak Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                        1222.7    16"4.2    1721.8    1944.2    1741.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
money as 2 of CDP                                 25.8      27.4       26.9      28.8      31.0
Annma perecnta.p changes In:
Ceneral Price Iudez                              12.9      12.5        1.9       7.3       3.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     12.5      12.3       14.4       6.6      67.6
Sak Credit to Prlvate Sector                     34.1      34.5        4.7      12.9     -10.4
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the  evrage  exchange rate during the period
covered.
All Fiscal Tears are from July 8 to July 7.
1/    Provisional Data for 1983.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Balance ofMP!a
(FiScal Years)                            1981     1982      1983 I/       Merchandise Exports
(IllIon USS)                   (Fiscal Year Average 1981-83)
USS Min.       I
Exports of Goods, SFS                     554.6    519.9    551.7          Coffee              241.4       61.0
Imports of Goods, hFS                     793.4    881.3    961.5          Pulses               13.3        3.4
Resource Gap (deficit - -)               -238.6  -361.4  -409.8            Ollseeds             10.2        2.6
Hides 6 Skips       43.1        10.9
Investmnt Income (net)                     -6.5    -2.3    -2.1            Oslseed cake          3.4         9
Private Transfers (net)                    24.7     45.3      84.9         Other                84.5       21.3
BaDance on Current Acct.                 -22C.4  -318.4  -327.0            Total               395.9      100.0
Offlical Tanafers (net)                    59.9     67.6    115.5          External Debt. June 30.1983  ii
Prlvate MILT Capital (net)                  0.0      0.0       0.0                                   USS IUn
Public KLT Borrmwing (net)                110.4   245.4    181.6
Disbursements                          (132_S) (278.0)  (225.8)
Amortization                            (22. 1)  (32.6)   (44.3)         Total outstanding &
Short-term Capital                         -6.0      18.9    -9.5            Disbursed              , 1115.0
Chauge in reserves                                                         Debt Service Rstio for 111983 I/
C- - increase)                            59.7   -57.7       71.8                                     C
Mi-nor Ites
(fncl. errors)                            -3.6     44.2   -32.4           Total Outstanding a       11.0
Met Forelgn Assets                                                           Disbursed
(end year)                               118.6    178.6    107.3
Petrolem  Imports                        138.7    159.1
Petroleum Product                                                         IBRD/IDA lending (March 31. 1984)
Imports                                 27.0     14.0
CUSS MDn)
IBRD    lIDA
Rate of Enge Since 197 3
USSl,o -llr. 2.07                                                        Outstanding &
Pr.1.0O  - US$0.48                                                        Disbursed           42.5    368.9
Undisbursed          -      203.6
P;tstanding lncl.
____________________                                  -Undisbursed         42.5    572.5
- not applicable
- not available
1/ Provisional
Aprll 1984



- 26-                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMERT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount
Loan or                                                               (US$ Million)
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number         Year      Borrower      Purpose                     Bank      IDA        burmed
Twelve loans and twenty credits fully disbursed.                   108.6    233.2
Cr. 603-ET      1976      Ethiopia     Rangelands Dev.                       27.0           4.7
Cr. 708-ET      1977      Ethiopia     Road Sector                           32.0           3.5
Cr. 707-ET      1977      Ethiopia 1/  Revised Anibara                       25.0           5.9
Cr. 789-ET      1978      Ethiopia     Grain Storage & Mkg.                  24.0           8.1
Cr.1088-ET      1981      Ethiopia     Agricul. Minimum Pkg. II              39.2 2/       11.7
Cr.1141-ET      1981      Ethiopia     Education V                           35.0 Z       12.8
Cr.1275-ET      1982      Ethiopia     Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank            30.0 Z2       27.1
Cr.1366-ET      1983      Ethiopia     Urban Development                     20.0 Z/       19.2
Cr.1386-ET      1983      Ethiopia     Petroleum Exploration                  7.0 2'        6.5
Cr.1404-ET      1983      Ethiopia      Second Road Sector                   70.0 7J       69.1
Cr.1429-ET      1984      Ethiopia     Coffee Processing & Marketing         35.0 -i       35.0
Total                                               108.6   577.4        203.63
of which has been repaid                           66.1     4.9
Total  ow outstanding                                42.50  572.5
Amount sold                         6.0
of which has been repaid          6.0                -         -
Total 3ov held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                    42.50  572.50
Total Undisbursed                                      -       -         203.6
11 USS1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has
been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/ Credits 1088-ET, 1141-ET, 1275-ET, 1366-ET, 1386-ET, and 1404-ET and 1429-ET are denominated
in SDRs (SDR 31.4 million, 28.2 aIllion, 27.0 million, 18.0 million, 6.5 million, 64.9
million, and 33.2 million, respectively).
3/ Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
USS Million
Fiscal                                          Type of               Amount
Year       Obligor                              Business      Loan    Equity       Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dava I         Textiles      1.5      1.0          2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.          Paper           -      1.9          1.9
1968       HYA Metahara, S.C.                   Sugar         5.5      3.5          9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dava II        Textiles      0.4      0.2          0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III       Textiles      1.5      0.2          1.7
Total Gross Commitments                           8.9       6.8         15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                    8.9      6.0         14.9
Total Commltments now held by IFC                   -       0.8         0.8
Total Undisbursed                                            -           -



- 28 -
ANNEX III
ETHIOPIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:    About 18 months.
(b) Preparation by:                     The Government of Ethiopia with
IDA assistance.
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA:      Mid-1982.
(d) First IDA mission:                  August 1982.
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:       July 1983.
(f)  Negotiations:                      June 6 to 8, 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    January 15, 1985.
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
III.Special Conditions:
{i) Conditions for Effectiveness:
(a) The Government will assign a Project Coordinator acceptable
to the Association (para. 55); and
(b) The Government will prepare a detailed program for training,
satisfactory to the Association, for the period ending
January 31, 1986 (para. 60).
(ii) Other Conditions:
(a) The Government will prepare work plans of such scope as the
Association may reasonably request (para. 60);
(b)  The Government will prepare detailed programs for traiDing,
including fellovships, that are satisfactory to the
Association (para. 60); and
(c) The Government will carry out studies of accounting and
auditing, the building construction industry, and information
resource facilities, by specified dates (paras. 52, 54 and
45).



- 29 -
Ahex IV
Page 1 of 3
EMiMF   - 7ECA     A             W
S&uiry of Spe5alist Sevicas
amnry of Specialist Services
zation      litle               MuVn/tbzt     Luuir Job Dmscriptiom
Ceaml P3laimg         EF rc ModeUing          24       Assist In development of an Improved
Supeme Ccscil          Speciahst                       I      _  c   el. UddI   g the domestic
prvduct andi etures, belame of
Payints,   Pic fino  and the
mty ~tse.or
Mt                      24      I1prov ietimtes of
p ~~~alyz  c            n
Systmu Analyst          12      1eai4z and! 1IJmplme  data buse system
PWr                             and train users.
Emnfsttfraiier           4      Impllt pnoedures for prepatoAM
of GP projwctic  and tran CPSG
staff.
Ecod/ttzrainr            4      Iiplemaent prodawes for preparation
of balne of paynfts projectixu and
tain CPSC staff.
4      Tmrin CPSC staif iu conAll  irxt-
am tamDe .
EAzasLt                  4      To be delnd



- 30 -
hk IV
Page 2 of 3
Title               Na/Nmths  Su,wr Job Description
Consultan Services       4      Assist the CMsc develp a general
to develop eeural                fran.ork for its infonutim resouc
strategy aa                      facilities, based oa present and
for inforMEtim                  articipated data rest, linkaes with
aemnt                        other ministries and primnry data
Pro,ig          mtlos.
I~veloiment           C4uputer Progmr          2       Creatimi of a ccupterized
ProjectsStudy                                           castant's roster.
I uter Programer         2       aeatim of tedmology roster.
I   FProgarer/           2       1dentlfitim  of additional uses of
Systems Aalyst                  existing ca2pqer[zed data system-
F!xxCsts                30       s t-te   c uomAtat  tD assist lu
project preparation and evaluaticn
and truin MMS in evlustioa
)Uzldstry Of          Conultn Services        36       MmmxeI iuproved procedures In
Finance               to develop                       aLloctim and control of goverment
*      pterized acwmtiz         fuods and in tDe disbrst axd
a bxl eting system               acunting syStem. Develop iorabe
and integrated           imforatimn
sytem for MLnEstry of Fimixe.
Consultan Services      30      Assess  resent sidm  ofaat of   uting
for accountIng and               and aditing profession in Etiopia
aiting study                     and recommad coordinated program of
action for its futu  development.



- 31 -
Agmex I
Page 3 of 3
Ization          TLtle               anhb,ths  Suwary Job Description
Nlzdstry of           Cwautan Services        18      Review the strucure, organization ain
CG3tai(X              for revise of domstic           capabiLties of the dstic hdildirg
blldig cutru                   axstructtim iniswtry, and develop
izlstry                        procedures and a plan of actimn to Improve
the efficiency of institutions and
enterprises in the hdldAing nstnrction
sector.
YAI_
WE9
Juy 1981.



- 32 -
Am= V
Pagp 1 of 1
EIHWFL  - T030     ASSISTANZ PRW
NZmer       MWn
intion             Field of Sttly       feflzm      ewch          Type amd pwrpo  of training
C1'S            Exmacs                   6          24          Ilbstera level axwes In de'velopozt
ec-cd  fw staff In Iscroec1                I PaI
!mparin (aSC), In the fields of
ecQz.trics, regtmu develAopmt,
FdnoteIAw  tac  and ewrU plamd
c4zter Progra.1ng       2         12            ore-yea pro  in ca:upzedzed daLta
System Aralysis                                -mmmadpom%(smdp.
KAMM.tric VDIbdell      9        3 - 5          9izt-term tralring for (C'S staff In ~ue
~~]opsst Flaming  ~~~of copterizad ecomc acdela Intro&wed
Dca Prcsigdring project period, and uemizars In
0-~                          ~  -E
F1ddaE~~~~~~~~~~qpo   S nwf .
Regtoml          Boo.cs                 14          24           Mstern level. acrm In
F3&wing                                                          ecoma'coIplannirdg for staff In legi  lng
offices          I    -uE1cii  P1azxdz  11          4            offlo  and shmrt-te= trainin  in regml~
du Blquer, Izukatry plsr,wte
DM               cmSA   Prznt            1         12            Ore-yewr pmgr   in data proce!sig and
oqmtrprogrming
Project Prepaticn       3          3             v e      ctrainiLg  in projeCt preprti
and Appraisal           3          3           and appraisl. Locl semirgra in cmtct
Ccoritrct negotiaticm   5          1            e-dtm.
EAPTt
July L184



- 33 -
Annex VI
Page 1 of 8
ETHIOPIA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Position:  Economic Modelling Specialist
Location:  Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC), Addis Ababa
Duration:  About 24 months
Duties:    The Economic Modelling Specialist will act as adviser to the
Head of the Macroeconomic Planning Department. The adviser's
duties and responsibilities will include:
(a) Examine the existing macroeconomic planning methodology and
improve such methodology in terms of a suitable macro-
economic model linking the domestic product and expendi-
ture, balance of payments, public finance and the monetary
sector;
(b) Develop methodology for short, medium and long term fore-
casting of balance of payments fiscal and monetary devel-
opment, energy requirements anA price trends;
Cc) Develop and improve relevant elasticities, indices and
other macroeconomic parameters that would be useful for
economic analysis and planning;
(d) Develop procedures for ensuring intersectoral consistency;
(e) Advise on improving methodology for forecasting exogenous
elements of the macroeconomic model and on using the model
to develop alternative macroeconomic scenarios for Govern-
ment plans;
(f) Assist in the computerization of macroeconomic planning
work;
(g) Assist in assessing the implications of alternative macro-
economic scenarios, particularly in regard to domestic
resource mobilization, external finance and debt implica-
tions;
(h) Formulate proposals for policy oriented research and
participate in any research work undertaken in the
department;
(i) Assist in preparing terms of reference for the short-term
consultants required for training of CPSC staff in prepara-
tion of GDP and balance of payment projections and in use
of Revised Minimum Standard Model;



- 34 -
Annex VI
Page 2 of 8
(j) Prepare, within one month after arrival, a detailed work
pLan based on the terms of refereuce covering the period of
assignment;
(k) Provide on-the-job training for local staff;
(1) Prepare annual and biannual progress reports.



- 35 -
Annex VI
Page 3 of 8
ETHIOPIA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Position:  Nacroeconomist
Location:  Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC), Macroeconomic
Department, Addis Ababa
Duration:  About 24 months
Duties:    (a) Examine the present macroecon3mic data base for planning and
improve estimates, where required, of all relevant macro-
economic aggregates aecessary for the development of a suit-
able macro-frame;
(b) Analyze recent trends in macroeconomic aggregates and pre-
pare relevant indices of change as background for macro-
economic planning work;
(c) Prepare reports on recent economic developments in order to
provide the necessary background for the preparation of a
suitable macro-frame;
(d) Assist in compiling a suitable input-output table for the
Ethiopian economy;
%e) Assist in computerizing input-output tables;
(f) Prepare proposals for applied research in macro-economics to
be carried out by CPSC;
(g) Maintain close cooperation with relevant ministries and
agencies;
(h) Prepare, within one month after arrival, a detailed work
plan based on the terms of reference covering the period of
assignment;
(i) Provide on-the-job training for CPSC staff.



- 36 -
Annex VI
ra8e - of 8
ETHIOPIA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Position:  Systems Analyst/Programmer
Location: Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC), Addis Ababa
Duration:   About 12 months
Duties:    (a)  Implement data base systems; including capital and produc-
tion monitoring systems, sector data base systems and train
users;
(b) In collaboration with Economic Modelling Specialist, the
project consultants, and with CPSC staff, design appropri-
ate systems for computerization of the information needed
for planning and economic analysis;
(c) assist in implementation of the systems and train users;
(d) recommend appropriate training programs for CPSC staff.
Conduct seminars on the application of specific programs
and provide on the job training to counterpart staff;
(e) prepare, within one month after arrival, a detailed work
plan based on the terms of reference covering the period of
assignment.



Annex VI
Page 5 of 8
ETHIOPIA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Services:       Consultants to prepare a detailed framework for the
development of information resource facilities within CPSC.
Location:       Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC), Addis Ababa
Man/Months:     About four m-n/months, beginning about October 1984
Background:     The Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) was established
in October 1978 and is responsible for plan preparation and
the monitoring of its implementation. Currently only the
Central Statistics Office, which is directly responsible to
the CPSC, has computer capability. All processing and
analysis of data currently done in CPSC is handled
manually. Computer capability is required if CPSC is to
build up the information required to permit more
disaggregated forms of macroeconomic plzaning and
forecasting and the progressive introduction of more
sophisticated planning techniques and procedures.
In December 1983, a study of the computer needs of CPSC was
carried out by consultants financed by the United Nations
Development Programme. The study's objectives included a
review of the data management system now being used by CPSC
and proposals for the establishment of a computerized data
base system to meet its current and future needs. This
study recommended a phased implementation program which
would not make excessive demands on skilled manpower for
its operation and which would have the capacity for
expansion into an integrated information system for CPSC as
a whole.
Activities:     In order to effectively utilize the results of this study,
the Government will need to establish a consistent
framework for an integrated computer system which takes
into account the linkages, not only within CPSC itself, but
with the Ministry of Finance and other major data
collecting and utilizing institutions. Using the
information available from the December 1983 study, the
consultants will:
(a) Review the linkages between information systems
currently in use in Ethiopia and identify gaps and
specific problem areas which CPSC will have to address
in the design of its informati i framework;



- 38 -
Annex VI
Page 6 of 8
(b) Recommeud a multi-year facilities plan that responds
to users' needs, availability of skills and expertise
required to implement the system, compatibility with
othet systems, and adaptability to meet future needs;
(C) Assist the CPSC in establishing a process of
periodically updating the facilities plan and in
coordinating computer acquisition;
(d) Recommend future staffing needs, capacity requirements
for hardware acquisition, software selection, and
application design;
(e) Prepare, within one month after arrival, a detailed
work plan based on the terms of reference covering the
period of assignment.



- 39 -
Annex VI
Page 7 of 8
ETHIOPIA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE Pn-E T
Terms of Reference
Services:    Consultants to develop an efficient computerized accounting
and budgating system
Location:    Ministry of Finance, Addis Ababa
Man/Months:  About 36 man/months, beginning about October 1984
Activities:  (a) Disbursement and Accounting
1. Review existing disbursement procedures used by the
Ministry of Finance, with particular attention to
authorization procedures and documents required for
effecting disbursements;
2. Recommend improvements in disbursement, authorization
and expenditure reporting procedures;
3. Reviev data input procedures at computer center and
recommend means of eliminating existing bottlenecks;
4. Assist Ministry in implementing the improved
procedures;
5. Prepare a Central Accounting Manual for the Ministry
staff incorporating the central accounting and data
processing procedures. A second manual covering
disbursement procedures will also be prepared;
6. Provide on-the-job training on accounting and
disbursement procedures.
(b) Data Processing
1. Review present use of computer for central government
budgeting and accounting, customs statistics and
government debt accounting, and recommend means to
resolve existing operational problems;
2. Identify additional feasible applications for EDP; and
guide and supervise program-ing activities, test
programs and supervise implementation;
3. Prepare a workable management information system,
covering the major aspects of the Ministry's work
program and culminating in an Integrated Xanagement
Information System;
4. Provide on-the-job training on data processing
procedures.



- 40 -
Annex VI
geP a of 8
(c) Budgeting
1. Examine existing system of budgeting and recommend
improvements needed in the budget classification
system in order to assist economic analysis work;
2. Prepare a manual of budgetary procedures to serve both
the staff of the Ministry of Finance and the staff of
other budgetary departments;
3. Provide on-the-job training in budgetary procedures.
(d) Work Plan
1. -repare, within one month after arrival, a detailed
work plan based on the terms of reference covering the
period of assignment.



or  -                                     ETHIOPIA
Y-  A
ir                                                           _ I
I         r   ._7'                                          :      ~*             -
X c;.-  ( _<_NY   






