Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18471-MK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO DEM 52.8 MILLION
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FORA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
January 12, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Turkey and FYR Macedonia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Denar
1 Denar = US$0.019
1 US$ = 52.98 Denars
1 US$ = 1.6752 Deutsche Mark
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT         Average Annual Daily Traffic
EIB        European Investment Bank
EU        European Union
HDM         Highway Design Model
MR         Macedonian Railways
FNRR         Fund for National and Regional Roads
PMS        Pavement Management System
PSO        Public Setvice Obligations
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
RUC         Road User Charges
TEN        Trans-European Network
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ajay Chhilbber
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Sector Leader: Eva Molnar
Program Team Leader: Mirtha Pokomy



FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .............................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project....................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy............................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices...........7
C. Project Description  Summary.........7
1. Project components ...........................................................7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...............................................8
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................               8
D. Project Rationale .................................................................. 10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..................................................... 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............... 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...........................................................  11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ........................................................... 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................                12
E. Summary Project Analyses .................................................................                                        12
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                   12
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                  12
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                  13
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                              13
5. Social ...........................................................                                                     13
6. Environmental assessment ...........................................................                                   13
7. Participatory approach ...........................................................                                     14
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                        14
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                             14
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                             15
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................................................                             15



iv
G. Main Loan Conditions ............................................. 16
1. Effectiveness conditions ............................................               16
2. Condition for Disbursement of Railway Component ............................................  16
3. Other conditions ............................................                       16
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................................                   17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ............................................                  17
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .18
Annex L.A  Railway Restructuring Action Plan .21
Annex 1.B      Performance Targets for the Macedonian Railways .23
Annex 2.  Project Description .24
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .27
Annex 4.       Economic and Distributive Analysis of the Tetovo -Grupcin Road Component .      28
Annex 5.  Financial Summary .37
Financial Summary for Macedonian Railways .38
Fund for National and Regional Road Investment P'rogram and Financial Plan.        39
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .40
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .42
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements .43
Table B 1.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .44
Table B2.   Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements .45
Table B3. Procurement Plan .46
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .47
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule .48
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File .49
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits .50
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .51
Map No. IBRD 29512



FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Turkey and FYR Macedonia Country Unit
Date: January 12, 1999                                   Program Team Leader Mirtha Pokomy
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber                          Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 50589        Sector: Transportation          Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan             Program of Targeted Intervention:  [    Yes  [X ] No
Project Financing Data                [X]  Loan       [ ]    Credit   [3    Guarantee    [       Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (DEM m): 52.8
Proposed terms:                           []   Multicurrency        [x]  Single currency, DEM
Grace period (years):     5               [    Standard Variable    [   Fixed             [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:        20
Conmmitment fee:          0.75%
Service charge:           1 %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                         Local               Foreign            Total
Government                                                        9.7                    0             9.7
IBRD                                                                0                 32.0            32.0
Total                                                             9.7                 32.0            41.7
Borrower: Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agencies: Fund for National and Regional Roads, and Macedonian Railways
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUSSm):        1999        2000        2001      2002
Annual                                         7.0          10.0        10.0       5.0
Cumulative                                     7.0          17.0        27.0      32.0
For Guarantees:                                     [    Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terns of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                 []    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated fnancing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project imnplementation period:  Expected effectiveness date:05/09/99  Expected closing date: 6/30/2002



-2-
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators i(see Annex 1):
The Project development objective is to improve the efficiency of the road and railway systems.
Monitoring indicators for evaluating project performance are presented in Annex 1. They mainly refer
to:
(i)    Lower cost of transport on the Tetovo-Grupcin road section:
* Reduced "road user cost/vehicle kin" as measured by the Highway Design Model
(HDM), and increased time savings measured by "average speed".
(ii)   Enhanced efficiency and increased in-house capability of the Fund for National and Regional
Roads (FNRR) to plan and program investments, monitor pricing of road services, and rationalize
maintenance expenditures.
(iii)  Increased efficiency and lower cost of railway operations:
* Reduced costs and increased labor productivity of the Macedonian Railways (MR).
* Adoption of a system for Public Service Obligations (PSO).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18162-MK    Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/04/98
Tlhe National Development Strategy for FYR Macedonia commissioned by the Government and
supported by the CAS reaffirms the country's commitment to completing the transition to a market
economy and acceding to the European Union (EU) early in the next century. The Bank Group's
assistance strategy for FY, 99-01 emphasizes the three priority areas outlined in the national strategy: (i)
Promoting private sector growth and job creation. Reforms will focus on improving post-privatization
corporate governance, enhancing the business environment, strengthening judicial and regulatory
systems, attracting foreign investment, and increasing financial sector discipline and competitiveness; (ii)
Enhancing the efficiency of the state. Priority will be accorded to rationalizing public expenditures,
restructuring state institutions, reforming civil service policies,, and redefining the scope of the state
intervention in the economy. The capacity of the state to deliver core services effectively will be
strengthened, while reducing the state's dominant role in areas such as infrastructure provision; and (iii)
Alleviating poverty and developing human capital. The country will build on first generation programs
aimed at strengthening front line social services: basic health, primary education, social assistance, and
labor services. The proposed project is in line with the objectives of (ii) above, as it will (a) facilitate the
restructuring of the MR, identified as one of the more troubled public enterprises, along the lines of EU
directives; (b) bring about a reduction of transport costs in the East-West trade corridor, thereby
improving the international competitiveness of Macedonian products; and (c) rationalize road
expenditures through the improvement of the capacity for investment selection and the adoption of
technologies to reduce road maintenance costs.



-3 -
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main issues in the transport sector of FYR Macedonia are associated either with the changing
geographical patterns of trade and transport flows, or with the process of economic transition itself. The
shift from what was primarily a North-South flow to a more balanced distribution of traffic between the
North-South and East-West transport corridors has exposed the inadequate capacity of the East-West
transport infrastructure. FYR Macedonia's transition to a market economy is also resulting in a shift in
transport demand from low-value bulk commodities (generally transported by rail) towards higher value-
added light industrial and agro-industrial products (which need more specialized, flexible, and timely
delivery, more appropriately provided by road transport). This long-term modal shift puts additional
financial pressure on the MR, whose viability is further jeopardized by its production rather than market
orientation.
The Government's strategy regarding the road subsector focuses on upgrading the country's main
highways to international standards, both on the East-West axis between Bulgaria and Albania, and on the
North-South road from Serbia to Greece. There is a special emphasis on improving the access routes to
sea ports (all located in countries neighboring landlocked FYR Macedonia), which are already showing
incipient signs of congestion, as well as reducing transport costs in general.
More specifically, the Government's response to the pressing need to upgrade the East-West transport
corridor's capacity is to widen the 35 km-long Skopje-Grupcin-Tetovo section of the M4 motorway,
which is the most heavily-traveled section and is already experiencing the greatest capacity constraintsl.
The East-West corridor (Corridor 8) is one of the ten corridors identified by the European Transport
Commission as the core of the Trans-European Network (TEN). With respect to the railways, the
Government is committed to restructuring the ailing enterprise and ensuring its long-term viability and
financial self-sufficiency. This includes the adequate pricing of rail services, securing funding for
necessary levels of maintenance and investment in the subsector, the establishment of sound financial
management and operating practices, the divestiture of non-core businesses2, and the gradual enhancing
of labor and asset productivity. The following paragraphs provide a more detailed account of the road
and railway subsectors and their main issues.
The Road Subsector
The network
The road network totals 8,216 km of roads of which some 4,900 km, or about 60%, have been
modernized and about 3,300 still have earth surfacing. Roads are classified as Arterial, Regional and
Local. Of the total network, 915 km are Arterial, 2,611 kmn are Regional and 4,690 km are Local. In
addition to the national classification, about 520 km of the arterial roads are part of the European road
1     The Grupcin-Tetovo road section has been built to half-motorway standards, i.e. with only one roadway
shared by traffic moving in both directions. The proposed project will finance the construction of the second
roadway, thus effectively doubling the vehicle capacity on this road section.
2      The divestiture process is already completed. Previous World Bank operations in FYR Macedonia have
supported this process.



-4-
network. The Arterial and Regional roads are the responsibility of the Fund for National and Regional
Roads (FNRR) and Local roads are the responsibility of the municipalities.
The arterial network serves seven major corridors in the country. The historically most important
corridor is served by the 174 km arterial road No. 1, a section of the Trans-European E-75 highway,
which runs roughly north-south across the country from the border with the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) to the border with Greece. This road is the spine of the system and was
the most heavily trafficked road until 1990. About 96 km of this road has been upgraded to
highway/expressway standards and further improvements are being financed by the European Investment
Bank (EIB). The next most important arterial road serving international and national traffic is the East-
West corridor, the subject of this report. The 302 kmI road runs from the Bulgarian border at Deve Bair
through Skopje, Gostivar and Ohrid to the Albanian border and connects Skopje with Sofia, capital of
Bulgaria, and Tirana, capital of Albania as well as linking the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
with ports on the Black Sea. The sections Tetovo-Gostivar and Kicevo-Botun of this corridor were
upgraded to expressway standards under the ongoing Bank-financed Transit Facilitation Project (Loan
3868-MK). The third most important corridor is also in the East-West direction and is served by a 330
km arterial road which runs from the Bulgarian border near Delchevo through Veles, Bitola and Ohrid to
the Albanian and Greek borders. This alignment passes though the central region of the Republic but,
because of very difficult terrain and poor geometric standards, does not serve international traffic well.
Highway Administration and Organization
The FNRR was originally a fully independent road fund with earmarked fuel taxes as its main source of
income. However, during the country's early years of independence, full transfer of fuel taxes to the
Fund was constraining the government's discretion on the use of revenues and was leading to a
suboptimal use of resources. The system was revised, but the "commercial" approach has been to a great
extent preserved. The Fund currently receives, through transfers from the national budget, a portion of
the fuel taxes that cannot be less than 20% or more than 40% of the total tax levied on fuels. While the
fuel tax received by the Fund declined from US$28 million in 1993 to US$10.5 million in 1997, the
reduction was partially offset by increases of about US$5 million in tolls and US$5 million in vehicle
registration fees. FNRR gives high priority to road maintenance and allocations to this end have been
fairly stable throughout the 1993-1998 period. About 75% of the network is in good condition.
The FNRR has a staff of 26 of which 14 are qualified professionals such as engineers, economists, and a
lawyer. They are responsible for preparing road development programs and financing plans as well as
implementing policy directives given by Parliament and/or the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
The law requires a feasibility study to be done on all investment proposals before their inclusion in the
development program.
Planning
The institutional framework and procedures laid down at the central level are adequate for formulating
rational and efficient road development plans. However, actual functioning of the planning procedure
needs strengthening, since some of the approved investments have not been subjected to proper feasibility
studies. FNRR has been contracting feasibility studies for major road investments to local firms. These
studies have been prepared since 1974 in accordance with the now dated Guidelines for Preparing



-  -
Highway Feasibility Studies which were developed with Bank assistance. Individual feasibility studies
have, since 1974, incorporated several improvements to the Guidelines although they have not been
adopted in a systematic way. The ongoing Bank-financed Transit Facilitation Project helped, as a first
step, to familiarize FNRR staff on the basic concepts of economic evaluation of road projects. This has
been done as part of a technical assistance for the design and implementation of a Pavement Management
System (PMS). Several seminars on key issues such as traffic forecasting and user costs were provided
to the staff of FNRR, local consulting firms, and the academia. Still there is a need to develop in FNRR
specific skills that will require a more on-the-job-training approach so as to develop in-house capability to
set the standards and evaluate the quality of contracted studies.
Maintenance
Maintenance of the arterial and regional roads is done by a specialized road maintenance enterprise,
Makedonijapat, with headquarters in Skopje and branches in Bitola, Veles, and Stip. The Managing
Director of Makedonijapat reports directly to the Director of FNRR. Maintenance is scheduled according
to the financial plan issued by the FNRR, and maintenance contracts are awarded annually according to
the plan. The enterprise is well staffed and equipped, road maintenance capability is high, and
maintenance of the network is satisfactory. At present, maintenance priorities are determined by
inspection, which in a small country has produced acceptable results. Technical assistance under the
ongoing Transit Facilitation Project successfully introduced a pilot PMS in 500 km of arterial roads, and
FNRR and Makedonijapat are expanding it to the rest of the network; a process that is expected to be
completed by the end of 1999. The consultants supplied pavement deflection and roughness measuring
equipment to carry out the pilot scheme. To extend the PMS to the rest of the network FNRR is gathering
visual road condition data. The proposed project will finance the purchase of a pavement profilometer
(for roughness and condition measurement), and pavement deflection measurement equipment, in order
to complete replicating, on the national roads and eventually on the regional roads, the data gathered on
the first pilot 500 km.
In accordance with the recommended implementation program, the next steps are, in addition to the
expansion of the program to the whole network, the improvement of the accuracy of the data collection
and the calibration of the PMS for the country's actual road and climatic conditions, road standards,
maintenance procedures, and actual (observed) pavement performance; a task being undertaken by the
FNRR. The consultants also recommended the utilization of lower cost maintenance intervention
options. These options (seals, slurry seals, and surface treatments), which are being used satisfactorily in
many countries to defer higher cost overlays, will be tested on short segments of roads (about 20 km
each) under the proposed project.
Road User Charges (RUCs)
Although RUCs are sufficient to fulfill the primary objective of ensuring the resources needed to meet
short/medium-run marginal costs of the road network and make a significant contribution to road
improvements, there is a need for further analysis to establish to what extent RUCs: (i) differentiate
among different categories of road users to meet the cost of repairs and construction based on their
respective damaging effect or demand for road space; (ii) are currently promoting or deterring road
transport; and (iii) their level relative to the cost of other transport modes leads to an efficient modal split.
Also, to establish if users are paying for an efficient maintenance system, the cost-effectiveness of present



-6-
maintenance arrangements should be reviewed and the possibility of increasing its efficiency through a
scheme encouraging competition with Makedonjiapat should be explored.
The Railways Subsector
The Macedonian Railways (MR) network consists of 696 km of open line and 226 km.of direct (through)
station track. The entire network is single track and 233 km are electrified. The government considers as
a high strategic priority the completion of the 55 km line from Beljakovci to the Bulgarian border, but
construction of this project has slowed down for lack of financing.
Both freight and passenger rail traffic have dropped dramatically in recent years, with current levels of
respectively 2.0 million tons and 1.5 million passengers being only a fraction of those attained in 1990
(6.5 million tons and 5.0 million passengers),3. Due to this precipitous drop in business, and because of
other structural inefficiencies and external pressures (on pricing and staffing decisions), the railways'
financial situation is especially acute. Operating losses (freight traffic covers its operating costs but
passenger traffic does not), debt service and other obligations are covered though Govemrnent
contributions for some debt payments (particularly to financial institutions), non-compliance with
payment of social obligations, non-payment of debt to other railways and increased bartering and
deferred maintenance.
MR was identified as one of the main money losers enterprises in the FYR of Macedonia under the Bank-
financed Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit. As a result of the project, MR substantially
adjusted tariffs upward, reduced the labor force by about 20% (about 900 people), and divested from nine
subsidiaries providing non-core services. In addition, a new Railway Law approved in February 1998
established a clear relationship between the state as the owner of the infrastructure and MR as the
provider of services. The new law gives MR sufficient independence in terms of tariffs and staffing
decisions to permit it to operate on a commercial basis. However, for MR to actually achieve a
"commercial" culture substantial restructuring will be necessary.
The restructuring of MR's organization and improvement of its financial viability is important not just for
the transport sector's efficiency but also on macroeconomic groumds. The Government of the FYR of
Macedonia is aware of the magnitude of the railways' problems, and is committed to continuing the
process of railway restructuring started under the Special Restructuring Program4. MR is to be
downsized, its non-core business unit spin-offs privatized or liquidated, and the company reorganized
along profit centers. More specifically, the program5 to restructure MR includes the following: (i)
establishment of the conditions for effective reform, including the separation of infrastructure
management and transport operations into distinct business activities; (ii) transparent contractual
compensation for unprofitable public services and/or infrastructure support; and (iii) improving
operational efficiency.
3      The magnitude of the drop in rail freight and passenger demand is comparable to that experienced by the
economies of other countries in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
4      This Program was established to address the problems of the 23 largest loss makers, and two utilities (the
electricity company and the railways).
5      The program is fully in line with Directive 91/440 of the EU Transport Commission.



-7-
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
To increase road capacity in the vital East-West transport corridor, the 35 km-long Skopje-Grupcin-
Tetovo road will be widened by adding a second two-lane carriageway (the road presently consists of a
single carriageway, conforming to half-motorway standards). The Bank will finance civil works for the
construction of 15 km of the road section Tetovo-Grupcin, while the European Investment Bank (EIB) is
funding the remainder 20 km. Doubling the road's present capacity will not only relieve congestion
along this corridor, but help to improve road safety in a transport corridor with an unacceptably high
traffic accident rate. The EIB is also supporting the upgrading of the country's main links with Greece.
The proposed project will support improvement of road management through the provision and
implementation of modem information management systems, low-cost maintenance technologies, and
planning tools, as well as a program of technical assistance designed to train FNRR staff in their use.
FNRR is to prepare and present to the Bank, each year, starting in the year of 2000, a road maintenance
program for the subsequent year based on PMS.
The proposed project will support the restructuring of MR through the following: (i) facilitating the
downsizing of MR to a level more in line with actual needs, and boosting the productivity of its
workforce; (ii) helping to improve its overall efficiency, thus minimizing the need for Government
subsidies to the railways subsector; (iii) financing the provision of communications equipment and
computers; (iv) administering technical assistance for improving the railways' organization, management
and planming, and financial controls and accountability; and (v) achieving the objective of modernizing
MR, undertaking an intensive program to train abroad MR's management in working methods and
commercial marketing principles. The proposed project will emphasize structural measures to change the
railway culture from a production-oriented one to a client-oriented operation. The project will therefore
focus on supporting a process of change that will couple downsizing efforts with structural changes that
will pave the way for future private-sector participation.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Cost Incl.    % of Total   Bank-   % of
Component               Category    Contingencies            financing    Bank-
(US$m)                 (US$m)   fimancing
Improvement of Tetovo-Grupcin Road   Civil works     23.1      55.4       15.0      46.9
Pilot Maintenance Project         Civil Works        4.6       11.0       3.0        9.4
Design/Supervision of Pilot Maint.  Consultants      0.4        1.0       0.4        1.3
Project
Equipment for FNRR                  Goods             1.2       2.9        1.2       3.8
TA and Training for FNRR          Consultants        0.2        0.5       0.2        0.6
Equipment for MR                    Goods            11.5      27.6       11.5      35.9
TA and Training for MR            Consultants         0.4       1.0       0.4        1.3
Front End Fee                        Fee              0.3       0.7       0.3        0.9
Total           41.7    100.0*       32.0    100.0*
*Due to rounding, the actual sum is not 100.0%.



-8-
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the implementation of an Action Plan aiming at restoring the long-term viability
of MR by 2002. The plan, which had been agreed during appraisal, was confirmed during negotiations
and contains measures for: (a) cost reductions; (b) Government support in the form of compensation for
public service obligations arising from unprofitable passenger services, low-density branch lines, and cost
of labor downsizing or employing surplus labor; (c) increases in labor productivity; and (d) pricing and
marketing actions. A preliminary five-year business plan prepared by consultants with the financing
from the Canadian Trust Fund, and the Railway Restructuring StLdy prepared by Wilbur Smith Inc. with
financing from the US Trade and Development Agency, provide the basis for the development of the
Action Plan. As a first step during project preparation the Government, in line with the new Railway
Law, approved the administrative separation within MR of infrastructure and operations. The resolution
was published in the Official Gazette of August, 1998.
The existing institutional framework for the road subsector can be assessed overall as satisfactory, though
there is clearly scope for improvement. The present system allows local communities to make specific
road development proposals, and based on these proposals, the iNRR prepares strategic five-year plans
and annual road development programs and submits them to the Parliament for approval. However,
investment programs approved by the Parliament include projects that have not been subjected to proper
feasibility studies, which at times leads to projects being selected based on considerations other than
economic viability and efficiency. And even when feasibility studies are carried out, the approach
adopted often fails to yield sound results. In view of the severe fiscal constraints faced by the
Government, the FNRR is becoming increasingly aware of the need to apply proper economic criteria in
formulating the investment and maintenance program, an effort that started under the ongoing Transit
Facilitation Project. The proposed project will build on the achievements of the ongoing project to
establish in FNRR the in-house capability to use modern evaluation techniques for investment decisions.
3. Benefits and target population:
The principal benefit of the project's road component will be a reduction in vehicle operating costs, as
well as significant time savings for the users of the ]East-West transport corridor. This project component
will also result in improved road safety along the Tetovo-Grupcin road. The beneficiaries of the road
component include all road users, and in particular enterprises engaged in international trade that rely on
the timely delivery of goods.
The main benefits of the railway component include increased reliability of rail transport, the preservation
of railway infrastructure through a sustainable finalncial scheme, a more efficient traffic modal split, and
limiting the railways' demand on the central government budget., The beneficiaries would be all users of
rail transport services, and indirectly all taxpayers through the re(luced fiscal burden.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The FNRR would be responsible for the execution of the road component of the project. MR will be
responsible for implementing the railways component. The Borrower would on lend the proceeds of the
loan on the same terms and conditions as the IBRD loan to FNRR and MR. A Project Coordination Unit



-9 -
(PCU) will be established in FNRR to coordinate project implementation, particularly reporting
responsibilities. A railway Steering Committee, comprising representatives of MR, the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, will oversee the implementation of the
Action Plan for railway restructuring. The establishment of the PCU and the Steering Committee would
be conditions of loan effectiveness. The complete Project Implementation Plan was agreed on during
project appraisal and confirmed during negotiations.
Reporting
The PCU is presently implementing the Transit Facilitation Project satisfactorily. The PCU, in
consultation with FNRR and MR, would be responsible for monitoring progress against agreed
performance indicators specified in Annex 1. The key performance indicators for the project were
confirmed during negotiations.
The PCU will prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual reports no later than June 15 and December 15
of each year of project implementation. The reports would contain the following two sections: (a)
Progress Report; and (b) Work Plan for the Project:
(a)    Semi-annual Progress Report would be prepared by the PCU, in collaboration with FNRR and
MR, and cover the progress of each project component, key performance indicators, and the
traffic and financial accounts for FNRR and MR. The report would cover the progress and
expected completion date for civil works and equipment contracts, progress of the institutional
components and training program, and activities of the PCU. It would also cover the financial
management of the project as elaborated below, including: (a) comparisons of actual physical and
financial outputs, and updated three month project forecast; (b) project financial statements
including sources and applications of funds, expenditure by category statement and special
account reconciliation statement; and (c) procurement management report showing status and
contract commitments. Data on (a) and (b) will be based on quarterly information. The
arrangements for progress reports were agreed on during negotiations.
(b)    Semi-annual Work Plan would be prepared by the PCU  and contain a plan for the
implementation, updated disbursement profile, and target key performance indicators during the
coming semester. Budgets, which would be based on the appraisal estimates, would be amended
where necessary to reflect changes in costs and scope of institutional development components
and studies.
In addition, the PCU will prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term
Review, scheduled for the last quarter of 2000.
Accounting
The FNRR, MR, and PCU will maintain financial management systems - including accounting, financial
reporting, and auditing systems, adequate to ensure that they provide to the Bank accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures. Prior to loan effectiveness, the Borrower and
the PCU will have in place accounting and internal control systems that accord with International



-10-
Accounting Standards and that reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial
transactions of the project and provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring
project activities. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-component.
Auditing
The financial statements, the Special Account and the Statements of Expenditure would be audited at the
end of each fiscal year during project implementation, in accordance with international standards on
auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit would include: (a) assessment of the
adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial
transactions and ensure safe custody of the project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the
borrower and the PCU have maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; (c)
verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank: are eligible for financing; and (d) identification of
any ineligible expenditures. Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the close of the country's fiscal year. The audit report will cover both the compiled account of
expenditures incurred during the fiscal year, and the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) used for
withdrawals from the Special Accounts. Special attention shall be made to confirm the transparency and
accountability of the use of funds from the beneficiaries. During negotiations, it was agreed that FNNR
will appoint auditors satisfactory to the Bank no later than June 30, 1999. The cost of the auditing
services will be shared on a pro-rata basis between FNNR and MR. Terms of Reference for the audit and
the selection of the auditors would be reviewed by the Bank every year.
Internal Controls
The audit of the PCU for the Transit Facilitation Project found that there were no major problems with
internal controls. Nevertheless, a simple but efficiernt financial management system would be developed
prior to the project launching with the assistance of qualified financial experts. These accounting and
auditing arrangements and requirements were also agreed on during negotiations.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two alternatives were considered for the upgrading of the Tetovo-Grupcin Road: (i) construction of two
new lanes and widening of the existing two lanes to highway standards; and (ii) construction of two lanes
and postponement of the widening of the existing two lanes. The relevant studies showed that the
economic rates of return of the alternatives do not present meaningful differences, since the gains from
deferring investments in the existing lanes are cornpensated by higher mobilization costs later and by
reduced levels of services until the investments are undertaken. The general aims of the railway
restructuring component have been agreed with the GovernmerLt and the management of the railways,
during appraisal and were confirmed during negotiations. As a first step, the Bank supported, through
financing from the Canadian Trust Fund, the preparation of a five-year business plan. The restructuring
alternative selected under the plan is in line with the willingness of the Government to maintain MR as a
public enterprise in charge of infrastructure and operations, while implementing accounting systems to
increase the transparency of the costs and benefits associated with each type of service, and commit the



-11-
Government to pay for those services that, while unprofitable, may be deemed necessary on
environmental or social grounds.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                    Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Reduction of transport costs in the East-  Transit Facilitation Project  HS         HS
West corridor; improvements to road
management; facilitation of transit
through the modernization of customs.
Restructuring the major 25 loss-making   Financial and Enterprise   S                S
public enterprises                  Sector Adjustnent Project
Other development agencies
n/a
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons learned from the two related Bank operations mentioned above are that: (a) the FNRR is an
efficient and effective agency, with outstanding experience in the implementation of projects; (b)
FNRR's main need is in upgrading their skills to carry out planning and evaluation responsibilities which,
until the break up of the former Yugoslavia, were done at the central level in Belgrade; and (c) tariff
increases and divestiture from non-core businesses undertaken under the Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Project helped to ameliorate the short-run problems of MR. However, the long-term viability
of the railways will require in-depth structural changes in the railway culture. These lessons have been
incorporated in project design, particularly in the emphasis to clarify the relationship between the
Government as the owner of the infrastructure and MR as the supplier of services that was agreed for
railway restructuring.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower attaches a very high priority to the upgrading of the Tetovo-Grupcin road, an investment
that had already been considered for Bank financing under the Third Highway Project for the former
Yugoslavia. In the case of the railways, there is firm belief within the institution that changes are
necessary to modernize its operations and align them with the commercial orientation that is sweeping
their European counterparts. Assessment of the extent to which the Government is prepared to go to
implement the more politically difficult measures, particularly the pace of staff reductions is more
difficult. The railways were obligated, under the Structural Adjustment Loan & Credit, to sign contracts
for the privatization, or cease operations and initiate liquidation proceedings for the nine identified
business unit spin-offs. Completion of the privatization which was a condition for negotiations has been
fulfilled. Approval of a new Railway Law in February 1998, recognizing the Government's obligations



-12-
as owner of the infrastructure and providing greater independence to MR to carry out its commercial
operations, is further indication of the Government's intentions to follow the EU's directive on the
commercialization of railway operations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government has requested Bank support to continue with the assistance started under the ongoing
Transit Facilitation Project to upgrade the road network and to strengthen the planning capabilities of
FNRR, an area in which the Bank has substantial experience. In the case of the railways, the Bank is in a
unique position to act as a catalyst to develop the necessary consensus on the path towards railway
restructuring, bringing to the project its successful experience in other regions and other countries
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 4)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 8.5million; ERR= 16%
The economic justification of the project was based on the quantifiable benefits that can be attributed to
the Tetovo-Grupcin road improvement. The investment costs excludes all taxes and duties. A shadow
exchange rate was used to compute the costs of all tradeables involved, using CIF market cost at the
border, to which was added an estimate of local transportation cost. Labor was shadow priced using the
minimal net wage (official minimum wage minus 65% of insurance and employer taxes).
Fiscal impact
The distributive analysis in Annex 4 shows that the projected tolls on the road cover the financial cost of
the investments and is expected to produce a positive flow for the FNRR with a NPV of about US$6.5
million during the life of the project. The direct fiscal impact of the project, in the form of reduced tax
revenues due to road users savings, has a NPV of US$9.5 million for the 20 years of the project life. The
railway component is expected to have a positive fiscal impact in as much as railway restructuring will
allow the railways to cover its operating costs by the year 2002, thus reducing the railway's claims on the
central budget.
2. Financial:
As discussed above, the highway component of tlhe Project, was subjected to a full financial evaluation.
The financial returns from tolls have a NPV of US$6.5 million.
The main financial element of the railway component is the project support to the Government's plan to
restore the long-term financial viability of MR. The plan is based on a study by Canadian consultants (in
the project file) carried out during project preparation with the objective of exploring the potential of the
following measures to improve the financial position of the railways: (i) cost reductions; (ii) Government
support in the form of (a) compensation for PSOs for unprofitable passenger services, for low-density



-13-
branch lines, and for cost of labor downsizing or employing surplus labor; (b) partial or,total takeover, by
a separate entity, of responsibility for the maintenance and renewal of the infrastructure; and (c)
modifying the railway's capital structure through equity infusion in the form of cash payments or debt
conversion; and (iii) pricing and marketing actions. The study is based on: (i) a simple costing model
which was used to separate the costs of freight and passenger services, and to determine the cost of
passenger services or freight movements whose main operating characteristics have been specified; and
(ii) a financial model which estimates expenses, revenues and certain balance sheet elements, given the
values of such variables as traffic volumes, inflation and tariffs. The results were judged in particular by
the profit or loss and by the capital structure. (While the model does not calculate a complete balance
sheet, it does calculate some of its essential values, including net current assets and long-term debt).
At the end of 1996, the railway had a negative current asset value of 3,400 million denars, an extremely
high value for a total revenue of about 2,400 million denars. Under the adopted scenario (in which the
Government pays for PSOs) the net current asset values rise in absolute terms because of the continued
deficit, but begins to decline in the year 2001. This scenario, in which the railway starts being profitable
in the year 2002, shows a reasonable prospect of long-term viability provided three essential conditions
are met: (i) staff reductions of 1500 persons beginning in 1999; (ii) government compensation for
passenger services losses; and (iii) government compensation for unprofitable branch lines. The Railway
Restructuring Plan presented in Annex 1-A, provides the necessary steps/commitments to fulfill those
conditions.
3. Technical:
Technology for the construction of the highway is the traditional one. Technology for maintenance will
include the introduction of a new technology (surface dressing), which has not yet been practiced in FYR
of Macedonia, but already proved in other countries. It is expected to reduce vehicle operation and road
maintenance costs and increase efficiency.
4. Institutional:
(a)    Roads:  The project is expected to have a positive impact through the enhanced training
capability of the FNNR to assess road investment. Further more, the project will continue the
work started under the Transit Facilitation Project and will support the FNNR to make the
Pavement Management System (PMS) operational at the network level. This will resolve in the
use of a modern management tool in road maintenance decision.
(b)    Railways: In the railway subsector the project is expected to have a substantial impact through
the restructuring of the railways to operate on a commercial basis.
5. Social:
The possible social negative impact of the project, related to labor reduction in the MR, has been taken
into account in the design of the project. To the extent possible, labor reduction will be achieved through
attrition and/or voluntary retirement. In any case, the pace of labor reduction will take into account the
social and economic environment and the capability of the other sectors to absorb redundant labor.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   [ ] A   [X] B   []C



-14-
The works under the project do not involve any new road construction but widening of the road over an
existing alignment. There is no resettlement of people since, the only case where the road passes close to
an inhabited area (in the road section to be financed under the EIB loan), the road will be elevated to
avoid demolition of about 10 dwellings. The regulations governing the requirements for environmental
screening, analysis and documentation for permitting road works are satisfactory. No land acquisition is
required for construction of the Bank financed section of the road. The only demolition required is for a
gas station which belongs to the railways. An environmental assessment (EA) which has been prepared
(English translation available in the project file) has concluded that there are no major environmental
impacts expected from road construction and operation. The EA identified one area along the Bank-
financed section of the road works which would require mitigative measures: noise control at Zhelino.
The Agency for Environment and Nature Protection (AENP) of the Ministry of Urban Planning,
Construction, and Environment, has reviewed and issued an "Opinion" (English Translation available in
the project file) on the EA. The EA and the mitigating proposed are found satisfactory with the following
requirements: (i) analysis of the impact of quarries and borrow pits and proposals for corresponding
mitigation, and (ii) supplemental description of base line information for comparison of monitoring
parameters during road use. The noise control measures at Zhelino and the measures against impacts of
quarries and borrow pits were incorporated in the tender documents. The final EA report responding to
the requirements set out in the "Opinion", which was a condition for awarding the civil works contract,
was submitted to the Bank on September 23, 1998.
7. Participatory Approach:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The groups related to the road component are road users, freight forwarders, farmers, property owners
and inhabitants of the surrounding villages who are affected by the road. Several consultative meetings
were held at the municipalities of Zhelino, Sarev, Kontovo and Tetovo, with representation of the above
groups, in which the project was presented and discussed. There was no objection from any of the
participants who expressed their support for the project.
A Roundtable was held in Skopje in July 1997 with representatives of major Western European railways
which were, or are in the process of restructuring. The Roundtable, attended by the management of MR
and representatives of the labor unions, thoroughly discussed the implications of railway restructuring.
(b) Other key stakeholders: N/A
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability in the case of the road component is strongly linked to projected demand and
maintenance efforts to protect the planned investments. Existing traffic is already causing substantial
levels of congestion, thus making the project viable even with very conservative growth projections.
Also, FYR Macedonia has a good record of road maintenance. The sustainability of the railway
component will depend to a great extent on the degree of ownership that the Government and the railways



- 15 -
will have of the project. The Government is committed to help the railways to goq from the present
situation of "wanting to do something" to the definition of an implementable action plan. The up-front
measures in the form of having in place the right legal framework for the railways, together with the
progress achieved in divesting from none-core activities and reducing excess staff demonstrated the
commitment of the railways and the Government to align themselves with the directives of the EU
Transport Commission, which enhances the sustainability of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective" and
others
Road component of the project
Shift of priority to competing projects           N        Continue dialogue on investment priorities.
Availability of counterpart funds                 N        Government's commitment has been
confirmed.
Maintaining professional staffing at levels       N        FNRR's professionals have a proven track
necessary to ensure the capacity-building                  record.
Delays in developing in-house capabilities        N        TA design to fit absorption capacity-Intense
supervision of institutional components.
Railway component of the project
Insufficient political will and/or institutional  S        Ensure consensus on the railways' action plan
weakness                                                   for restructuring.
Satisfactory implementation of the agreed Railway  S       The commitment of the Government and MR
Restructuring Action Plan                                  was confirmed during negotiations. Retention
of consultants for the Restructuring Plan is a
Acceptance of the cultural change by the employees  S      condition of disbursement for the railway
component of the project.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs" and
others
Road component of the project
Ensure component sustainability through improved  N        The Bank will monitor through reports and
maintenance planning.                                      missions.
Railway component of the project
Lack of institutional commitment, political will  S        Agree on implementable railway action plan
and/or budgetary allocations.                              that takes into consideration optimal political
timing.
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport and    N        The Bank will monitor through reports and
Communications, and MR take active role in the             missions.
establishment of a system for the payment of PSO.
Overall Risk Rating                               M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The pace of railway restructuring could be subjected to various political factors and considerations.
Especially, public opinion may turn against MR reform and this could put pressure on the government's
ability to make the required decisions. However, as explained in E 5 above, the project will be
implemented in accordance with the social and economic environment.



16-
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    The Borrower to establish the PCU with terms of reference and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank.
(ii)   The subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and each of
the FNRR and MR.
(iii)   The Steering Committee has been established by the Borrower with representatives from the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and Commumications and MR.
(iv)   A financial management system has been developed.
2. Conditionsfor Disbursement of railway part of the Project:
MR to appoint consultants satisfactory to the Bank to help implement the following assignments of the
Railway Restructuring Action Plan: (i) development of a passenger costing methodology and initial
analysis of passenger traffic, (ii) implementation of a freight traffic costing system, and (iii) revision of
maintenance standards.
3. Other conditions:
(i)    The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation
Plan.
(ii)   The Borrower shall cause, FNRR to maintain the PCU with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank and with staff whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference
are satisfactory to the Bank to coordinate the carrying out of activities under the project.
(iii)   The FNRR, MR, and PCU  will maintain financial management systems, including
accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems, adequate to ensure that they provide to
the Bank accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures.
(iv)   FNNR shall appoint auditors satisfactory to the Bank by June 30, 1999.
(v)    The Borrower shall cause the PCU to maintain policies aind procedures adequate to enable it
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Bank, the carrying out of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(vi)   The Borrower through the PCU, shall submiit to the Bank by June 15 and December 15 of
each year (a) progress report and; (b) a work plan for the implementation of the project for
the next six month period.
(vii)  FNRR shall prepare and present to the Bank, each year, starting in the year of 2000, a road
maintenance program for the subsequent year based on the results of the PMS.
(viii)  FNRR will carry out the testing of low maintenance technologies on road sections selected
through the PMS on the basis of economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank. In particular, the
proposed interventions would have an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of at least 20%.
(ix)   The Borrower shall cause the PCU to prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the project.
(x)    The Borrower shall cause the PCU to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and furnish to the Bank on or about September 30, 2000 a report integrating the results



-17-
of the monitoring and evaluation in preparation for a mid-term review to take place in
December 1, 2000.
(xi)   The Borrower shall (a) implement and shall cause the MR to implement the Action Plan for
Railway Restructuring with due diligence and efficiency; and (b) maintain the Steering
Committee with functions, responsibilities and composition acceptable to the Bank to
coordinate implementation of the Action Plan for Railway Restructuring.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. ( ] Not applicable.
pQ The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[Xm The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Program Team Leader: Mirtha Pokomy
*3< lIhz 3t u 6
p Sector Director: Ricardo A. IHalperin
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber



- 18-
Annex 1
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                     (Goal to Bank Mission)
Private-sector led growth in a  An enterprise sector adapted to   Improved profitability of major   Existence of the necessary
market-based economy.          the competitive provision of  enterprises; staffing levels more   political will to make difficult
services in a market-based    in line with actual operational    choices and decisions regarding
environment; transfer of      needs.                         major enterprises.
ownership of enterprises (where
applicable).
Fiscal stability and balance.  Enterprises able to operate   Reduced levels and absolute    Cessation of political pressures
without or with reduced       amounts of subsidies to the    to maintain loss-making
subsidies from the Government.  railways.                    services; Government's decision
to focus on keeping the central
budget balanced.
Increased competitiveness of  Reduced transport costs for the   Improvement in balance of   No new trade barriers, either
domestic products.            movement of all goods and      trade; rise in fcreign currency    internal or external (from
passengers; transport's reduced   earning and reserves.      neighboring countries, or
share in overall product price;                              principal trading partners);
timely delivery of goods.                                    upgrading of transport
infrastructure in neighboring
countries.
Improved public sector        Enhanced capability of public  More efficient road and rail   Adequate counterparts and/or
management.                   sector enterprises to carry out    subsector planning and     absorptive institutional capacity.
their functions.              operations; enhanced road
= _ _____________________   planning and rnanagement.
Project Development Objective:                                                              (Objective to Goal)
To improve the efficiency of the   Lower cost of road transport on   *   PCU reports        Adequate absorptive capacity;
road and railway systems.     the Tetovo-Grupcin section:                                   adequate competition in the
(Reduced "road user                                          trucking industry so that the
cost/vehicle kmi" as measured by                             economy at large benefits from
HDM, and increased time                                      efficiency gains.
savings measured by "average
travel speed").
Enhanced efficiency and       *   Improvement in efficiency   Low turnover of the FNRR
increased in-house capability of   of public expenditures on    staff.
the FNRR to plan and program       roads
investments, monitor pricing of   *   Bank supervision mission
road services, and rationalize     and/or consultant's reports.
maintenance expenditures.
Increased efficiency and lower    *   Bank supervision mission    *   Satisfactory
cost of railway operations:       and/or reports.                implementation of the
(Reduced costs and increased                                      agreed Railway
labor productivity, and adoption                                 Restructuring Action Plan
of a system for Public Service                                   (Annex l.A).
Obligations (PSO)).                                          *   Acceptance of the cultural
_________________________   ________________________                    change  by  the  employees.



-19 -
Outputs.                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
1. Upgraded Tetovo-Grupcin    Completion of 15 km of road  Periodic project monitoring  *  Maintaining this project's
road section.                upgrading by March 2000.     reports.                          priority over competing
transport projects.
v   Availability of counterpart
funds.
2. Implementation of the Pilot   Selection and assessment of low   Periodic project monitoring  N/A.
Road Maintenance Project.    cost maintenance intervention    reports.
methods.
Pavement Management System
(PMS) implemented for the
whole road network.
Annual road maintenance
programs based on PMS.
3. Strengthened planning and    At least two members of FNRR   Periodic project monitoring  Maintaining professional
management capabilities of the   fully conversant on modem  reports and consultant's reports.  staffing at levels necessary to
Fund for National and Regional  project evaluation techniques.                          ensure the capacity-building.
Roads.
Have in place a Bridge
Management System and a
system for monitoring road user
charges. Choice of software.
4. Purchase and utilization of   Purchase and use of the   Periodic project monitoring  N/A.
the equipment for the data   equipment.                    reports and consultant's reports.
gathering on roads condition.
5. Implementation of the     Improvement in railways'      Periodic project monitoring  *   Satisfactory
technical assistance and training   organization; management and   reports based on agreed railway  irnplementation of the
to help establish MR as an   planning; and financial controls  performance targets (Annex 1-A  agreed Railway
autonomous railway company    and accountability.          and l-B).                        Restructuring Action Plan
run on commercial basis.                                                                     (Annex l-A).
Implementation of an intensive                             *   Sufficient political will.
program to train abroad MR's                               *   Acceptance of the cultural
management in working                                          change by the employees.
methods and commercial
marketing principles.
Implementation of Restructuring
Action Plan as described in
Annex 1-A and 1-B.
Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budgetfor each                                (Components to Outputs)
components:                           component)
(see Annex 2for project
description)
Civil works for expanding the    US$23.1 million           Inputs will be monitored and  Ensure component sustainability
Tetovo-Grupcin road link.                                  evaluated through project    through improved maintenance
monitoring and disbursement    planning.
Equipment for FNRR.          US$1.2 million                reports.
Equipment for railways.      US$11.5 million
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-20-
Civil Works for Road         US$4.6 million
Maintenance.
Consultant for Road          US$0.4 million
Maintenance Project.
TA and Training to FNRR:
(i)     Training/Bridge      US$0.15 million
Management
(ii)    User charge study.   US$0.05 million
Railway Restructuring:                                                                  *   Continued commitment of
(i)     Technical assistance    US$0.05 million                                             the Govemment to
for the implementation                                                              implement railway policy
of financial and                                                                    and institutional reformns.
costing models.                                                                 *   Ministry of Finance,
(ii)    Technical assistance    US$0.15 million                                             Ministry of Transport and
for the implementation                                                              Conimunications and MR
of a PSO system.                                                                    take active role in the
(iii)    Training and study  US$0.2 million                                                 establishment of
tours.                                                                              transparent system for the
payment of PSO.



-21 -
Annex 1-A
Railway Restructuring Action Plan
Objective                                         Actions
First Phase
Establish a modus operandi which clearly  (i) MR to submit financing plan for infrastructure to Government
enforces the responsibilities of the  and the Bank. (September 1, 1999 and every year thereafter)
Government as owner of the
infrastructure and of MR as the supplier   (ii) Government and Bank comments on MR plan (October 30, 1999
of services,                          and every year thereafter)
(iii) Revised and agreed infrastructure financing plan included in the
national budget (December 31, 1999 and every year thereafter)
Second Phase
(i) With consultants assistance, MR to develop a passenger costing
Develop a workable system of PSO.     methodology and an initial analysis of passenger traffic to identify
commercial and social services (September 1, 1999)
(ii) Government and Bank comments on MR's request for PSO
assistance on social passenger services (October 30, 1999 and every
year thereafter)
(iii) Government to include agreed PSO request in the national
budget (November 30, 1999 and every year thereafter)
Third Phase
(i) With consultants assistance, MR to improve and implement a
Ensure MR financial health through    freight traffic costing system (models assigning variable costs to
appropriate tariffs and resolution of the    individual freight shipments) (December 1999)
old debt issue.
(ii) MR to establish a freight profit accounting center. (December
1999)
(iii) MR and the Government to agree on an approach, satisfactory
to the Bank, to address the issue of MR's old debts, particularly in
the definition of what MR will have to repay from its intemal
resources.
Other
Improve MR capacity for evaluating    (i) MR to hire consultants to review maintenance standards and
standards and costs. Inprove MR       recormnend revised standards for use in future infrastructure plans
accounting system.                    (March 1999-June 1999)
(ii)With consultants assistance, MR to analyze freight tariffs and
costs to identify unprofitable traffic and restructure the freight tariff
system to improve profitability (March 31, 2000). (Govermment may
review MR's proposed tariff structure but will not intervene unless it



-22 -
wishes to impose discount tariffs on specified traffic and reimburse
MR through the PSO)
(iii) MR to identify changes needed in its accounting system to
support freight and passenger profit centers and cost calculations
provided to the Government (March 31, 2000)
(iv)With the help of consultants MR to implement changes in its
accounting system and establish a MIS satisfactory to the Bank.
(June 30, 2000)
Training
(i) MR to send qualified individuals to the US and/or Europe for
training in the development and use of information systems to
manage business oriented railways and in working with Government
to verify costing systems for submission of costs to Government.
(March 2000-June 2001)
Performance Improvements
Strengthen MR management capabilities.  (i) MR to update its five-year business plan (August 2000 and every
year thereafter)
(ii) MR to take the necessary measures to achieve the targets related
to financial results, labor productivity and asset productivity as set
forth in Annex 1-B.



-23 -
Annex 1-B
Railway Restructuring Action Plan
Performance Targets for the Macedonian Railways
ITEMS              1999    2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
VOLUME OF WORK
Ton km. (mill)                  421    469    508    555    611    642    670
Pass. Km. (mill)                168    196    225    255    294    325    366
TIJ                             589    665    733    810    905    967   1036
CAPACITIES
Locomotives:
-  diesel                        40      40      39      38      37      36      35
-  electric                      13      13      13      13      13      13      13
Wagons                         2116  *2003   1874   1701   1578   1578   1578
Coaches                          93      92      87      79      68      60      53
EMPLOYEES                      3123   3123   2729   2729   2729   2729   2729
Labor productivity (000 TU      190    213    269    297    332    354    380
/employment)                                                        l
REVENUES (mill DN)             1806   2005   2112   2278   2478   2595   2712
Freight                        1296   1444   1534   1683   1863   1964   2047
Passenger                       200    283    296    320    340    366    390
Other                           310    278    282    275    275    265    275
OPERATING COSTS                2384   2404   2205   2254   2293 | 2392   2498
EXPLOITATION (PROFIT)            98    280    515    634    798    852    909
Net operating income           -578   -399    -93        24     185    203 1  214
Government infrastructure       676    679    608    610    613    649    695
support                                                                     l
INVESTMENTS (mill. $)           44.9   67.7      56    27.4   27.9   29.9 1  35.2
-  infrastructure               36.3   56.1   47.6   19.0   27.0   29.0   29.0
-  capacities                    8.6   11.6    8.4    8.4    0.9    0.9 j   6.2



-24-
Annex 2
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Project Description
1. Upgrading of the Tetovo-Grupcin Road Section-US$23.1 million (Civil Works: US$23.1 million)
FYR Macedonia's principal East-West artery, the M-4 Highway, stretches from the Bulgarian border in
the East to Qafasan on the Albanian border (northern fork) or Ohrid (southern fork) in the West,
intersecting with the country's main North-South trunk roads at or near the capital, Skopje.
The project's road improvement component will focus on widening one of the most heavily-traveled6
parts of this East-West road, the 35 km-long section between Skopje and Tetovo. The proposed Bank
loan will finance the widening of the 15 km from Tetovo to Grupci:n, while the remaining 20 km are
being financed by the European Investment Bank. The Skopje-Tetovo road stretches from a bridge over
the Vardar River at its eastern end (on the outskirts of Skopje), to the junction at Zelino with the northern
end of the Tetovo-Gostivar road7.
Geometric improvements to the existing road conforming to Trans-European Motorway (TEM) Standards
(design speed 100 km/h) have already been made. However, during the civil works' first phase, only one
carriageway of the divided motorway has so far actually been constructed (known as a half-motorway
standard), and without any emergency lanes. This half-motorway features controlled access (on-and-off
ramps), service roads for local traffic, and pedestrian/vehicular underpasses. The proposed widening to
full motorway standard would therefore not impact the conditions already existing for local communities
alongside the road (i.e. access to farms, pedestrian safety, etc.).
The road would be constructed to full TEM rural standard, with two divided two-lane carriageways, each
7.5 meters wide and with an emergency lane 2.5 meters wide. Nearly all construction would take place
on the northern side of the existing half-motorway. The existing two-lane pavement would in turn
become the eastbound carriageway's exterior travel lane and emergency lane. To this would be added a
second paved travel lane, a grass median at least 4.0 m wide, and two new travel lanes plus emergency
lane, with a I.Om beam.
The on/off ramps for the southern (westbound) carriageway and the :paved service roads to the south of
the motorway (where most of the roadside communities are located) would remain fully serviceable, as
they now are.  Existing pedestrian/vehicular underpasses would be extended, the overpasses at
interchanges lengthened, and the corresponding on/off ramps (needed to complete the interchanges)
6     In 1996, the Average Daily Traffic volumes (AADT) on this road section ranged from 8,800 vpd near
Skopje to 8,050 vpd near Tetovo.
7     The widening of the Tetovo-Gostivar road to 4-lane standard was partly financed by the Bank under the
Transit Facilitation Project (Loan 3868-MK). Despite the fact that its traffic volume is lower than that on the more
heavily-traveled Skopje-Tetovo road, the widening of this section was given priority because of its inferior
geometric characteristics and poorer pavement condition.



-25 -
constructed. In addition, the construction of three full interchanges, two overpasses, and two bridges over
local roads would be completed.
The Tetovo by-pass, also constructed to half-motorway standards, does not carry sufficient traffic to
justify its widening at the present time. However, the interchange where the widened motorway would
split into two traffic routes (one into the city, the other around it) would need to be constructed to
accommodate eventual future widening of the by-pass itself.
2. Pilot Road Maintenance Project (Civil Works: US$4.6 milion; Consultants: US$0.4 million)
The proposed project will include financing of a civil works contract and consultants to test alternative
maintenance intervention options on several road sections. These will be chosen utilizing the PMS
results to provide FNRR and Makedonjiapat experience and feedback concerning (i) how and when to
utilize alternative technologies (seals, slurry seals and/or surface treatments); (ii) specifying, contracting
and supervising, including quality control, of such works; (iii) the actual costs in FYR Macedonia of
those works in "representative areas"; and (iv) performance in prolonging pavement life of the treated
road sections. To achieve the needed transfer of technology as part of the pilot effort, experienced
international assistance would be engaged to work with FNRR and Makedonjiapat engineers in the
specification, preparation of bidding and/or contract documents as well as the supervision of the pilot
contracts.
3. Technical Assistance and Training to FNRR (US$0.2 million)
The proposed project will provide technical assistance to FNRR to design and implement a Bridge
Management System and to establish a methodology to assess and monitor the adequacy of Road User
Charges. In addition, 2-3 members of FNRR will be trained abroad in the use of modern techniques for
the economic evaluation of road investments.
4. Equipment for FNRR (US$1.2 million)
The project will finance equipment to support data gathering on roads condition as part of the effort to
improve the accuracy of the PMS. It is expected that a bump integrator and a deflectometer, as well as
traffic counters will be procured under the project.
5. Equipment for Macedonian Railways - (US$11.5 million)
The project will finance the provision of equipment to upgrade communications in the Macedonian
Railways. The specific items to be provided will include the following: (i) a computer system for the
Macedonian Railways to replace an existing system unable to cope with the "year 2000 problem"; (ii)
communication equipment; and (iii) a dispatching radio system for the rail network.
6. Technical Assistance and Training for Restructuring Macedonian Railways - (US$0.4 milion)
The restructuring of the Macedonian Railways will be facilitated by technical assistance for the following
activities: (i) improving the railways' organization, management and planning, and financial controls and



-26 -
accountability; and (ii) an intensive program to train abroad MR's management in working methods and
commercial marketing principles. The change process will couple downsizing efforts with structural
changes that will pave the way for future private-sector participation. Consultants will be retained to
evaluate current railway maintenance standards, to support MR and the Government in the preparation of
agreements on PSO and to establish profit centers for operations.



-27-
Annex 3
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Estimated Project Costs8
Project Component                                            Local          Foreign         Total
-----------------------US $ million-----------------
Roads
1. hnproving of the Tetovo-Grupcin Road Section               8.1              15.0          23.1
2. Pilot Maintenance Project
Pilot Civil Works (Sealing)                                1.6             3.0            4.6
Pilot Project Supervision/Design                          0.0              0.4            0.4
3. Technical Assistance and Training to FNRR                  0.0              0.2            0.2
4. Equipment for FNRR                                         0.0               1.2           1.2
Front-End Fee                                               0.0              0.2           0.2
Roads Sub-Total                                                9.7             20.0          29.7
Railways
5. Equipment for Railways
Computer System                                             0.0              4.0           4.0
Communication Equipment (CTC)                               0.0              1.5           1.5
Dispatching Radio System                                    0.0              6.0           6.0
6. Technical Assistance and Training for MR
Training                                                    0.0              0.2           0.2
Technical Assistance for PSO                                0.0             0.15          0.15
Technical Assistance for fnancial and cost model            0.0             0.05          0.05
Front-End Fee                                              0.0              0.1           0.1
Railways Sub-Total                                             0.0             12.0          12.0
Total Project Cost (including contingencies)                   9.7             32.0          41.7
8      The figures may not add up exactly, due to rounding off to the nearest US$0.1 million.



-28 -
Annex 4
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Economic and Distributive Analysis
of the Tetovo-Grupcin Road Component
Methods and assumptions
Sources
The present analysis is made on the basis of a consultant's feasibility study and annex to this feasibility
study, and on data collected by the July 1997 and April 1998 Bank missions. The consultant's feasibility
study and annex (including traffic studies, preliminary designs, construction cost structure) are available
in the project file.
Costs and benefits
Construction costs were the last estimate collected during the appraisal mission in April 1998. The
breakdown between labor, fuel, material, equipment and expropriation costs, as well as between
tradeables and non-tradeables, is taken from the May 1997 annex to the feasibility study.
Benefits are savings on vehicle operating costs (vehicle use and gas costs) and savings on time. Vehicle
operating costs were computed using the HDM-Q model, which takes congestion effects into account.
The data tables of fixed input values that have been used are presented in the technical note attached to
this annex. Some costs and traffic growth were taken as variable parameters (see technical note). Time
savings have been quantified according to income or cost of labor estimates for different user groups
(professional, non-professional, owners of a private vehicle or users of public transportation).
Due to lack of reliable data, safety savings have not been quantified. The Tetovo-Grupcin road suffers a
great number of accidents (the highest among the country's roads), especially due to heavy truck traffic
and insufficient shoulder space. The project is expected to consideralbly improve the safety of this road.
'Therefore, the economic returns presented below are significantly understated. Moreover, the option of
delaying the widening of the older two lanes has lower safety benefits (due to the lack of emergency
shoulder) than the option of doing all civil works at once.
Project alternatives
The present Tetovo-Grupcin'road is a two-lane road with limited or no shoulders. The project consists of
(i) adding two new lanes that include an emergency shoulder according to European standards, and (ii)
widening the existing lanes to the same standard and resurfacing them. In accordance with the technical
annex to the August 1997 aide-memoire, three scenarios were considered:
The base scenario is the case where the road is kept in its current state with some amount of maintenance
corresponding to the FNRR normal maintenance program (mainly regular maintenance and some
patching when needed).
Another scenario is to fully execute the works (new lanes + widening of existing lanes) at the same time
(starting at the end of 1998).



-29-
The third scenario is to build the two new lanes according to the European standards, and delay the
widening and resurfacing of the old lanes for some years. The year in which the resurfacing and widening
will need to be done has been determined for the average traffic scenario using an HDM analysis (see
technical note below).
Traffic forecasts
Traffic growth rates were forecast by local consultants for each category of vehicles:
Cars          Buses           Medium trucks   Heavy trucks    Total
1995 share    68,3%         5,1%            10,8%           15,8%           100,0%
1996 AADT    5428           405             858             1256            7948
Growth rates                                                                Average
1996-2000     4,8%          4,6%            4,4%            4,5%           4,7%
2001-2019     4,4%          4,1%            3,9%            3,9%            4,3%
Annual average daily traffic (AADT) for the year 1996 averaged 7948 vehicles per day over the section,
with a mix of intercity and commuter traffic patterns. Future traffic demand incorporated the experience
gained by the tolled Tetovo-Gostivar road section, which shows that demand is fairly inelastic within the
toll levels planned for Tetovo-Grupein (US$0.03 per km for private vehicles to US$0.18 per km for
heavy vehicles).
No generated traffic is expected from the project.
Period of analysis
The period of analysis is twenty years. The initial date is January 1999. The residual value of the
investment has been neglected.
Shadow prices
The analysis was made in constant December 1998 Denars. A shadow exchange rate was used to
compute the costs of all tradeables involved (in construction as well as road user costs), using the
estimated CIF market cost at the border, to which was added an estimate of local transportation cost. As
for the shadow cost of labor, which is difficult to estimate given the high unemployment rate in FYR
Macedonia, the analysis uses the minimal net wage (gross wage = net wage + 65% social insurance and
employer taxes). For all these shadow values, a sensitivity analysis (see below) has been performed
between lower bound and upper bound values, in order to evaluate the need for further refinement. This
analysis shows that results are not sensible to changes in shadow values and there is no need to further
refine their estimation.



-30-
Results
The results of the economic analysis for the average traffic scenario are:
Project option
January 1999 net present economic  Full construction starting at  Two new lanes in 2000, widening and
values, in million Denars, at a 12%  the end of 1998     resurfacing of the old lanes in 2005
discount rate, of
Incremental costs
Construction                   1 061                     938
Maintenance                    18                        19
Incremental benefits
Vehicle operation              1 272                     1 162
Time                           249                       239
Increased safety              (Not quantified)           (Not quantified)
Total NPV                      442                       444
NPV of options
6000
5000  \        
-   4000 -
E 3000 
3000                                     ....> Widening delayed
.~  2000            K                             FuR works
1000x
0-
-1000        5%    10%    15%    20%
discount rate
The two options seem equally economically justified. However, the service level would be higher for the
one-stage option. Non-quantified safety benefits and, non-quantified traffic disturbance costs during
construction make the one-staged construction option more advisable, from a cost-benefit point of view.
Moreover, the economic value of the two-staged construction option is more sensitive to variations in the
traffic forecast.



-31 -
The economic rate of return of the project is expected to be 16%.
Sensitivity of NPV to various factors
2500
+  TraffRc Growth Coefficient./.
2000
Shadow cost of labor, from 0 to 
450 Denars/day
g~1500 
e              -~- Shadow exchange rate, from 57 to
a                    70 Denars/US$
_1000       -u-average import duty rate
>   500
00
0,40, 0,8                             1       1,2     1,4      1,6      1,8
-500
Index between max and min values
Sensitivity and risk analysis
A sensitivity test between reasonable upper and lower bounds was made on the various factors that were
either estimates of actual values or forecasts. Some of these tests are presented on the above graph. The
tests show that the single most significant factor is traffic growth. All other factors have been estimated
with a sufficient precision as compared to the uncertainty introduced by the traffic growth forecast.
The sensitivity of the project's economic rate of return (ERR) to the traffic growth forecast is presented
below. No traffic growth from 1998 onwards would still lead to an 8% ERR, which is acceptable.
25,0%
20,0%
15,0%
10,0%
5,0%
0,0%              I
0           0,5 Traffic GroAvth Factor  1,5        2
(0 corresponds to no growth,
I corresponds to the "average" forecast,
i.e. 4,3% annual growth, and 2 to 8,5% growth)



-32-
The net present value of the project represents about 40% of initial costs. Hence, construction cost
overruns would have a significant impact on project returns. A 150%1 overrun in civil engineering costs
would lead to an ERR of 14%, a 30% overrun to an ERR of 13%. However, previous road projects
planned and implemented by the FNRR have shown no or very limited cost overruns.
No particular technical risks are associated to the project. Hence, project risks are considered to be low.
Distributive analysis
(All values are net December 1, 1998 values expressed in estimated constant January 1999 million
Denars).
T  Financiall  User        Increased
Economic    Conversion      value to      financial       tax
factor __agency            benefits     revenues
Costs
Construction costs               -1 061         1.219        -1 293                        232
Additional maintenance              -18           1.6          -29                           11
Benefits
Vehicle use                       1 186         1.348                       1 599         -413
Gas                                  86         3.022                        261           -175
Timne savings                      249            1.6                        398           -149
Tolls                                                         1 663        -1 663
TOTAL                              442                         :341          594           -494
Tolls will be collected on the widened road by the FNRR (US$0.03 per km. for private vehicles). As it
can be seen from above, they are expected to cover the financial cost of the investment as well as the loss
of tax revenues from road users due to the project.
The domestic road haulage sector has been privatized, and in June 1997 it counted 1600 private trucking
companies with TIR registration, corresponding to about 8000 trucks (average load 20T.). Smaller trucks
are also operated, without TIR registration. Large construction companies or industries have their own
fleet of about 6000 trucks. The fleet is globally old and requires to be gradually replaced to meet
international regulations. The main foreign competitors are from Bulgaria, as there is no bilateral trucking
agreement between FYR Macedonia and Bulgaria. The level of competition is estimated to be sufficient
to ensure that project benefits will be passed onto the whole economy.



- 33 -
Technical note
Construction costs
Construction costs are based on the last estimate given during the April 1998 mission. From the May 1997 Annex to
the Tetovo-Grupcin section of the Skopje-Tetovo M4 feasibility study. The foreign exchange component of the
costs, as well as the breakdown between the different cost categories, are given the May 1997 Annex to the Skopje-
Tetovo M4 feasibility study for a representative sample of 73.25% of the construction costs.
All construction materials paid in local currency are considered non-tradeable.
Equipment has been considered as a tradeable commodity.
Construction has been assumed to take place over a 2-year period (1999-2000), with a disbursement profile
estimated by the FNRR.
Vehicle operating cost model
In order to perform a sensitivity and risk analysis, forecasted traffic growth rates have been multiplied by a Traffic
Growth Factor (TGF). TGF = 1 corresponds to the consultants' forecasted traffic growth; TGF = 0 to a constant
traffic.
Total net present user benefits (savings on gas, savings on other vehicle operation costs, and time savings) have
been modelized as a function of the TGF by 6-degree Lagrange polynomials taking in seven points (TGF = 0, 0.25,
0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.35, 1.7) the values given by the HDM-Q v3.0 model. These functions can be estimated as giving in
any point between TGF = -0.25 and TGF = 2 values insignificantly different than those given by the HDM model.
The data inputs for the HDM model are given in tables below.
HDM Input data tables
ANALYSIS CONTROL
Analysis Period (years)              20
Calendar Year of Initial Year        1998
Input Currency Name                  Tens of Denars
ROAD CHARACTERISTICS
Road Class (Paved/Unpaved)           P
GEOMETRY
Road Length (km)              31.5           Road Width (m)        7.7
One Shoulder Width (m) 0.0           Effective Number of Lanes     2.0
Rise & Fall (m/km)            50.0           Curvature (deg/kin)   4.0
Superelevation (%)
ENVIRONMENT
Altitude (m)                  380            Rainfall (m/month)    0.0500



-34-
SURFACE
Surface Type                         2
Thickness: New Surfacing Layers (mm)   60
Old Surfacing Layers (nmn)           0
BASE/SUBGRADE
Base Type             3              Subgrade CBR(%)       8
If Cement Stabilized Base: Thickness of Base Layers (mm)   0
Resilient Modulus of Soil Cement (GPa)                     0
STRENGTH
Structural Number     4.00           Benkelman Beam Deflection (mni).
CONDITION
Roughness (IRI)       3.5            Construction Fault Code 0
Area All Cracks (%)   10.0           Wide Cracks (%)       5.0
Potholes (%)          0.000          Ravelled (%)          0.0
Rut Depth (mm) 5             Rut Depth St. Deviation (mm) 2
HISTORY
Surfacing Age (y)     10             Construction Age (y)    10
For Old Surfacing Layers, Previous Area of Wide Cracks (%) 0
DETERIORATION FACTORS
Roughness-age Term    1.52
Cracking Initiation   1.00           Cracking Progression    1.00
Ravelling Initiation  1.00           Rut Depth Progression   1.00
Pothole Progression   1.00           Roughness Progression   1.00
TRAFFIC
Light  Med.  Heav.  Artic.
Car    Pickup Bus    Truck  Truck  Truck  Truck
Average Daily Trafic         5962   0       443    0       936    0       1371
Traffic Growth (%)           4.8    0.0    4.6    0.0    4.4    0.0    4.5
Change Traffic Growth in Year 2000
New Traffic Growth (%)       4.4    0.0    4.1    0.0    3.9    0.0    3.9
CONGESTION
Include Congestion Effects (Y/N) Y
Road Type                    Two Lane
Road Use                     Commuter
Roadside Friction            0.95
CONSTRUCTION POLICY
Description           Two new lanes - widen existing
CONSTRUCTION
Constuction Duration (y)     2
GEOMETRY
Road Class (Paved/Unpaved)   P



-35 -
Road Length (Iam)             15.0   Road Width (m)                21.0
One Shoulder Width (m)        3.0    Effective Number of Lanes     4.0
Rise & Fall (m/km)            50.0   Curvature (deg/km)            3.0
Superelevation (%)
SURFACE
Surface Type                  2
Thickness:     New Surfacing Layers (mm)     150
Old Surfacing Layers (mm)     0
BASE/SUBGRADE
Base Type                     1      Subgrade CBR(%)               8
STRENGTH
Structural Number             5.00   Benkelinan Beam Deflection (mm)
CONDITION
Roughness (IRI)               2.0    Construction Fault Code       0
DETERIORATION FACTORS
Roughness-age Term            1.00
Cracking Initiation           1.00   Cracking Progression          1.00
Ravelling Initiation          1.00   Rut Depth Progression   1.00
Pothole Progression           1.00   Roughness Progression   1.00
GENERATED TRAFIC None
CONGESTION
Road Type                     Four Lane
Road Use                      Commuter
Roadside Friction             1.00
Shadow prices calculation
The legal minimum net wage has been taken as shadow cost of labor. It is about a third less than the average cost of
labor for the construction of the highway. The same shadow conversion coefficients have been used to compute
construction costs and time savings.
56 Denars per USD was used as the nominal exchange rate. Economic flows are calculated in domestic currency at
domestic real price levels.
The shadow exchange rate is computed using the following formula:
SER = MER. (Ws+Wd.(l+td))
Ws = EsQs / (EsQs-EdQd)
Wd = - EdQd / (EsQs-EdQd)
where
SER   is the shadow exchange rate;
MER   is the market exchange rate;
td     is the average duty rate on imports;



-36-
Ws      is the weight of the price responsiveness of the supply of exports;
Wd      is the weight of the price responsiveness of the demand for exports;
Es      is the elasticity of supply of exports;
Ed      is the elasticity of demand for imports;
Qs      is the total quantity of exports;
Qd      is the total quantity of imports.
Diesel fuel and gasoline have valued at respectively 55 and 69 cents per gallon CIF price, converted at the shadow
exchange rate, plus an average 1 denar per gallon of local transport costs (figure given by the local refinery).
Expropriation compensation is supposed to be granted at market value in a distortion-free real estate market; i.e.,
economic expropriation costs are supposed to be equal to actual expropriation costs.



-37-
Annex 5
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(US$ of 1997)
Implementation Period
99      00      01      02
Project Costs
Investment Costs           9.2     15.0    11.7    5.8
Total
Financing Sources
IBRD                       7.0     10.0    10.0    5.0
Government                 2.2     5.0     1.7     0.8



-38 -
Annex 5
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Financial Summary for Macedonian Railwrays
Fiscal year ends December 31                                                  (In mnillions of Current Denars)
ACTUAL ESTIMATE            FORECAST
ITEMS                                         1996        1997      1998      1999    2000    2001    2002
INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS
Unit Volume ('000)                         391,000     421,000   530,000   588,000 665,000 733,000 810,000
Revenues                                     2,431        1,666     1,867     1,806   2,005   2,312   2,278
Operating revenues                            1,119       1,191     1,385     1,496    1,727    1,830   2,088
Operating income                               885        -690       523       320      420      61      178
Net income                                   -913       -1,471     -860      -578    -399       -93      24
FUNDS STATEMENT ITEMS
Internal sources                              -552       -1,131     -507      -217      -38     268      586
Borrowings                                     144          79        60          -       -        -       -
Foreign credits and budget for invest.           -          35      1,060     1,781    2,730   2,245     920
Equity investmnents
Total sources:                               -408       -1,017      613      1,564   2,692   2,513    1,506
Working capital (increase-decrease)           -300        -935      -615      -440    -100       80      120
Dept service (new credits wl 5 years grace
period from 1998 for pay off and interest)    -399        -228      -455      -284    -190    -382    -374
Total applications:                          -699       -1,163    -1,070     -724    -290    -302    -254
BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
Current assets                                 977       1,131      1,250     1,410   1,710   1,990   2,410
Less current liabilities                     4,377       5,466     6,200     6,800   7,200   7,400   7,700
Net fixed assets                             14,405      14,767    15,020    15,420   15,630   15,940   16,300
Total assets                               15,382      15,898    16,270    16,830  17,340  17,930   18,710
Debt                                          1,365      2,205     2,832      3,287   3,340   3,380   3,390
Equity                                       9,640       8,227     7,238      6,743    6,800   7,150   7,620
Total liabilities and equity                15,382     15,898    16,270    16,830  17,340  17,930  18,710
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Operating income as a % of revenues          36.4%      -41.4%     28.0%     17.7%   20.9%    2.6%      7.8%
Net income as a % of revenues               -37.6%      -88.3%    -46.1%    -32.0%   -19.9%   -4.0%     1.1%
Return on average invested capital            N/A        -4.7%      3.5%      2.1%    2.7%    0.4%      1.1%
Debt service coverage                        (1.38)      (4.96)    (1.11)    (0.76)   (0.20)    0.70     1.57
Percent of total capital expenditures
financed by internal sources                  N/A         N/A        N/A       N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A
Current ratio                                 0.22        0.21      0.20       0.21    0.24    0.27     0.31
Debtas%oftotal capitalization                12.4%       21.1%     28.1%     32.8%    32.9%   32.1%   30.8%



-39-
Annex 5
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Fund for National and Regional Road
Investment Program and Financial Plan
(US$000)
A             EXPENSES                1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003
1    Highway Construction             36949    66691    66354    56200    62200    66700
2    Regional Roads Construction       2640     2882      3170     3500      3800     4200
3    Reconstruction                    2640     2700      2800     2900      3000     3100
4    Maintenance                      42643    43000    43000    43000    43000    43000
5    Other Expenses                    3322     3300      3300     3300      3300     3300
6    Repayment of Loans               16594    16727    17076    17000    17000    17000
Total Expenses                 106786   135300   135700   125900   132300   137300
B             REVENUES
1    Fuel Tax                         43753    46000    48500    50600    53000    55600
2    Tolls                            13040    20000    25000    27000    30000    31500
3    Taxes(foreign vehicles)            525      800      1000     1200      1400      1500
4    Registration Fees                11287    12500    13000    13800    14500    15200
5    Other                              393      500       500      500       500       500
6    Loans
6.1   EIB                             20000    30000    30000    20000    20000    20000
6.2   World Bank                       5000    10000      5000
6.3   Other                             393      500       700      800       900      1000
7    Donations                        12395    15000    12000    12000    12000    12000
Total Revenues                 106786   135300   135700   125900   132300   137300



-40 -
Annex 6
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A):
Procurement for works and goods will follow the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans dated
January 1995, and revised January and August 1996 and September 1997. Procurement of consultant
services will follow the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employrnent of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 1997 and revised September 1997. Standard bidding Documents (SBD) will
be used for all Bank financed procurement.
Prior review thresholds (Table B):
(a)    Civil Works: Civil works in the project consist of: (i) one contract (the Grupcin-Tetovo East
Road) estimated to cost US$23.1 million for road improvement works by adding a two-lane
carriageway to the existing single carriageway over a 15 km road section; and (ii) two contracts
estimated to cost US$4.6 million in total for asphalt sealing under a pilot maintenance project.
Civil works are being procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Procurement
procedures, including advertising, in accordance with the Bank guidelines and the normal review
process by the Bank will be followed. For the Grupcin-Tetovo East Road, six bids, including two
from foreign firms were received on July 15, 1998 and the contract for an amount of US$19.9
million equivalent was awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder on September 23, 1998.
(b)    Goods: The proposed project will finance about US$11.5 million of goods and equipment for the
railways's communication and information systems and about US$1.2 million of goods and
equipment for road management. For goods and equipment, the components estimated to cost
more than US$200.000 would be procured through ICB. I:n comparison of bids for goods and
equipment to be procured through ICB, local manufacturers competing under ICB will receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF, or the prevaLiling custom duty applicable to non-
exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can establish to the satisfaction of the
purchaser and of the World Bank that: (i) labor, raw material, and components from within FYR
Macedonia will account for more than 30% of the EXW price of the product offered, and (ii) the
production facility in which the goods will be manufactured or assembled has been
manufacturing/assembling such goods at least since the timne of bid submission. International
Shopping Procedures (IS) would be used for equipment for road management where the cost of
ICB would clearly outweigh possible price advantages. ThLe components estimated to cost less
than US$200,000 will be procured through IS. The IS will be based on comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible source countries, in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.



-41-
(c)    Technical Assistance: Consultancy Services estimated to cost US$0.35 million, comprising of
technical assistance and training for FNRR and of technical assistance and training for the
railways, will be procured through Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB). The services of
individual specialists, estimated to cost US$0.25 million, for financial management, costing of
the railway operations and road planning will be contracted on the basis of comparison of CVs of
qualified candidates to be approached directly by the Borrower. The contract for the Grupcin-
Tetovo East Road has been awarded and the Supervision of the contract will be performed by the
FNRR. The consultancy services for design and supervision of the Pilot Maintenance Project
estimated to cost US$370,000 will be procured through Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS).
Disbursement
Disbursements for (i) civil works under contracts costing less than US$1,000,000 equivalent; and (ii) for
goods under contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided by consulting
firms under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services provided by individual
consultants under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent will be made against statements of
expenditures (SOEs). All other contracts will be fully documented. The supporting documentation will be
retained by the PCU and be made available for review by Bank supervision missions. To facilitate
payments from the loan, two Special Accounts will be established at a commercial bank in Skopje that is
acceptable to the Bank, which will be managed respectively, by FNRR and MR. The FNRR account will
have a maximum size of DEM2.7 million equivalent and the MR account will have a maximum of
DEM1.7 million equivalent, referred to in the Loan Agreement as the Authorized Allocation, but until the
pace of activity on the project justifies these balances, defined as when the total of withdrawals from the
Loan Account plus the value of any Special Commitments made against the Loan are equal to DEM6.0
million for the FNRR components and DEM4.0 million for MR components, the maximum balance in the
Special Account for FNRR shall be DEM1.3 million and the maximum balance in the Special Account
for MR shall be DEM1.3 million. Applications for replenishment of the special accounts will be
submitted on a quarterly basis, or when 1/3 of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever
occurs earlier. In addition to documentation requirement stated above, each replenishment application
will be supported by monthly bank statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the
PCU. All other applications for direct payments or Special Commitments must be for an amount not less
than 20% of the special account deposit. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
establishment of the Special Accounts from the Borrower. Retroactive financing in an amount not
exceeding US$3.2 million would be provided for expenditure incurred during the twelve-month period
prior to the estimated date of Loan Signature, i.e, February 18, 1999.



-42 -
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                 Total Cost
ICB       NCB        Other      N.B.F      (including
contingencies)
1. Works
Upgrading of Tetovo-Grupcin road       23.1                                          23.1
section (FNRR)                     (15.0)                                         (15.0)
Pilot Maintenance Project (FNRR)       4.6                                            4.6
(3.0)                                         (3.0)
2. Goods
Equipment for road management          1.0                   0.2                      1.2
(FNRR)                                (1.0)                 (0.2)                    (1.2)
Computer system (MR)                   4.0                                            4.0
(4.0)                                         (4.0)
Communication equipment                1.5                                            1.5
(CTC system for MR)                   (1.5)                                          (1.5)
Dispatching radio system (MR)          6.0                                            6.0
(6.0)                                         (6.0)
3. Services
TA for FNRR                                                  0.2                      0.2
(0.2)                   (0.2)
TA for MR                                                    0.4                      0.4
(0.4)                   (0.4)
Design and supervision of Pilot                              0.4                      0.4
Maintenance Project (FNRR)                                  (0.4)                    (0.4)
Total                                  40.2                  1.2                     41.49
(30-5)                (1.2)                   (31.7)
9      The total amounts to be procured differ from the amounts provided for project cost estimates, as the latter
include a front-end Fee (1% of Loan Total).



-43 -
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                       Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                (including
Expenditure Category                                                             contingencies)
QCBS   QBS   SFB    LCS    CQ          Other    N.B.F._
A. Finns                 0.4 10         0.35                                          0.75
(0.4)          (0.35)                                       (0.75)
B. Individuals                                                  0.2511                0.25
(0.25)               (0.25)
Total                                                                                 1.0
(1.0)
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
10     This will include the supervision of the Pilot Maintenance Project (US$0.4 million), as well as training 3-4
individuals from FNRR in courses held abroad (US$0.15 million) and training for the Railway (IJS$0.2 million).
Most probably, it will be under arrangement with a US and/or Western European agency, institute, university, etc.
11     The US$0.25 million for individuals are five contracts: a Road User Charge Study (US$0.05 million), and
four individual rail specialist consultant (US$0.05 million each).



.44.
Annex 6, Table Bl: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Expenditure                Contract Value           Procurement    Prior Review / Estimated
Category                   (Threshold)               Medhod      Total Value Subject to Prior
Review
1. Works
*  Tetovo-Grupcin                 >1,000,000                 ICB         >1 million/27.7 million
Road
*  Pilot maintenance
Civil works
2. Goods:
*  Equipment for road
management                     >200,000                  ICB        >200,000/US$12.5 million
*  Computer system for
MR
X  Communication
equipment (CTC
system) &
Dispatching radio
system for MR
*  Equipment for                   <200,000               1 Shopping             None
FNRR
3. Consulting Services
*  TA & TR for FNRR                 Firms                 QCBS/SFB      >100,000/US$0.75million
and MR
*  Pilot project
design/supervision
Financial Management,             Individuals              section V            >50,000
Costing Railway
Operations,
Road User changes study
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:            US$38.45million



-45 -
Annex-6 Table B2
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
Both the NRRF and the MR have many years of experience in implementing Bank projects for the Former
Yugoslav Republic. They have a proven record of satisfactory procurementfor Works, Goods and Services
Country Procurement Assessment Report has not been prepared for   Are the bidding documents for the
Macedonia
Country Procurement Strategy Paper is not being prepared for  procurement actions for the first
Macedonia                                                  year ready by negotiations:
Yes
TRAINING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated Date of  Date ofpublication of  Indicate if there is  Domestic    Domestic
Project Launch    General Procurement   procurement subject to   Preference   Preference for
Workshop:         Notice:              mandatory SPN in       for Goods:   Works, if
Development Business:               applicable:
April, 1999       May 31, 1998          Yes                    Yes          No
Retroactive Financing: Yes                                     Advance Procurement.
Explain: For Civil Works of Grupcin-Tetovo East Road           See Retroactive Financing
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The NRRF and MR will oversee all procurement activities under the project and will ensure procurement is
done in accordance with World Bank procedures.
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
All Procurement to be done in accordance with IBRD guidelines.
SECTION 4: PROCUREMENT STAFF'ING
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement in
the Project:
Name: Els Hinderdael Extension: 33306
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: To be determined.



Annex 6 (Table B-3)
FYR Macedonia Transport Sector Project - Procurement Plani
1.          2.        3.          4.           5.                                                           6. Estimated dates
Description    Type    No. of      Estimated    Procurement       Pre-qualification        Bid Documents                       Bid                      Contract        Contract
Contracts     cost        method                                     Finalization                                                 Signing       Completion
US$mn
Improvements to   CW         I      23.1        ICB             No                        I I Draft to Bank     1. Invitation                            Sept. 23, 98   March 23, 2000
Tetovo-Grupein                                                                             May 25, 1998           GPN/SPN May 31, 1998
Road                                                                                      Bank No Objection     2. Opening July 15, 1998
June 9,1998         3. Evaluation and Recommendation
Pilot            CW          2      4.6          ICB                                                              July 27, 1998
Maintenance
project                                                         I. Invitation              II Draft to Bank     1. Send Bids to qualified bidders
GPN May 1, 98            Dec. 15,99             March 15, 2000
SPN Dec. 1, 99          Bank No Objection     2. Evaluation and Recommendation
2. Opening Feb. 2000       Feb. 15, 2000          June 1, 2000
3. Eval.&Recom. Mar. 2000
Equipment for    G           1      1.0         ICB             No                        Draft to Bank Apr. 99   1. Invitation                          Dec., 99      August, 2000
road management                                                                           Bank No Objection       OPN June, 99
June 1, 99             SPN July 15, 99
2. Opening Sept. 15,99
3. Eval. & Recom. November 15, 99
G           1      0.2         IS             No
Computer System   G          1      4.0          ICB            No                         Draft to Bank Apr. 99   1. Invitation                         Dec., 99      August, 2000
Bank No Objection      GPN June, 99
June 1, 99             SPN July 15, 99
2. Opening Sept. 15,99
3. Eval. & Recom. November 15, 99
Communication
Equipment
(CTC for MR)     G           1       1.5         ICB            No                         Draft to Bank Feb. 99   1. Invitation                         Sept 1, 99    June, 2000
Bank No Objection      GPN I May, 98
April 1, 99             SPN April 15, 99
2. Opening June 15,99
3. Eval. & Recom. August 15, 99
Dispatching radio  G         1      6.0          ICB            No                        Draft to Bank Apr. 99   1. Invitation                          Dec., 99      August, 2000
system for MR                                                                              Bank No Objection      GPN June, 99
June 1, 99             SPN July 15, 99
2. Opening Sept. 15,99
3. Eval. & Recom. November 15, 99
TR for FNRR      CS          1      0.15         SFB            Update GPN/SPN June 1, 99  June 1, 1999         RFP sent to shortlisted firms August I, 99  Dec. 15, 99    Dec. 15, 2000
Opening tech. proposals September 1, 99
Opening financial proposals November I, 99
Design/Spn.      CS          1      0.4          QCBS           Update GPN June 1, 1999    March I, 1999        RFP sent to shortlisted firms May 1, 99  Sept. 15, 99   Sept. 15, 2001
Pilot Maint.:...,.                                              SPN May 1, 1999                                 Opening tech. proposals June 1,99
Opening financial proposals August t, 99
TRforMR          CS          1       0.2         SFB            GPN June 1,1999            June 1,1999          RFP sentto shortlisted firms August 1,99  Dec. 15,99    Dcc.15,2000
Opening tech. proposals September I, 99
Opening financial proposals November 1, 99
Financial        CS          5      0.25         Individuals                               TOR by April 15,99    Invite CVs from shortlisted individuals  July 15,99    Dec., 2001
Management,                                      Section V                                                       May 1, 1999
Costing Railway                                                                                                 Evaluation and Recommendation
Operations, Road                                                                                                 June 30, 1999
User Charges
Total:   41.9
CW=Civil Works, G=Goods, CS=Consultancy Services, QCBS=Quality and Cost Based Selection, IS=Intemational Shopping, TA=Technical Assistance, TR=Training



-47 -
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        US$ Millions          Financing Percentage
Roads
Civil works                        15.61       65%
Equipment                           1.16       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs)
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant services, training, and  0.61       100%
studies
Unallocated                         2.66
Sub-Total Roads                    20.05
Railways
Equipment                          10.36        100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs)
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant services, training, and  0.24        100%
studies
Unallocated                         1.04
Sub-Total Railways                 11.64
Other
Front-End Fee (1% of Loan amount)   0.32       Amount due under section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
Total                              32.00



-48 -
Annex 7
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Project Processing lBudget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                           Plarned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$203,300            US$203,300
B. Project Schedule                                  Plarned                Actual
(At final PFCD stage)
US$220,000            US$220,000
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          19 months              25 months
First Bank mission (identification)                03/31/1997             03/31/1997
Appraisal mission departure                        01/30/1998             04/20/1998
Negotiations                                       05/30/1998             11/05/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       10/31/1998            05/09/1999
Prepared by: National and Regional Road Fund, and Macedonian Railways
Preparation assistance: None.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                               Speciaty
Mirtha Pokorny                   Program Team Leader
William Matthey                  Highway Engineer
Lou Thompson                     Railway Advisor
Spyros Margetis                  Environmenltal Specialist
Francois Boulanger               Consultant
Els Hinderdael                   Procurement: Specialist
Joe Kulenovic                    Consultant



-49.
Annex 8
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Documents In the Project Fle*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Evaluation of the Grupcin-Tetovo Road
C. Other
* Feasibility Study of the Road M-4 - Grupcin-Tetovo, 1996 (prepared by Granit Company and
the Traffic Faculty Institute of Belgrade).
* Environmental Assessment Report of the improvement of the Grupcin-Tetovo Road (Granit).
- Economic and Financial Analysis in support of a Restructuring Program for Macedonian
Railways (V. Alalouf)- December, 1997.
* Restructuring, Economic, and Technical Rehabilitation of Macedonian Railways (Wilbur Smith
Associates)- December, 1997.
*Including electronic files.



- 50 -
Annex 9
FYR Macedonia
Transport Sector Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Loanl           Project                                          Amount in millions    Approval.  Signed   Effective   Closing
Credit Financier   ID           Project Name        Currency Principal Undisb Disbur   Date          Date       Date      Date
3868S  IBRD    8407  TRANSIT FACILITATION             USD           24     1.13  22.87  18-Apr-95   8-Jun-95  29-Jun-95  30-Jun-99
40150  lBRD    43447  PRIVATE SECTOR DVPMT    DEM                    18    l.97  16.03 16-May-96 24-Sep-96 20-Dec-96  30-Jun-99
41530  IBRD    38393  SAL I                           DEM          44.4    22.2   22.2  6-May-97 12-May-97  25-Jun-97 31-Dec-98
42400  IBRD    34609  PSD 11                          DEM           45   33.48   11.52  30-Oct-97 19-Dec-97  10-Feb-98 31-Dec-01
42410  IBRD    38399  IRRIGATION REHAB.               DEM          13.5       0      0  4-Nov-97 19-Dec-97 29-Apr-98 30-Sep-04
42840  IBRD    42399  POWER                           DEM          61.5    60.5       1  17-Feb-98 20-May-98  27-Jul-98  30-Jun-05
27220   IDA    38092  SOCIAL REFORM                   XDR            9     1.46   7.54 16-May-95  27-Jun-95  18-Jul-95 30-Sep-99
28630   IDA      10001  PRIV. FARMER SUPPORT          XDR           5.4    4.03    1.37 16-May-96 24-Sep-96 20-Dec-96   1-Oct-00
28890   IDA    36089  HEALTH SECTOR TRANS.    XDR                  11.8   10.84   0.96  20-Jun-96 24-Sep-96 23-Dec-96 31 -Mar-00
29490   IDA    38393  SAL I                           XDR          20.6     4.1   16.5  6-May-97 12-May-97  25-Jun-97 31-Dec-98
29820   IDA    38391  EDUCATION REHAB.                XDR           3.6    1.55   2.05   2-Sep-97  6-Oct-97  16-Oct-97 31-Dec-99
30010   IDA    38399  IRRIGATION REHAB.               XDR           3.7    3.51    0.19  4-Nov-97 19-Dec-97 29-Apr-98 30-Sep-04
31130   IDA    38392  SOCIAL SECTORS ADJ.             XDR          21.6    10.8   10.8   9-Jul-98  13-Jul-98 21-Aug-98  30-Jun-99
31160   IDA    58056  PENSION REF. T.A.               XDR          0.75    0.68   0.07    9-Jul-98  13-Jul-98 21-Aug-98 31-Mar-01



-51 -
Annex 10
Transport Sector Project
FYR MACEDONIA, AT A GLANCE
:Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL:                            Macedonla,   Central  midde-:
FYR       Asia  income       Development diamond*
1997
Population. mid-year (millions)                        2.0       476     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   tS090::.  2,320     1,230
GNP Atlas method, US$ billions)                        22      1,1068    2,818
Average annual growlth 1991-97
Population (%)                                         0.7       0.2       1.2
Laborfoe f(x                                           1.2       0.5       1.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
-Most recent estimate (tatest year avldable, 1991-9)                                capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populatfon belAw .naUlaaptieti*e)d
Urban population (% of totl ppulation)                 61         67        42
Lfe expectancy at birth (year -                        72         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bEfhs)                16         25        36
Child malnutrition (.% of children under 5)             ..        .-        .,               Access to safe water
Access to safwater (%of population)                     ..                  84
Illiteracy(%.ofpopulation age 5+)    :c *-n 19F.
Grossprinarywerollrent (%ofschool-agepopul/n)          89         92       111              Macedoia,FYR
Male                                                 90         ..       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               87         ..       113    _
KEY ECONOMIC RAllOS ahd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billions) at                          .. eS.9                     3.3
Gross domes&investmenriDP                      ..       ..      19.2      19.5
Expofts of goods and servicesGP                ..     ;..   . 33.0        40.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                :    . v       *       7.3       3.5
Gross:national savings/GOP                 -*                   11.9      11.2
Current account balancelGOP                    ;.       ..      -7.3      -8.3     Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                -          .        ..      1.6       1.9                                 Investment
Total debtYGWP                                  .3. ..                    38.0     Savings
Total debt sericeexports                       ..       ..      10.4       8A
Present value of debf/GDP                       .        .      35.5
Present value of debtlexports                  ..       ..    100.8
Indebtedness
197646  i987-        1998:     1997   198402
(average amnual growth)
GDP                                   ..       ..      0.8       1.S       4.6               Macedonia, FYR
GNP per capita                         .       ..      .1        0.6       3.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and :services        ,.       ..    -1,4        6,0       5.                                   5. 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         100
Agriculture b/                                 ..       ..      13.1      13.7
Industry bl                                    ..       ..      30.8      30.4
Manufacturing                                ..       ..         ..        ..
Services b/                                    ..       ..      56.2      55.9                              95 9s      97
Private consumption                            ..       ..      80.5      84.6    -100-
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..      12.3      12.0                   GDI        O  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      45.0      56.0
(average annual growth)                  197646  1987-97        1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..       2.4       7.1    25
Industry                                       ..       ..       2.2       0.6    15
Manufacturing                                ..       ..         ..        ..    10
Services                                       ..       ..      -1.0       1.5      o
Private consumption                            ..       ..        ..       6.7    05             93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption                            ..       ..      -1.1   -10 -
Gross domestic investment                      ..       ..      -4.3       2.7   -15
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..       3.2      11.2                  Exports     *-Imports
Gross national product                         ..       ..       0.9       1.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
"The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-52..
Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           2,000
Consumer prices                                 ..        ..       2.5       1.5    1,500
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       ..        1.9       4.0    1,00
Government finance                                                                    so
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o 0
Current revenue                                 ..        .       40.6      38.9              92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                          ..        ..       1.9       1.0             -     GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -0.4      -0.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986       1996     1997       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..    1,147      1,201     2,000
Raw materials                                  ..       ..       418       477
Food                                           ..       ..        81        67     1,500
Manufactures                                   ..       ..       545       542
Total imports (cif)                             ..        ..     1,615     1,730
Food                                           .         .       175       154
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..       131       178      50D
Capital goods                                  .         ..      218       183        c
91  92  93   94  95   96  97
Export price index (1996=100)                    ..       .        100       97
Import price index (1996=100)                   ..        ..       100       95                a Exports      I Imports
Terms of trade (1996=100)                        ..       ..       100       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%/6)
(us$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..        ..     1,301     1,329      2 T
Imports of goods and services                -     41,773                  1,862      0 l
Resource balance                                 ..       .        472     -533      *2       -m          9
Net income                                                         -30       -33        A
Net current transfers                           ..        ..       213      291       8  
Current account balance                         ..        ..      -289     -275    0-10
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..        270      283      *12
Changes in net reserves                         ..        ..        19        -8    -14i
Memo: ._
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..        ..       267      280
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$) c                ..       ..      39.9      49.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..     1,390     1,265
IBRD                                                             28        91                  G: 134    A: 91
IDA                                                              125      146:14                          O
Total debt service                                       4..       14        120                                  B: 146
IBRD                                           .        .         21       1 1
IDA                                                                     1   1         F 6                            :9
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                .                  52         8
Official creditors                            ..        ..        58        74
Private creditors                             ..                  ..         0                                   D: 185
Foreign direct investment                      ..      ..         12       16
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..          0         2                 E: 349
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       ..         37       102     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..         46       48      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           ..        ..        15         5     c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..       ..        31       43
Interest payments                             ..       ..          6        6
Net transfers                                 ..       ..         25       37
Development Economics                                                                                                    1/7/99
a/ Calculated using market exchange rate; b/ Share of GDP at factor cost; c/ Average exchanget rate in the foreign exchange market.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 2951 2
2O0                                 ~22 
l IKSNIA ANO\                     1              '      -I   Pozr                                                                             '                                          FORMER  YUGOSLAV
IIIR/EGOVINA\                             EDERAL               P       LC         F  YUG         SLAVIA                                                                              REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
I  J                                                               Koso"kERB  /M  N EN  R )TRANSPORT  SECTOR
0                     tabij0kO a X 4 - J \ B B U 9- A                                                                                                                          PROJECT
F \ / oPrishno VronjeO/                                                    j X gobovdolEN t  ROAD UPGRADING
7                                                                          >    B~~~~~~~riiaoboodol>~
0 OSovnLk                     I9 rvon9rad                                                                 ---.>;                                           S , tA BujganovacK   \ 9/} 0 YDimltrovk=   MOTORWAYS
I  I,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K.lni                                                                  MAJOR ROADS
Mur i / n , , \ U>oiX -                                                                                                                        S;_; < g_ 1 vECONDARY ROADS
OTHER ROADS
Niktid
-J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N BooorT  2RAILROADS
- N                                                                  BejkvRIVERS
DakoYica                                   -~~~~~Kr-snoo                                                   j    SELECTED CITIES
AN~DTOWNS
Pod                                            SKOPJE                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITALS
Cetinje                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~      ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B /-  NRIERNATIONAL
qI                                                      k/ TC et                                                             n ovo                                         2     IRPORTS
d-                                            av                                                                                                            r\                   iFupc in    ti  --PORTSENATRON 
\                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL
,,kod~r    PLao          Gurrel            K(00         \     ,                    f rilep       ,eko              Gevge                          5uch BOUNDARIES
Ti-p a by  h. W,
42'WWdBo
ut ~        Drrs              S _         Pekrah .p                                                                    R EC finis  c5  ODS
Kit.vo    0-F  A C E  !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~~Th. Wo,dd0~G~poyogoo
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 eD<-                                                               of y,E  rI C  yf
o   la  20   0  40  50   0  70  5oILrDMETEs   \W<ushje                            i            \. |                 ,-j  \                  r ~             \            -    9h    .    -'--d-
0 10 20 30 40 50MILE5  B.-I                     ,/egelija    2
Acdria tic                                                                         B.tun                                                        PilSIika                                     'I-ro
Sea                                         TIRAN
Dwb ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ooGREE CE Yiorots n ~                                                                                            10
Kavale  p                                                                  +   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Alexdndrio          ..N. 1
o   to  20   30   40  s0   60  70   8I0 KILOMETERS                                                         '                            9Sl0If 
o  iso    20      30     40      50MILES
-  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



