Report No. PID7329
Project Name                     Macedonia-Transport Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       MKPE50589
Borrower                         Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Implementing Agencies            Fund for National and Regional Roads
91000 Skopje, FYR of Macedonia
Fax: 389-91-220-535; and
Macedonian Railways
Zeleznicka 50B
P.O. Box 543
91000 Skopje, FYR of Macedonia
Fax: 389-91-411-021
Date This PID Prepared           June, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         May, 1998
Projected Board Date             November 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Since becoming independent in September 1991, the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia has, like other transition economies, experienced major
dislocations in production, employment, and social welfare. Between 1990 and
1994, real GDP fell by 35w, unemployment rose from 26t to 35w, and real wages
declined by 9t, with a corresponding decline in real consumption and living
standards. Until recently, economic management was further complicated by
financial, trade, and transit embargoes resulting from military conflict in
the region, as well as bilateral political differences.
2.      Despite such difficult circumstances, the country persevered in its
efforts to achieve a remarkably stable financial setting by 1994-95. It also
began implementing structural reforms in the socially-owned enterprise and
banking sectors, and in the provision of social transfer payments. To date,
adjustment measures in the enterprise sector have focused on restructuring 23
of the largest loss-making enterprises, and the two largest utilities (power
and railways).
3.      The main transport infrastructure of the FYR of Macedonia consists of
8,216 km of roads (of which about 4,900 km paved), a railway network of 700
km, and two international airports, at Skopje and Ohrid. The primary road
network, under the jurisdiction of the Fund for National and Regional Roads,
is 3,526 km long and handles about 75t of the country's freight traffic, while
the railways primarily handle low-value bulk commodities to and from the Greek
port of Salonika.
4.      The configuration of the transport system was influenced by the former
Yugoslavia's geopolitical considerations, which emphasized the development of
the main North-South transport corridor (namely the Trans-Yugoslav Highway),
developed with World Bank financing. Although growing in importance for
domestic traffic and as a feeder of the North-South artery, the development of



the country's other major transport corridor, the East-West one, was hampered
by the political isolation of Albania, which until 1992 prohibited transit
through its territory, and to some extent also by the administrative
difficulties of crossing Bulgaria.
5.      The country's railway network presently consists of about 700 km of
track, employing about 5,300 staff in basic services, almost 1,300 employees
less than in 1989. Those staff reductions have largely been achieved through
attrition and an early retirement scheme, and the railway company is also
privatizing non-core enterprises. Nine spin-offs of non-core activities have
so far been identified, of which two have been privatized while five are in
the process of privatization
6.      As a result of the economic dislocation and interruption in trade
patterns along the principal North-South axis, the railway freight volume
dropped from 6.5 million tons in 1990 to about 1.5 million in 1994. The
following years witnessed a partial rebound in freight volume, especially in
international traffic, due to the restoration of some interrupted trade links,
reaching 1.9 million tons in 1997. During the same period, passenger
transport also declined, from 5.0 million passenger trips in 1990 to 1.0
million in 1994, increasing to 2.0 million in 1997.
7.      In the past the railways posted significant operating losses, partly
because rail tariffs were set at well below cost recovery levels. Though
operating losses have since been reduced to about US$ 12 million in 1997,
this has been achieved at the expense of maintenance, which is clearly
unsustainable. In the medium term, the economic role of the railways should be
assessed and unprofitable lines and/or services discontinued. The Government,
as part of its economic restructuring, is planning to privatize ancillary
services and to clearly separate commercial activities from those social
services requiring direct subsidies.
Objectives
8.      The Government's objective supported by the CAS is to create a market-
based economic environment that will ensure a lasting recovery, reduce the
presently high level of unemployment, and improve the living standards of the
poorer segments of the population. The policy strategy emphasizes an active
structural reform program, supported by prudent demand-management policies to
provide a stable financial climate. The reform priorities are to accelerate
restructuring in the socially-owned enterprise sector - which is saddled with
a high cost structure and low profitability - through measures to widen the
scope of private ownership, strengthen corporate governance, and remove
barriers to adjustment, as well as to remove distortions to the trade system
that obstruct the exploitation of the country's comparative advantages. The
proposed project will facilitate the restructuring of the Macedonian Railways,
identified as one of the more troubled public enterprises, and bring about a
reduction of transport costs in the East-West export corridor, thereby
improving the international competitiveness of FYR Macedonia's products.
Project Description
9.      The proposed Project would have the following objectives:    (i) bringing
about a reduction in transport costs by improving the country's East-West road
connections; (ii) strengthening road management capabilities in the area of
- 2 -



planning, including the internalization of environmental considerations in
investment decisions; and (iii) reducing the fiscal burden imposed by the
railways, by supporting the restructuring process to commercialize operations.
10.     The proposed Project would have the following components: (i) improvement
of the Skopje-Tetovo road; (ii) the provision of equipment for upgrading the
railways' communications system, as well as the provision of spare parts for
railway rolling stock; (ii) technical assistance and training for road
management; and (iii) technical assistance and training for restructuring
railway operations. The total project cost, including contingencies, is
expected to be US$72.0 million, of which US$30.0 million would be financed by
IBRD. The European Investment Bank will co-finance the proposed Project's
road improvement component.
Implementation
11.     The Fund for National and Regional Roads, which is an experienced
Borrower and has demonstrated its capacity for the implementation of Bank-
financed projects, will be responsible for the execution of the road
components of the project. The Macedonian Railways, which have also been
recipients of Bank loans in the past, will be responsible for the railway
restructuring component. The Ministries of Transport and Finance will be co-
signatories of agreements on payments of Public Sector Obligations to the
railways that would be included in the proposed Project.
Sustainability
12.     The sustainability of the road improvement component is strongly linked
to projected demand, as well as to maintenance efforts to preserve the planned
investments. Existing traffic is already causing substantial levels of
congestion, thus making the project viable even with very conservative growth
projections. The FYR of Macedonia also has a good record of road maintenance.
The sustainability of the railway component will largely depend on the degree
of ownership that the Government and the railways gain of the project. During
project preparation, the focus has been on supporting Macedonian Railways'
management in formulating an implementable action plan. A Bank-sponsored
Roundtable, with representatives from other European Railways and the EU
Transport Commission, was held in Skopje in early July 1997. The Roundtable
demonstrated the commitment of the Railways and the Government to align
themselves with the directives of the EU Transport Commission, thus
contributing to the proposed Project's sustainability.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
13.     The proposed Project would build on the experience of two previous
related Bank operations in the FYR of Macedonia: (i) The Transit Facilitation
Project, which revealed that the Fund for National and Regional Roads is an
efficient and effective agency, very experienced in project implementation and
with an excellent track record. Their most pressing need is to upgrade their
skills and ability in carrying out planning and evaluation responsibilities
that used to be done at the Federal level in Belgrade; and (b) The Financial
and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan and Credit (FESAC), which aimed at
short-term efforts to reduce the railways' fiscal burden and focused on
increasing tariffs and reducing staff levels. The proposed project would aim
to ensure the long-term financial viability of the railways, emphasizing
-3 -



structural measures to change the railway culture from a production-oriented
one to a client-oriented operation. The project will therefore focus on
supporting a process of change that will combine downsizing efforts with
structural changes, thus paving the way for future private sector
participation.
Poverty Category
14.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
15.     The proposed Project has been rated Environmental Category B. The
rationale for this rating is based on the fact that the civil works on the
Skopje-Tetovo road are mostly confined to improvements within existing rights
of way. There will be no population resettlement nor would the project affect
any known archaeological sites. A full Environmental Analysis will be
completed by the time of project appraisal.
Program Objective Categories
16.     The project would essentially contribute to the Bank's environmentally
sustainable development objective through improvements in the efficiency of
the road and rail transport subsectors. By upgrading the skills and ability of
the Fund for National and Regional Roads to carry out planning and evaluation
responsibilities, the Project would also contribute to the economic management
development objective.
Project Benefits
17.     The project's main direct benefits will be (i) a reduction in road
transport costs through the improvement of the main road arteries; and (ii)
resource savings resulting from the restructuring of the railways.
Project Risks
18.     The proposed road component of the project is practically risk-free with
respect to the Government's commitment. The Borrower attaches a very high
priority to the upgrading of the Skopje-Tetovo Road
Contact Points:
Mirtha Pokorny, ECSIN
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Tel. (202) 473-8079
Fax (202) 522-1165
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
- 4 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 12, 1999.
- 5 -



