                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 31377

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (SCL-44390)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 27 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                      FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                                        FOR A

                               TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT




                                     April 19, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective December, 2004)

                   Currency Unit = Denar
                         1 Denar = US$ 0.021
                           US$ 1 = 48.50 Denar
                            US$ 1 = 0.745 Euro

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1    December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMS          Bridge Management System
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA          Europe and Central Asia
EIB          European Development Bank
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
EU           European Union
FNRR         Fund for National and Regional Roads
GoM          Government of the FYR of Macedonia
GTZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HDM          Highway Design Model
IT           Information Technology
MR           Macedonian Railways
NPV          Net Present Value
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PHARE        European Union Technical Assistance Program for the Central and
             Eastern European Countries
PMS          Pavement Management Systems
PSO          Public Service Obligations
PSR          Project Status Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RUC          Road User Charges
SOE          State Owned Enterprise
TA           Technical Assistance
TEN          Trans-European Network
USTDA        United States Trade Development Agency




                  Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
               Country Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
        Sector Manager/Director:     Motoo Konishi/Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Olivier Le Ber, ECSIE

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                             TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. FNRR and MR contributions                                               24
MAP IBRD No.29512

Project ID: P050589                                                  Project Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Team Leader: Olivier Le Ber                                          TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 19, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT                                 L/C/TF Number: SCL-44390
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (62%); Railways (38%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (S); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/06/1997                                     Effective: 05/09/1999                07/16/1999
     Appraisal: 11/02/1998                                         MTR: 12/01/2000                  01/30/2002
      Approval: 02/09/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FYR MACEDONIA/FYR MACEDONIA FUND FOR NAT'L & REG'L ROADS
                                           & RAILWAYS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Ajay Chibber
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Olivier Le Ber                                 Mirtha Pokorny
ICR Primary Author:             Antti Talvitie


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The (sole) Project Development Objective is to improve the efficiency of the road and railway systems.
This objective was appropriate because the country's economic situation was dire. After the breakup of the
of Yugoslavia, each of the former members were allocated their debt to the Bank and had to clear their
arrears before becoming again eligible for credit. A Bank adjustment loan followed immediately after a
bridge loan, which got the country off the arrears. The adjustment loan dealt, among other things, with the
reform of the three largest money losing State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), one of them the railways. It had
a conditionality on redundancies and privatization of non-core activities. Very little was indeed
accomplished. Soon thereafter, the country lost its North-South connections (Greece's blockade plus the
UN sanctions to Serbia). The Government of the FYR of Macedonia (GoM) decided that they needed to
improve the very strategic East-West connections by building the missing railway link with Bulgaria.
However, it was clear - and a GTZ study supported that position - that that investment was not
economically viable. Nevertheless, the GoM started to work on the railway link. At the same time, the
demands to sustain the money losing SOEs disabled the Government to maintain its roads, which increased
vehicle operating costs. In short, the GoM could not afford the railways and the allocation of resources in
the transport sector was dysfunctional. The development objective was, thus, both appropriate and central
to both the road and railway systems.

The road sector funding had declined after independence because of many other demands placed on the
revenues. As a consequence, there was strain on the maintenance budget to keep the roads in appropriate
condition. There also were segments in the road network that required capacity expansion because of traffic
growth. Costs to both the road users and the Government needed to be reduced. The project approached
this appropriately by investing on a road section that merited capacity expansion, introduced new
cost-effective maintenance technologies, and provided technical assistance to improve pricing of road user
services and data systems to target maintenance actions right. Concurrently, the European Development
Bank (EIB) financed the Motorway segment (Skopje - Grupcin) adjoining the Bank financed segment.

The need for improving efficiency was indeed critical at the Railways. The demand had declined;
Macedonian Railways (MR) was among the most loss-making SOEs in the country; railway maintenance
was planned and undertaken in an old-fashioned way (time-based instead of use-based); there was an
excess of labor (though not an excess of labor costs); the railways had a very large international debt; and,
the Government needed to take a fresh start in managing its railways to improve performance. A Railway
Restructuring Action Plan was drawn up: train the managers, develop business and financing plans,
improve accounting and establish cost and profit centers, begin operating the railway services commercially
and market them, and include passenger services in the national budget as a public service contract. The
implementation of this action plan was discussed in 1997-98 with the Bank. It was decided to acquire
information technology (IT) for the railways and begin restructuring the railways with technical assistance
support from the project (support to the infrastructure was not considered because of the disagreement
between the Bank and the GoM on the link to Bulgaria). The IT component had three parts: a new
computer system to replace an aging system, which was not expected to go through the "Y2000 glitch", a
new train dispatching system, and (completion of) the railway signaling upgrade. MR also had a new,
USTDA donated fiber-optic cable available, and therefore the IT systems made complementary sense.
Furthermore, the IT component was requested by the railway management and reviewed by experts.
Working affirmatively with the MR management was thought to be a necessary condition for railway
restructuring, which the project considered essential, in spite of resistance and difficulty of the task.
Technical assistance consultancies were supported and undertaken to support the railway restructuring
action plan to begin the transformation of MR to progressively meet the relevant European Union (EU)



                                                    - 2 -

Directives. According to a consultant report, the MR infrastructure was in reasonably good shape, but a
new approach to maintenance - primarily an institutional issue - was needed as well as improvements at
specific locations to eliminate speed restrictions. Technical assistance to MR in the latter part of the project
was very successful and helped prepare a new project.

In retrospect, as any investment should aim at reducing costs, one might raise questions about the large IT
component while not focusing on the shortcomings of the infrastructure and its maintenance at the outset -
as was done after the restructuring. As it turned out, the IT component was not implemented - also, change
in management and political power has something to do with the decision - but its relevance, in a different
form, is evident today. More importantly, during procurement, questions about the economic rationale of
the IT component, the complexity of its specifications, cost, and the influence of the Ministry of Finance
led to the decision not to implement it. Many other nonquantifiable issues also influenced the decision such
as how MR should approach its international traffic and compatibility with and relations to neighboring
railways; the effect of IT on MR organization and management; and on labor redundancies among them.
These issues were too complicated and politically charged to be resolved during this project and a decision
was reached to restructure the project after a definite Government commitment for change. However,
tangible progress was made already during this project (for example, the preparation of the new Railway
Law, approved by the Government in January 2005 and closure in 2004 of some unprofitable railway
passenger services).

The Development Objective of the project was appropriate, before and after restructuring, and given the
knowledge at the time of preparation. The Project Design was fit for purpose. There is one further event
(actually events) that has a bearing on assessing the development objective of the project: the crises of 1999
and 2000-2001. In 1999 the country received a large number refugees as a result of the Kosovo crisis, and
between September 2000 and early 2002 there was the the "Macedonian crisis" because of insurgency and
civil strife in northern part of the country. Both of these, besides taking place in the road project area,
diverted the attention and focus of the Government and also affected its views on how to achieve the
objectives of the project. During the crises the Bank could not field supervision missions; project
supervision was handled from the Resident Mission.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Bank and the Government dealt quickly and firmly with effects of the crises and the recommendations
of the supervision reviews, and restructured the Project in 2002 without changing the project objective, but
with a substantial reallocation of the loan proceeds and extension by 27 months. At the time of project
restructuring, the results of the technical assistance studies on railway restructuring were available. The
Government realized that MR was, in essence, bankrupt and change was inevitable. Realizing that it
needed time to effect profound changes at the Railways, many of which have political dimensions, GoM
asked for reallocation of the loan proceeds. Reallocation was also needed because of equipment grants
from donors. As shown below in detail, there was a large reallocation to the road sector to pay for a
(twofold) increase in the bitumen price and to expand the pilot maintenance program to include a greater
variety of technologies, including on the regional roads. The Railway's IT component was postponed to a
later time and the remaining money used to buy goods to improve the railway infrastructure.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had seven components, five for the Fund for the National and Regional Roads (FNRR), and
two for the Macedonian Railways (MR):

1.       Improvement of Tetovo-Grupcin Road                                 US$23,100,000
2.       Pilot Maintenance Project                                          US$4,600,000
3.       Design and Supervision of the Pilot Maintenance Project            US$400,000



                                                     - 3 -

4.       Technical Assistance and Training for FNRR                         US$200,000
5.       Equipment for the FNRR                                             US$1,200,000
6.       Equipment for MR                                                   US$11,500,000
7.       Technical Assistance and Training for MR                           US$400,000

3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured in the January 2002 mid-term review of the project which had been delayed
due to the 2001 Macedonian crisis. The project funds were reallocated (with minor readjustments later) as
shown below. At the same time the project received a 23 month extension to May 31, 2004, and later
another extension till September 30, 2004 to complete the Pilot Maintenance project.

1.       Improvement of Tetovo-Grupcin Road                                 US$25,000,000
2.-3.    Pilot Maintenance Project, including training and supervision      US$12,000,000
4.       Technical Assistance and Training for FNRR                         US$200,000
5.       Equipment for FNRR                                                 US$1,200,000
6.       Equipment for MR                                                   US$1,500,000
7.       Technical Assistance and Training for MR                           US$400,000

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review at project entry. Judging retrospectively at the ICR
stage, the project's Quality at Entry was not satisfactory. Given the benefit of hindsight, Quality at Entry
was fully satisfactory for the Roads component. This was because the Fund for National and Regional
Roads (FNRR) had long been a client organization and well-experienced in managing construction and
maintenance. For the road subsector, the main recipient of the loan funds, the project focused on the most
important priorities: completing the improvement the strategic East-West road corridor which has started in
the previous project and introducing in the Fund for National and Regional Roads (FNRR) a pilot project
to show to reluctant local engineers the benefits of state of the art technologies to substantially reduce the
cost of road maintenance. The matter was different at MR. In the case of the railways, previous Bank
attempts to reduce their fiscal burden through strong conditionality in fast disbursing operations proved to
be unsuccessful. The project was conceived as a vehicle for continuous dialogue and support to MR to
undertake its restructuring. The agreed Action Plans were the result of several workshops including
representatives of several EU railways, thus incorporating the experiences of the region in railway reform.
However, the pace of the reform progress in project implementation was below expectations, but the project
nevertheless provided the basis for a productive Bank-railways dialogue conducive to the reforms now
expected to be completed under the follow-on project. Indeed the Government and the Railways were
intellectually but not emotionally prepared to major changes. The demand had dropped 70 percent, the
direction and the type of shipped commodities underwent change, and MR's operating environment had
dramatically changed from being a part of a large railway to a very small but internationally interdependent
railway, which, objectively speaking, needed to be restructured in a non-incremental way. Although the
Quality at Entry is satisfactory for the Road component, because of the modification required during the
implementation of the railways component, the overall rating is considered unsatifactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objective of the project, to improve the efficiency of the road and railway systems, was achieved;
although, not exactly as it was planned at appraisal. While retaining the project objective, the project was
restructured in early 2002. Funds were reallocated from the Railway IT system to railway infrastructure
and to expanding the pilot road maintenance component. Both of these were well-reasoned and effective



                                                     - 4 -

interventions in the project circumstances changed by the Kosovo/FYR of Macedonia crises, political
priorities, more accurate perception about the state of the railway, and the capacity of FNRR to absorb and
utilize meaningfully the reallocated monies.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The Road Sector and FNRR
1. Improvement of Tetovo-Grupcin Road. This component is rated satisfactory. FNRR expanded to
Trans-European Network (TEN) motorway standard the most heavily traveled 15 km segment from Tetovo
to Grupcin. Access roads and pedestrian facilities were appropriately modified as part of the improvement.
The work was undertaken in difficult conditions with good quality.

2-3. Pilot Maintenance Project, including training and supervision.               This component is rated
satisfactory. The pilot road maintenance activity was expanded after restructuring to cover 110 km of both
national and secondary roads.          The new technologies transferred and taken into use included,
microsurfacing, surface treatment, and slurry seals. These are all more cost-effective than overlays and
applicable in a wide variety of circumstances.

4. Technical assistance and training for FNRR. This component is (marginally) satisfactory. This
rating, which is different from the last Project Status Report (PSR), requires justification. The pilot
maintenance project not only transferred technologies, but also the concept of using competitive tendering
for selecting maintenance contractors. Competitive tendering of maintenance is proven to be one of the
most effective means to lower the costs of maintenance without lowering quality; however, it requires
changes in maintenance planning, quality assurance, and, obviously, procurement. These kind of
institutional changes are being studied under a new European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) grant. The road user charge study was also deferred to be done as part of an EBRD grant
providing technical assistance to transform FNRR to a different type organization. Besides, two road user
charge studies had recently been completed under the European Union Technical Assistance Program for
the Central and Eastern European Countries (PHARE) funding. Finally, the acquisition of a Bridge
Management System (BMS) was not successful. FNRR determined that the bridge inspection system was
sufficient to determine priorities for bridge maintenance, although the lack of sufficiently trained personnel
in FNRR may be an equally important reason for not implementing this sub-component. While the
technical assistance in road maintenance was successful and FNRR owned the concept of maintenance by
(competitive) contracting, it does not appear to have the managerial freedom to implement it on full scale;
the Government owned company (MacedonijaPat) is a single source supplier and enjoys political clout.
While there is certain rationale to use the bridge inspection system to prioritize bridge works in a small
network, FNRR could have taken steps to train its bridge professionals to employ a BMS, even a simple
one. These two reasons weigh in to reduce a fully satisfactory rating.

5. Equipment for FNRR. This component is rated satisfactory. The equipment list was changed from that
planned at appraisal. A donor United States Trade Development Agency (USTDA) provided a road
profilometer and roughness measuring equipment; traffic counters and weigh scales were acquired to
improve the road data bank and the accuracy of the Pavement Management Systems (PMS).

In sum, the outputs of the components were achieved, although the technical assistance and training to
FNRR was started late and may have fallen short of what was planned. The activities and objectives of
other lenders apparently affected the timing and priorities for technical assistance. However, the TA and
training component supported the achievement of the Development Objective of the project and the other
components were completed as planned.




                                                     - 5 -

The Railways and MR
6. Equipment for Railways. This component is rated satisfactory. MR track had speed restrictions at a few
locations and had very old locomotives which have not been adequately maintained. Without serviceable
infrastructure and tractive power there can be no railway service. Project restructuring transferred monies
to improving infrastructure (rails, sleepers and track maintenance) at critical locations, and to the
rehabilitation of Diesel Motor Units.

7. Technical Assistance and Training for MR. This component is rated highly satisfactory. Several
consultancies were completed during the course of the project and the GoM now realizes the need for
restructuring and is committed to follow it through. The studies highlighted restructuring options from
different perspectives for MR to adjust to the new traffic demand and country environment: financial
separation of infrastructure and train services; tariff setting and costing of railway services; dealing with
labor redundancies; infrastructure and rolling stock improvements; and the private sector role to name the
most important. As a result of the studies, there is now a consensus and commitment about the
restructuring of MR for which the new railway law approved by GoM in January 2005 provides the legal
framework. The implementation of the chosen restructuring model, including labor retrenchment, is the
objective of a new Bank-financed railway project which is now in an advanced preparation stage (Board
presentation expected in late May 2005).

The railways component proved to be much more difficult than anticipated. It was not simply a matter of
implementing the EU directive, but - as also in developed European countries - consensus building,
development of technical capabilities, infrastructure improvement, ensuring interoperability, and
management capacity building. Much of this was accomplished in the project in a very satisfactory manner
and beyond what was expected at appraisal.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) estimates a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$8.5 million and ERR
of 16%. An ex-post economic appraisal used slightly different method (HDM-4 instead of HDM-3) and
data in the economic analysis. Actual traffic numbers were used for the early years and actual cost stream
in 2000 and 2003, and there were differences in the economic costs of the inputs. The PAD also considered
the effects of tolling and congestion. In the re-evaluation, congestion was accounted for by means of
volume-delay curves and tolling was embedded in the experienced (tolled) traffic volumes, which were
projected to the future. According to the ex-post calculation the NPV is US$17 million and Economic Rate
of Return (ERR) of 18% (using todays exchange rates).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated ex-post for the Tetovo-Grupcin road. The calculation in the
PAD shows a financial return from the road tolls to have an NPV of US$6.5 million over the 20 year life of
the project. This number is still valid as the traffic anticipated after the opening of the road has been
correctly forecast. No financial rate of return is possible to calculate for the railway component.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact that has taken place by today is rated as modest. However, the
project's future institutional impact is likely to be much greater. In the road sector, new maintenance
technologies and maintenance by contract will encourage and push for substantial institutional changes.
There is an understanding at FNRR and at the Ministry of the likely changes to come. For example, FNRR
may change to a pure Client organization, which procures services it needs from private suppliers under a
competitive regime. Such a change is a marked departure from the current practice and will require training
and capacity building in FNRR and, of course, political will above FNRR. Should FNRR also develop



                                                     - 6 -

toward a public utility company, there will be pressures to price road services (tolling) appropriately and
more efficient planning and design of all road management actions using PMS and BMS systems.

At the railways, the institutional development impact is significant, although many of the actions are not yet
completed. But, the groundwork has been laid: the studies have been completed; there is a fair
understanding of the investment needs, tariff setting and expected traffic demand; there is an agreement on
labor redundancies; and, the legal framework for railway restructuring is close to approval by the
parliament. Still, training of management and staff is a high priority for the railways to respond to market
demands in an efficient manner and to market its services to prospective customers to serve the growth of
the country's economy.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The most important and decisive factor outside the control of the government or implementing agency was
the Kosovo/FYR of Macedonia crises that started with the influx of refugees in the spring of 1999 and
expanded to hostilities in northwest part of country by late 2000, which did not calm down until late 2001.
The crises diverted the Government's and the implementing agencies' attention to more urgent matters. It
affected directly the road construction which was located in the area where hostilities took place. Weather
conditions delayed the execution of the pilot maintenance program. The change in political power in
democratic elections affected government priorities, which were reflected in the restructuring
implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government ministers changed several times during the project, even with the same party in power,
and that affected priorities and the persons in management capacity, especially at the railways. The
Government elected to proceed incrementally. At the first stage accounting separation of infrastructure and
train services has been implemented, as required by the EU directive. For relevant reasons, the Government
elected not to place priority on implementing the planned IT component, but, instead, chose to make minor
improvements in infrastructure and locomotives, and undertake additional studies to define more clearly
what restructuring and investment courses should be pursued. The results of the consultant studies, and
their disagreement with the perceptions prevailing in the MR management at the time, may have affected
the Government's ability to proceed quickly to downsize the labor force and deepen restructuring. Status
quo provided for employment stability, but it also deprived the railways an opportunity to develop and
improve its services. Nonetheless, the process ended in a positive note: MR and the Bank developed a
strategy based on the consultant recommendations; subsequent discussions led to a workshop, agreements,
and eventually a robust restructuring model evolved.         Decisions on restructuring were reached and
privatization of the train services will be prepared under the next project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In the road sector, the implementing agency decided to change the equipment it acquired with the loan funds
because those planned for purchase under the project were donated. Instead, other necessary equipment
were acquired and, FNRR chose not to implement a Bridge Management System, but decided that the
bridge inspection system was sufficient for prioritizing and deciding the actions to maintain the bridge park.
The FNRR also decided to expand and implement, successfully, a road maintenance pilot program. It plans
to employ the technology on system wide basis, but, unfortunately, may not have the freedom to implement
the competitive road maintenance procurement regime on full scale. At the Railways, the management
basically followed the political leadership and decisions. It is unclear if the Railways had freedom to
manage or simply opted not to exercise it. Nonetheless, the Railways did not implement a pricing system
for freight and passengers for which a (good) model was developed. MR also opted to retain an old


                                                      - 7 -

percentage of revenue based track access charging system, and MR did not change clearly its time-based
track maintenance method to use-based method. On balance, the consultant advice may not have been "just
right" for MR to change its concepts of railway maintenance, and given the changes at policy-making level
and the sheer complexity and difficulty of restructuring railways, the pursued course to study more and
wait for clearer policy directives and political consensus may have been appropriate. At least they were the
most important factors in the decision to go slowly.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project costs and financing are detailed in Annex 2. After restructuring, there were no surprises
beyond what is to be expected in a "normal" course of a project. The counterpart funds were available
timely.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project, as revised, consisted mostly of highway related expenditures: highway construction, pilot
program in highway maintenance to introduce new maintenance technologies, technical assistance and
associated equipment. A much lesser amount, after restructuring, was allocated to the railways: studies,
technical assistance and equipment. Sustainability of the highway related actions is likely. The new
maintenance technologies are incremental - but important and non-trivial - improvements to the present and
introduce meaningful and cost-effective concepts to FNRR in road maintenance. The railway component is
also going to be sustainable in the sense that it funded studies of railways from multiple perspectives, not
all doable, but providing a basis for Government actions that will be sustainable. These include the (new)
Railway Law, staff reduction initiative, and agreement on the railway restructuring model. The equipment
bought is in sustainable use.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has already taken place in the road sector and no special arrangements
are needed; although political will needs to be developed to adopt the new concept to procure maintenance
services competitively to widespread use and consequently restructure and privatize MacedonijaPat, the
state-owned road maintenance company. In the railways, a new project is being prepared that will prepare
for the privatization of the railways, which in itself is a transition to a new kind of "regular" operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in project preparation was satisfactory. In the road sector it conducted appropriate
studies and identified the most efficient ways to make the road network serve customers well and for FNRR
to become more efficient in maintaining the network through improved and modernized maintenance
technology. In the railways component the Bank judged the physical assets to be in reasonable condition,
or best improved through restructuring, separation of infrastructure and train services, commercialization,
and acquisition of modern IT equipment. Restructuring was patterned according to the EU regulations and
planned for gradual implementation. Consultant studies during the project were planned to support and
focus restructuring and other railway efficiency measures.            In retrospect, neither the Bank nor the
consultants sufficiently appreciated the extent of required culture change at the MR and the necessity for
both the Government and the MR to accept and internalize new concepts in managing the railways. The
new position of MR of being a national railway in a very small country but interdependent and dependent
on international traffic and train services was also not sufficiently understood. For this reason, while the
railway restructuring did progress beyond studies but at slower tempo, the project needed to be restructured



                                                       - 8 -

and funds intended for railway IT reallocated to purposes where they could be more effectively used during
the time available for project implementation.


7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory or better. The Kosovo/Macedonian crises delayed
project implementation.      In the meantime consultant studies on the railways progressed and gave
appropriate information and also revealed the thinness of "ownership" of the new railway management
concepts. After the crises subsided and the midterm evaluation was held, the Government asked the Bank to
restructure the project, which it did (appropriately). The IT monies were reallocated to an expanded pilot
road maintenance program, railway consultant studies continued, some maintenance equipment was
bought, and a process approach was employed to seek agreement for the railway restructuring. This was a
successful intervention, which not only allowed the project to be completed and close, but also did result in
commitment to a certain railway restructuring model. There were also other minor adjustments - regarding
equipment and consultancies - that the Bank's supervision team made in response to changed circumstances
or changed views about priorities. In 2000, there was a supervision QAG review, which was rated
satisfactory (2).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory and responsive to client needs and views vis-a-vis the project's
development objective.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was active and fully engaged in preparing the roads component. Acceptance of the project's
components was high. However, the slowness and even reluctance with which the training and technical
assistance components - as distinct of their technological aspects - were later implemented is a troublesome
finding. Evidence of the Borrower's participation in preparing the railway component is contradictory. On
one hand, the government understood the issues and wanted to improve the railways, one of the biggest
SOE loss-makers, but on the other hand although it did perceive the extent of the changes, it faced the
political difficulties in making them. Overall, however, because the Borrower cooperated effectively in
preparation its performance was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
During project implementation the Kosovo/Macedonian crises required the Government's full attention and
hostilities took place in the region where the road was constructed, causing project delays. There were
political changes and the GoM appears to have placed a high premium on preserving current levels of
Government employment and avoiding civil discord. This affected the utilization of the results of the
studies for both road and rail organizations. On the positive side, the government did provide the
counterpart monies, adjusted its project concepts and priorities in response to information, and remained a
cooperative, albeit at times reluctant partner. Overall, with some misgivings but recognizing the difficult
political situation, GoM implementation performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
In the road sector the FNRR performance was clearly satisfactory for the road works and adoption of new
road maintenance technologies; it was marginally satisfactory in utilizing TA and training to improve the
institution and staff capacity. FNRR implemented the road components to a successful conclusion in spite
of the crises. It expanded the pilot maintenance component and adopted new maintenance technologies, and
is pushing for the adoption of a competitive regime for procuring road maintenance. It adjusted
meaningfully its equipment component to fit its needs and available funding, including from other sources.


                                                     - 9 -

But, FNRR was either slow or negligent in making use of the technical assistance and training
opportunities and funds. MR had a more difficult task and time. It initially received optimistic and
sometimes unattainable consultant advice, which it must have known, while trying to run and manage
declining railway traffic, and restructure itself in a difficult political and labor environment. During the
course of the project, MR internalized the need to restructure to which it is now committed, made an
accounting separation of infrastructure and train services according to the EU directives, scheduled its past
debt obligations, accepted more modest but realistic objectives, and now perceives its market position more
clearly and is now making "right" decisions. This is a significant change and merits a satisfactory rating.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

There are four lessons:

Ensure that the Bank and Borrower have the same concept about institutional change and accept
slowness in implementation. Institutional changes were important in this project. Initially, in the FYR of
Macedonia, there was a gap in understanding of the concept and content of railway restructuring between
the Client and the Bank staff and its consultants. This gap in understanding between the Bank and the
client was overcome by bringing in more stakeholders and raising the level of discussions to a steering
group comprised of several ministries and the railways. This was a good and successful intervention.
Generally, it is important that the concepts Bank staff and consultants propose for adoption coincide with
the concepts the client has in mind. Otherwise there will be delays and resistance to change; ultimately
institutional change is put on hold. A corollary of this lesson, which the adoption of the road maintenance
technology clearly illustrates, is that gradual, incremental changes work the best. Gradual transformation
is best achieved during implementation rather than preparation, the client gains experiential knowledge and
learns why changes are necessary and meaningful and then carries them out.

Spell out the boundaries for freedom to manage for the SOEs. In post command economy countries it is
difficult for Government entities to accept and put into use the idea of "freedom to manage". The desire
goes both ways: politicians prefer not to allow freedom to manage because political interventions may have
a pay-off, and conversely, managerial freedom may result in (politically) "undesirable" consequences; on
the other hand, managers do not always like to have managerial freedom because that would make them
accountable. It follows that the Government must spell out in writing both the mandate and the mission of
the SOE management. This was not done by the Government neither for the roads nor the railways. A
corollary of this lesson may also be stated otherwise: it is difficult to improve performance within a
parastatal structure of governance.

Review important investments during the project prior to final decision. A review of major investment
decision (the railway IT) during the project led to its elimination and project restructuring. This was a good
decision and could only have been made during implementation after the specifications of the component,
its costs and benefits, and management willingness to act on its consequences on restructuring could be
thoroughly evaluated.

The Bank supervision team must have the time, money and appropriate staffing (Railway specialist in
this case) resources to supervise and process the consultant work.                Reviewing, integrating and
processing the several consultants' work into an appropriate intervention is time-consuming but important
work. The consultants often submit voluminous work to the client, with jargon and foreign concepts, and



                                                     - 10 -

make recommendations and solutions that seem obvious, narrowly focused, financially impossible, or
simply unwise. Some recommendations are merely restatements of the problems and inappropriate in the
socioeconomic context. (For example, a recommendation to change from time-based maintenance regime
to a use-based regime, without finding out what issues have to be dealt with in order to implement it; or,
reducing large numbers of staff without examining the strength of the labor unions and political
repercussions). It is important, as projects never evolve as planned, that there are appropriate supervision
resources to manage a project well. Otherwise, the Borrower is not served well, progress is thwarted, and
consultants are paid for work of which the Borrower is both unappreciative and unable to use.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following letter was received from the Borrower on March 15, 2005. In addition, FNRR and MR
provided a detailed contribution to the ICR (see Annex 8) which is reflected in the final ICR.




REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
  MINISTRY OF FINANCE
           S k o p j e


To:      The World Bank Resident Office in the Republic of Macedonia

Attn:     Ms. Sandra Bloemenkamp, Country Director
          Resident Mission in Macedonia
          Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                                                            March 9, 2004


         Subject: Comments on the Implementation Completion Report for the Transport Sector Project -
                                             Loan No. 4439 MK

        Dear Ms. Bloemenkamp,

        Thank you very much for submitting the Draft Implementation Completion Report for the recently
finalized Macedonian Transport Sector Project, for which the Loan Agreement in amount of EUR 27
million was signed on May 24, 1999.

        We are very pleased that the project objectives have been achieved - improved efficiency of the
road and railway system. We are also aware that the project objectives have not been implemented and
achieved as planned at the time of the appraisal and that there were some delays dating since 1999, when
the Republic of Macedonia was facing an enormous number of refugees as a result of the Kosovo crisis. In
addition, 2001 has been a very difficult year for Macedonia. Insurgency in the northern part of our country
has distracted the Government, and the population as a whole, from its task of economic recovery and
development.




                                                    - 11 -

         The implementation was delayed at the very outset of the Project, due to the Kosovo crisis in 1999,
especially with respect to the road sector-related Project components. The crisis led to delay in completing
Grupcin-Tetovo road section over a year later than the planned.

         The implementation of other components, such as the Pilot Maintenance Program, the technical
assistance and training, as well as the equipment procurement for the Road Fund needs, was also delayed
due to the Road Fund having received the equipment as USTDA grant (road profiler, deflectometer and
automatic traffic counters), envisaged to be procured through the Transport Sector Project.

         With respect to Macedonian Railways (MR) component of this project, having in mind the reasons
explained above, during the project implementation the Government proposed to restructure MR
component since we considered that there was no immediate need for procurement of telecommunication
equipment and dispatching radio system for the current level of traffic. In fact, our main intention was the
new entities, which would emerge as a result of the Railways restructuring process, to be the ones to decide
on the level of investment.

         Due to these reasons, we requested 23-month extension of the deadline for Project completion,
period considered to be sufficient for achieving the objectives envisaged with this Project. We also
requested reallocation of the Loan amount as follows: (a) reduction of the total allocation for the railways
from EUR 10 million to EUR 1.9 million; and (b) increase in the allocation for the road sector from EUR
17 million to EUR 25.1 million.

           On June 10, 2002, the World Bank gave no objection for extension of the Closing Date of the
Project by May 31, 2004. The second extension of the Loan was approved by the World Bank in May
2004 and the final Closing Date for the Loan was duly postponed for September 30, 2004.

           However, although the project was implemented with a 27-month extension, we consider that
efforts provided by the implementing agencies (FNRR and MR), have shown results.

           Namely, FNRR expanded Trans-European Network motorway at the most heavily traveled 15
km segment from Tetovo to Grupcin, pilot road maintenance program covered 110 km of both national and
regional roads. TA and training provided to the FNRR in general supported the project objectives.

           Even though railways-related component of the project was significantly reduced, procurement of
the necessary equipment for MR provided good results. Purchasing of rails, slippers and track maintenance
at critical locations and rehabilitation of Diesel Motor Units had led to improved railway service.

           In general, we consider that the project implementation was successfully carried out. I would also
like to express our gratitude to World Bank Project Team and to you for the support provided during the
project implementation. I strongly believe that in near future we will continue with our fruitful and
successful cooperation particularly in the area of transport sector.

           Yours sincerely,
                                                                                     Minister of Finance,

                                                                                     Nikola Popovski MA

cc: Mr. Ad Melkert, Executive Director, World Bank




                                                     - 12 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                             - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Lower cost of transport on the
Tetovo-Grupcin road section: Reduced "road 95%                                   96% (by the ex-post benefit-cost analysis)
user cost/vehicle km" as measured by the
Highway Design Model (HDM), and (ii)
increased time savings measured by           71%                                 55% [by the ex-post benefit-cost analysis)
"average travel speed".
(iii) Enhanced efficiency and increased
in-house capability of FNRR to plan and
program investments, monitor pricing of road
services, and rationalize maintenance
expenditures. Measured in the number of      5                                   8
persons trained.
(iv) Increased efficiency and lower cost of
railway operations, measured in:
(a) the number of employees                  3871                                3619
(b) labor productivity of MR;                110                                 135
(c) operating costs.                         2254                                2194




Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Completion of Tetovo-Grupcin road section    Not projected                       Completed as planned 15km
Pilot Road Maintenance project               Not projected                       Completed as revised (upward) 110 km
Training and BMS system                      Not projected                       Training completed, BMS not completed
Acquisition of equipment for FNRR            Not projected                       Completed as planned (with substitutions)
Implementation of technical assistance to MR Not projected                       Completed as planned and expanded

1End of project




                                                              - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Tetovo-Grupcin Road                                          23.10          33.08            1.43
Pilot Maintenance project, incl supervision                   5.00            9.89           1.98
Technical Assistance and Training to FNRR                     0.20            0.24            1.2
Equipment for FNRR                                            1.20            0.51           0.42
Equipment for Railways                                       11.50            1.69           0.15
Technical Assistance and Training for Railways                0.40            0.54           1.35

Total Baseline Cost                                          41.40          45.95
                         Total Project Costs                 41.40          45.95
                                          Front-end fee       0.30            0.30           1.00
                  Total Financing Required                   41.70          46.25


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB               2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            27.70            0.00         0.00         0.00        27.70
                                   (18.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (18.00)
2. Goods                            12.50            0.00         0.20         0.00        12.70
                                   (12.50)          (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)     (12.70)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00         1.00         0.00         1.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)      (1.00)
   Total                            40.20            0.00         1.20         0.00        41.40
                                   (30.50)          (0.00)      (1.20)         (0.00)     (31.70)




                                                 - 15 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 40.31              0.00              0.00             0.00             40.31
                                           (27.75)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (27.75)
   2. Goods                                 2.17               0.00              0.30             0.00              2.47
                                           (2.17)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (2.47)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.78             0.00              0.78
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.78)            (0.00)           (0.78)
       Total                                42.48              0.00              1.08             0.00             43.56
                                           (29.92)            (0.00)            (1.08)            (0.00)           (31.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Tetovo-Grupcin Road            25.00         8.10         0.00       21.32         11.76      0.00       85.3     145.2      0.0
Pilot Maintenance project      12.00         1.60         0.00        6.43         3.46       0.00       53.6     216.3      0.0
TA and Training for FNRR        0.20         0.00         0.00        0.24         0.00       0.00       120.0     0.0       0.0
Equipment for FNRR              1.20         0.00         0.00        0.51         0.00       0.00       42.5      0.0       0.0
Equipment for MR                1.50         0.20         0.00        1.69         0.00       0.00       112.7     0.0       0.0
TA and Training for MR          0.40         0.00         0.00        0.54         0.00       0.00       135.0     0.0       0.0

   Appraisal estimate is after restructuring




                                                           - 16 -

   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

   An ex-post economic appraisal was done using HDM-4 model with the most recently available data. Actual
   traffic numbers were used for the early years and the actual cost stream in 2000 to 2003.            In the
   re-evaluation, congestion was accounted for by means of volume-delay curves and tolling was embedded in
   the experienced (tolled) traffic volumes, which were projected to the future. According to the ex-post
   calculation the NPV is US$17 million and ERR of 18% (using todays exchange rates). This is slightly
   higher than what was expected at appraisal and justifies the investment decision. The exposition of the full
   benefit-cost analysis not possible here; it is available on file. A brief summary of the data, assumptions
   and results follows.

   Description of the Road Before and After the Improvement:

                          Road Description: Principal Characteristics of the Motorway

                                  Before Lanes addition             After Lanes Addition
General     Speed flow type       Two Lane Standard                 Four Lane Road
            Traffic flow pattern  Inter urban
            Climate zone          Mean rainfall: 60 mm/month        Mean rainfall: 60 mm/month
                                  Mean temperature: 10             Mean temperature: 10C
                                   Semi arid, Temperature cool      Semi arid, Temperature cool
            Pavement Type         Asphalt Mix                       Asphalt Mix
                                  on Asphalt Pavement               on Asphalt Pavement
            Length                18.2 km                           18.2 km
            Carriageway width     7.5 m                             15 m
            Shoulder width        1.5 m                             2.5 m
            Number of lanes       2                                 4
            Traffic               Year 1985: 4433 AADT              Year 2003: 8500 AADT
                                       Cars: 54.6%                       Cars: 71%
                                       Minibus: 8%                       Minibus: 6.5%
                                       Bus: 6.5%                         Bus: 4.5%
                                       2 axle-truck: 11%                 2 axle-truck: 6%
                                       3 axle-truck: 11.7%               3 axle-truck: 7%
                                       >3 axle-truck: 8.2%               >3 axle-truck: 5%
Geometry    Geometry class        Straight and level                Straight and level
            Posted speed limit    90 Km/h                           110 km/h
            Last rehabilitation   1989                              -
Pavement                          4 cm Asphalt concrete                  -New Lanes:
                                  5 cm Asphalt concrete                  5 cm Polymerized asphalt
                                  10 cm Bitumen gravel
                                  40 cm Crushed stone                    14 cm Asphalt concrete
                                                                         35 cm Crushed stone
            Pavement Structure                                           - Existing Lanes:
                                                                         5 cm Polymerized asphalt
                                                                         4 cm Asphalt concrete
                                                                         10 cm Bitumen gravel
                                                                         40 cm Crushed stone
Condition                         IRI poor
                                  Pavement very cracked
                                   Year 1999:                       Year 2003:
                                       IRI = 6                           IRI = 1.2
                                       Cracks: 15%                       Cracks: 5%
                                       Potholes: 10/km                   Potholes: 8/km
                                       Ravelled area: 20%                Ravelled area: 2%
                                       Rutting: 15mm                     Rutting: 3 mm




                                                         - 17 -

                                    Maintenance Standards

Maintenance standard without lanes addition:

  - Patching potholes:                             Every year
                                                   Economic cost: 9 /m
                                                   Effects: 100% of potholes repaired

  - Mill and replace existing pavement:            Every 12 years
                                                   Economic cost: 15 /m
                                                   Effects: HDM-4 derived
Improvement standard:

  - 2 lanes addition:                              Works duration: 2 years (2000 - 20001)
                                                   Economic cost: 1.330 220 /km
                                                   Cost stream: 2000: 65%, 2001: 35%
                                                   Preparatory works: patching, crack sealing
                                                   User-defined IRI (= 1.3) and rutting (=3mm)
Maintenance standard after lanes addition:

  - Patching potholes:                             Every year
                                                   Economic cost: 9 /m
                                                   Effects: 100% of potholes repaired

  - Crack sealing:                                 Every year
                                                   Economic cost: 2 /m
                                                   Effects: 100% of cracks repaired

  - Overlay with 4 cm of Asphalt Concrete:         Triggered when IRI reaches 4
                                                   Preparatory works: patching
                                                   Economic cost: 6 /m
                                                   Effects: HDM-4 derived




                                             - 18 -

                                  Traffic

    Vehicle              1985                2003            Growth
   Category         %       AADT         %       AADT          Rate
                                                            1985-2003
Cars              54.6%         2420    71%          6035     5.21%
Minibus             8%            355 6.5%             553    2.49%
Bus                6.5%           288 4.5%             383    1.59%
2 axle truck       11%            488    6%            510    0.25%
3 axle truck      11.7%           519    7%            595    0.77%
>3 axle truck      8.2%           364    5%            425    0.87%
     Total        100%          4433 100%            8500        -

                                           Economic Indicators Summary

   Alternative    Present     Present    Increase Decrease      Net        Net     NPV/Cost NPV/Cost Internal
                 Value of     Value of  in Agency   in User Exogenous Present        Ratio      Ratio  Rate of
                  Total       Agency    Costs (C) Costs (B) Benefits      Value     (NPV/       (NPV/  Return
                  Agency      Capital                           (E)       (NPV=      RAC)       CAP)    (IRR)
                Costs (RAC) Costs (CAP)                                  B+E-C)
  Base case            2.300       2.297     0.000      0.000     0.000      0.000      0.000     0.000   0.000
  Four lane road      23.564      23.541    21.264     35.663     0.000    14.398       0.611     0.612  17.9(1)


Again, the traffic growth and the results of the benefit cost analysis indicate that the assumptions and
forecasts made at appraisal to justify the road project were sound. No economic analysis was made for the
pilot road maintenance project.       The outcome that FNRR intends to utilize the new maintenance
technologies in the future for reasons of their cost-effectiveness is a proof of their benefits.




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count             Specialty                           Progress        Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/1997                     2     TM, RA
               06/1997                     4     TM, RA, TE, Economist
               12/1997                     3     TM, RA, Sr. FA

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               04/1998                     4     TM, RA, TE, Env
               01/1999                     1     TM

 Supervision
               07/1999                      2    TM, Princ.TE
               11/1999                      3    TM, TS, PO                              S                S
               03/2000                      3    TM, TS, PO                              S                S
               09/2000                      3    TM, Sr. TS, PO                          S                S
               12/2002                      3    TM, RC, PO                              S                S
               05/2002                      2    RC, PO                                  S                S
               12/2002                      3    TM, RC, PO                              S                S
               03/2003                      3    TM, RC, Sr. FA                          S                S
               11/2003                      3    TM, RC, PO                              S                S
               02/2004                      4    TM, RC, PS, PO                          S                S

 ICR
               12/2004                     1     ICR author                              S                S

Abbreviations: TM = Task Manager, TS = Transport Specialist, TE = Transport Engineer, PO = Project Officer,
RA = Railway Advisor, RC = Railway Consultant, Env = Environmentalist, FA = Financial Analyst.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            No longer
  Appraisal/Negotiation              supported by                            219.3
  Supervision                    Bank info system                            503.1
  ICR                                           5                             20.6
  Total                                                                      743.0




                                                 - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                            Rating

   Lending                                       HS      S       U    HU
   Supervision                                   HS      S       U    HU
   Overall                                       HS      S       U    HU


Bank performed better in Lending for the Road component than for the Railways component. However, the
latter was clearly the more difficult one, and the Bank reoriented itself very well during supervision and,
based on new consultant studies, restructured the project with the Borrower and reallocated more monies on
the Roads where they could be used efficiently. Meanwhile the Bank adjusted its approach to the Railways
so that the railway issues can be dealt with in the next project.

6.2 Borrower performance                        Rating

   Preparation                                   HS      S       U    HU
   Government implementation performance         HS      S       U    HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS      S       U    HU
   Overall                                       HS      S       U    HU


The Borrower had a change in political power twice during the project. This did not affect materially the
road component where the procedures had been well established and required only incremental but
important changes. At the railways the situation was totally different, and Borrower wisely requested a
reallocation of funds to get more time to prepare the MR for restructuring. Both the roads and railway
components were affected by the Kosovo and the Macedonian crises.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Restructuring, Economic, and Technical Rehabilitation of Macedonian Railways. Wilbur Smith. 1997.

2. Economic and Financial Analysis in Support of a Restructuring Program for Macedonian Railways.
Victor Alalouf. 1997.

3. Feasibility Study of the Road M-4 -- Grupcin - Tetovo. Granit Company and the Traffic Faculty
Institute of Belgrade. 1996.

4. Project Appraisal Document. The Wold Bank. January 1999.

5. Program for Restructuring of the Public Enterprise "Macedonian Railways" for the Period 2000-2003.
Aleksandar Petrovsky. March 2000.

6. Infrastructure Assessment and Development of Investment and Maintenance Plan for Macedonian
Railways. Support [to] Infrastructure Planning, Investment Planning and Accounting Separation. David R.
Burns, Railroad Industrial Engineering Consultant. July 2001.

7. Macedonian Railways: Tasks to Support Internal Profit Centers for freight and Passenger Transport.
William Hennessey. June 2001

8. Restructuring Strategy and Implementation Plan for Macedonian Railways. William Hennessey. Two
drafts, March 2002.

9. Road Maintenance Technologies for the Pilot Project. Scetauroute 2002.

10. Railway Restructuring. Thomas Bolland, CEI Consult. 2002

11. Republic of Macedonia. Road Widening: Internal Rate of Return (IRR) Calculation With HDM-4.
Scetauroute, April 2004.

12. Project Status reports and Mission Aide-Memoires.




                                                  - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. FNRR and MR contributions

                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT - LOAN 4439-MK

ROAD COMPONENT: IMPLEMENTING AGENCY-FNRR

1.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.1   Original Objectives and Changes during Implementation
As stated in the PAD dated January 12, 1999 the overall objective of the Project was to improve the
efficiency of the road and railway systems and in particular roads component was to support the following:
        Upgrading of the Tetovo-Grupcin Road Section
        Pilot Road Maintenance Project
        Technical assistance and training to FNRR
        Equipment for FNRR

The Project's road improvement component was focused on expanding one of the most heavily traveled 15
km segment from Tetovo to Grupcin, while the remaining segment from Skopje to Grupcin was financed by
the European Investment Bank.

The Pilot Maintenance Project originally was focused on implementation of lower cost maintenance
technologies slurry seals, micro surfacing and surface treatment on short segment of roads (about 30 km.).
The pilot road maintenance activity was expanded on 110 km of national and regional roads.

Technical assistance and training to FNRR - strengthened planning and management capabilities of the
Fund for National and Regional Roads (FNRR) through a program design to train FNRR staff in using
modern information management systems, low-cost maintenance technologies, and planning tools,
establishing a methodology to assess and monitor the adequacy of Road User Charges.

The planned equipment at appraisal a bump integrator, deflectometer, and automatic traffic counters to
support data gathering on roads condition as part of the effort to improve accuracy of the PMS. USTDA
provided grant funds for bump integrator and deflectometer; in their stead traffic counters and weighing
scales were acquired.

2.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The Development Objective of the project was appropriate at the time of preparation. There were issues on
assessing the development objective of the Project: the crises of 1999, when Macedonia was facing an
enormous number of refugees as a result of the Kosovo crisis and in 2001 because of insurgency in the
northern part of Macedonia. As direct result of the crises, the Project was restructured in 2002 with
reallocation of the loan proceeds and extension by 23 months, and later another extension by 4 months till
September 30, 2004 to complete the Pilot Maintenance program. The reallocation was made between the
railways and roads components; reduction of the total allocation for the railways from EUR 10 million to
EUR 1.9 million and increase in the allocation for the road sector from EUR 17 million to EUR 25.1
million.

2.1   Civil works - Grupcin-Tetovo East Motorway section: the section was expanded to motorway
standard, in very difficult conditions with good quality. The road was opened to traffic in September 2002.
Toll stations, lights and some other facilities along the road have been financed through Road Fund and put
into operation.



                                                     - 24 -

2.2   Civil works  Pilot Maintenance Program. The large reallocation form the railway to the road sector
resulted in expanding the pilot maintenance program to 110 km of national and regional roads. The pilot
maintenance included financing of maintenance under alternative low cost procedures applicable in a wide
variety of circumstances.

2.3   Technical assistance and training to the FNRR was successful in implementing               the Pilot
Maintenance Program. The hired consultant (Scetauroute) performed the following tasks: (i) selection of
appropriate sections according to the PMS in cooperation with the FNRR technical staff, (ii) definition of
techniques to be selected and formulas to be tried depending on existing damage and the availability of
materials (mainly aggregates, bituminous and additives; (iii) preparation of technical specifications; and
(iv) technical assistance in the supervision of the pilot contracts. Also, FNRR staff and supervisors
attended trainings in France and in Bulgaria for the implementation of the new road maintenance
technologies before the start of the works. FNRR sent two representatives to the Bank procurement training
organized in Skopje in early December 2003.

Concerning the road user charges study, that activity will be carried out under a study financed by a grant
as a part of the institutional component of the EBRD loan signed in July 2003.

The Financial Management System is implemented and developed, but that is not the case with the
acquisition of a Bridge Management System. The Bridge Inspection System is taking place with the Bridge
Inspection Vehicle acquired by the World Bank loan  Transit Facilitation Project.

2.4.   Equipment to FNRR. The automatic traffic counters (60) and two sets of mobile axle load weigh
stations were acquired with the loan funds, as to improve the road data bank and the accuracy of the PMS
instead of the planned equipment for purchase under the project those were donated.

3.    PROBLEMS AND LESSONS LEARNT
As a result of the crises in 1999 and 2001 the Project was extended twice for 27 months, resulted in
completion of the Project components with a big delay, which was not a case with the previous World Bank
financed roads Project. Because of numerous duties regarding implementation of the project and related
commitments of various nature incumbent upon the Fund for National and Regional Roads, the PCU and
other professional FNRR staff, although well qualified, proved very soon to be insufficient and unable to
complete some of the components on time. As a consequence certain delays and not completed parts of
components occurred especially within the technical assistance and training. FNRR, despite many efforts,
did not succeed in increasing its personnel through the live of the loan.

4.    BORROWER AND BANK PERFORMANCE
The FNRR is an agency with outstanding experience in the implementation of projects especially this one in
spite of the crises. The pilot maintenance component was expanded successfully and new maintenance
technologies adopted. The equipment component was adjusted to fit the needs and available funding,
including from other sources. The FNRR's need is training in the economic evaluation of road investments.
The FNNR is very appreciative of the help, work and advice given by the Bank's staff during the
implementation of the project. The contribution and work of the Task Manager's Ms. Mirtha Pokorny, Mr.
Luis Revuelta, Mr. Peter Parker and Mr. Olivier Le Ber, as well as Mr. Zarko Bogoev from the World
Bank Office in Skopje, and their supervision missions, have contributed greatly to the final success and
achievements of the project. Despite the crises and consequent difficulties for implementation the project
especially civil works, the Bank team helped a lot for successful completion of the Project.




                                                    - 25 -

             DRAFT REPORT ON COMPLETION OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
                         TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 4439-MK)
                                        RAILWAY COMPONENT


1.    Project Objectives and Changes During Implementation

Purpose of the project transport sector railway component is to assist the Government in implementation of
the Program on restructuring of the PE Macedonian Railways which should in whole meet the EU
Directives requirements.

The Loan amounted Eur 27.000.000, out of which, Eur 10.000.000 were allocated to the railway
components to be used for realization of parts E (Equipment
goods and spare parts) and F (MR Restructuring) . The funds for part E were committed to procurement
of:

    -     Information equipment
    -     Radio Dispatching System
    -    Communication equipment-multiplex devices.

The funds for realization of Part F were committed to provision of consulting services.

Upon request of the Government of the FYRoM (Ministry of Finance), the Loan Agreement was modified
in 2002. The former amount dedicated to Macedonian Railways was reduced to Eur 1.900.000. The
residue of Eur 8.100.000 to the originally allocated Eur 10.000.000 were re-allocated to the Fund for
National and Regional Roads (FNNR). In 2003 was approved restriction of the unused available loan
funds for the E part for procurement of:

    -    Infrastructure equipment ( rails and sleepers )
    -    Transport equipment ( DMU's spare parts )

For the purposes of the category 2- Equipment , in October 2003 were signed five Contracts for purchase
of equipment for maintenance of the infrastructure and transport. The Contracts were fully realized. In
2004 was made re-allocation of funds by categories by which the amount of available funds by categories
was increased for Eur 24.000, their structure is as follows:

Category 2: equipment, goods and spare parts for Part E           Eur 1.440.000
Category 5: equipment, goods and spare parts for parts E and F Eur       465.000

In total, from category 2 were used Eur 1.424.772,86 and from category 5, Eur 449.301,10. We haven't
received yet confirmation for payment of the application for direct payment to our consultant Mr. W.
Hennesy to amount of $ 9.311,00 approximately (Eur 7.200,00). With this, the used funds in category 5
would amount to about Eur 456.000. From the available funds in category 2 for the railway component
remain unused Eur 15.227,14, and in category 5, approximately Eur 8.500.

From the special account opened at the National Bank, up to date have been made payments to amount of
Eur 1.193.613,86 direct payments from the loan funds to amount of Eur 680.460,00 and one direct
payment to amount of USA $ 9.311,00 (about Eur 7.200).

2.    Realisation and Efficiency of the Loan Funds


                                                    - 26 -

2.1   Procurement of Materials for Infrastructure Maintenance

         - Rails                   Eur 344.170
         - Sleepers                Eur 354.304

                          Total: Eur 698.474

Loan funds were used for procurement of 13000 m of rails in order to be renewed, that is, replaced the
worn out rails on the rail section Tabanovci  Gevgelija., procurement of 6630 pcs. impregnated wooden
track sleepers and 295,75 m3 impregnated point sleepers due their obsoletness. The material was
supplied, the activities started and it is expected that the entire replacement will be completed in the first
half of 2005. The extracted track material will be used for branch lines. The realization of the project will
contribute to elimination of the bottleneck in a length of 6,5 on the main line and increase of the speed,
the cost for current and investment maintenance will be reduced, and the most important, the traffic safety,
will increase.

        l due to the small length of the line, i.e 6,5 km on which replacement of rails and sleepers will
             take place, the effects were not expressed in figures.

2.2   Purchase of Equipment for Reconstruction of 2 DMU

         - diesel engines and DMU equipment                          Eur 288.050,00
         - compressors for DMUs                                      Eur 219.893,86
         - hydraulic transmission                                    Eur 218.355,00

                                            Total:                   Eur 726.298,86

This project realisation will contribute to rehabilitation of two DMUs which will be put in operation and
will replace the classical diesel trains hauled by diesel loco, with high power and high level of fuel
consumption, and will reduce the cost of domestic passenger services.

The economic-financial analyses on evaluation of the investment effectiveness makes comparison between
the classical passenger train set of 4 coaches and diesel traction with loco type 661 and the new state with
the reconstructed DMUs, type 712 that would operate on the section Skopje-Bitola. The reconstructed
DMUs will be put in operation at the end of 2005, effects are expected from 2006 onward.

The effects were looked for only in fuel consumption. The fuel consumption with the classical passenger
train sets is 14 kg on 1000 gtkm, and with DMU 1 kg. per km. Daily saving of fuel for movement of 1
DMU on distance Skopje-Bitola-Skopje amounts about 300 kg.

Made calculations indicated that the investment has a return rate of 10,06%, 9 years respectively. The
Effect would have been even higher if was taken into account the saving in current and investment
maintenance which is less with the DMU in comparison to the maintenance of a diesel loco together with
coaches.

2.3   Consulting Services and Training

The Government of Macedonia engaged a number of consultants in the period 1997-2002 for to review
various aspects of the PE MR operations and assist in defining and implementation of the PE MR's



                                                     - 27 -

restructuring program which would, in whole, comply to the EU Directiveness requirements.

Studies made:

    (a) Support of internat profit centers for passenger and freight,
        By W. Hennesy ( USA $ 98.964)                                               Eur 110.480,44

    (b) Traffic costing model by V. Alalouf-$ 67.700, paid 67.000)                  Eur 76.335,26

    (c) Evaluation of MR's Infrastructure and Plan for its maintenance
        planning, investments and accounting separation
        (D.Burns,$ 55.686,33 )                                                      Eur 61.755,01

    (d) Radiowaves expansion and technical specifications for
        radio-dispatching system (Croatian Railways, $ 92.000,00)                   Eur 104.772,71

    (e) CIE Consult-Dabin, T.Bolan ($ 68.460)                                       Eur 56.569,13

    (f) Consultant-coordinator for transformation
        implementation (W. Hennesy , $ 37.244 )                                     Eur 29.977,45

    (g) Training in Warchaw and Helsinki                                            Eur 16.611,00

                                                    Total:                          Eur 456.501,00

    (a) as regards this study, the infrastructure assets were defined and located, made cost/ revenue
        analyses for each segment separately, infrastructure cost price, draft system for tax collection from
        operators, future needs for investments and future sources and level of required support from the
        Government of the R.M.

The Study was used at developing the PE MR Business Plan 2004-2008.

    (b) within the scope of this study, was developed a costing model which shows the variable cost, route
        and certain sections of transportation. The model was supposed to assist in analyzing the
        profitability of significant traffic elements (freight per line section and goods, passenger per line
        section and type of service); Hasn't been implemented.

    (c) This study made allocation of          the operational cost and revenue to passenger, freight and
        infrastructure, identified the traffic opportunities with large number of market elements, made five
        years business plan, addressed the PE MR debts (internal and foreign) and proposed write off,
        drafted PSO agreement        regarding compensation of losses with the non-profitable passenger
        services, reviewed the possibility for increase of productivity and decrease of operational cost. The
        Study was used at making number of analyses.

    (d) The Study on radio-dispatching system is not implemented since the credit line for that project was
        canceled.

    (e) Restructuring Study  not implemented




                                                     - 28 -

    (f) Study hasn't been completed yet

    (g) Training for assistance during restructuring process was implemented

3.    Difficulties and Learned Lessons

1.    The issue of procurement in lots - Since the specifications of the equipment and spare parts are
determined in advance in terms of from what world company are to be purchased due to strongly imposed 
guided technology of operation, procurement grouping in one "Lot" in the bidding documents is impossible.

Due to the above stated it is not feasable and not acceptable to request that one firm (trade) would represent
the interests for example of 3 (three) worldwide firms from 3 (three) states.
Our suggestion is to have more "Lots" so that the companies be able to submit their own, unique and at
lower price bids.

2.    When the competitive international bidding process is completed; contracts signed and terms of
delivery detailed with in advance agreed time schedule; the payment procedure as stipulated by an
international tender would have to be observed and complied to by the World Bank.
For example, we had extension of the delivery date of 3 (three) months (Voeste Alpine-Austia  rails
delivery case) only because we had to wait 20 days for the World Bank approval on remitting the funds.




                                                    - 29 -

- 30 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 29512
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                   l
                                                                l                                                 20                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                           22                                                                                                                                                                             l

                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                           l                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                     l                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                    l                                                                    l

                      Pljevlja                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOFIA                                                    l
                                                                          l                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                              l       l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                             l
                                                                                 l
BOSNIA AND                                                                                                                             Novi Pazar                                 l                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FORMER YUGOSLAV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                                                                              l

                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                              l
HERZEGOVINA                                                                                 F E D E R A L R E P U B L I C O F Y U G O S L AV I A
                                                                                   l                                                                                                    l                                                           l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                                                                                      l                                                                                                  l                                                      l                                                                                                                              l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                                                l     l
                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                     l  l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pernik               l   l

                                                                                           l                      ( S E R B I A / M O N T E N E G R O )                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                  Struma
                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRANSPORT SECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                      l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                            l
                Tara                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                                l

                                                                                         l                                                                                                               Kosovska
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B U L G A R I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                               l
           Zabljak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT
            v                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                        lMitrovica                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l l
                                                                                          l                                                                                                               l                       l                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                                                l  l         l
                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l         l                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                   l                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                        l                                                l   l

                                                                                      l                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                               l    l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                         Vranje                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                          l                                                                                          l                                                 l                                                                                              ROAD UPGRADING
                                                                         l                                                                                                                                                     l             l     Pristina                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bobovdol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v                                                                                             l                                                                                                  l                                                l              l
                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l   Morava                                                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l             l         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                          v                                                l                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l        l

             Piva       Savnik                                          l                              Ivangrad                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l    l                                                                                                                       l     v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l     l                                                                  l            Stanke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                    l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MOTORWAYS
                                                                       l     Tara                                                                             Beli                                                                                                                                     Bujanovac                                       l    Juzna                                                                                    l           l            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l      l                                                                   Dimitrov
                                                                          l                                                                                         Drim                                l  l   l                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                             l  l                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                           l                                                                                       l                    l           l                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                                       l                       Kyustendil
                                                                                                                                             Pec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAJOR ROADS
                                                                                                                                                     l  l  l                       l       l      l                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                      l  ll                                                                    l                                                                         l                                                                                                                                                                                                   l

                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gnjilane                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                       l                                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                                            Strumal
                                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l

                                                                    l                                                                                                      l                                                                                     l                                                          l
                                                                                                            Murino                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Morava                                                                                                                                          Gjuesevo                                                                  l

                                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                l
          Niksic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
               v                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                 l                                 v
                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                           OTHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                           l
                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Binacka                          l                                                                                                                                                                                                             l          l

                    l                                       l                                                                                                           l                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Urosevac   v                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                          Blagoevgrad l                                                 42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                     l                                        l
                       l                                                                                                                                                    l                                                                                               l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                   l   l   l

                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                            l                                  l                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l

                              l                             l                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                            Beljakovce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                           l                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                   RIVERS
                                l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                           l                                                                                                                         l    l                                                                                                                                            l                                           l                                                                                                                                                                                 l

                                 l                                                                                                                    Dakovica                               l                                                                                        l                                          ll                l                    l                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                   l                           l                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                         l         l
                                        l                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                 l                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kumanovo     l
                                            l                l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SELECTED CITIES
                                                l                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                   l                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                             Kocani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               v

                                                    l     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                       l        Prizren                                                                        l                                      l
                                                       l l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                      l                                                                                                            l    l
                               Podgoica                 l                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l    l               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                SKOPJE                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITALS
                               (Titograd)             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l             l         l      l                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                 l                l
                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l           l   l           l                                                                                                       l
                Cetinje                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                 l          l                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Berovo
                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                        l   l           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL
                                                  l                                                                           Drin                                                                                                                               l                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tetovo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l                                                             l                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                                  l
                                                l                                                                                                              Kuks                                                                                                 Vardar                                                                                                                                     l        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                    l                  l    l     v
                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                              l    l  Stip
                                          l                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                         Grupcin                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l        l                                                                                                                                                                                                         PORTS
                     Budva             l             Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l      l                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l                                                                                                                               l    l       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                         l           Scutari                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL
                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                        ll                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOUNDARIES
                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l   Titov Veles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                           l
                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F O R M E R Y U G O S L AV R E P U B L I C                                                                                l
                                           l                                                    Shkodr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                 Puk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                      l             l
                                               l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l   l
                                                Bar                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                 l
                                              l                                                                                                                                                                       Gostivar                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l                                     l       l     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l              l    ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                       Vardar                                                             Strumica
42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l l                      l                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l                    l                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                 l                                                Negotino                      l                                                                                                                             l  l
                                                                                                       Drin                  A L B A N I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                            l                                                                                                                     l                           This map was produced by the Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                            l   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l  l                                                                                                 l                                Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                                                                          l    l      l                                                                          l
                                                 Ulcinj                                                                                                               Peshkopi                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                             and any other information shown on
                                                                                             Shngjin         Lezh                                                                                                  Radika                                                                              O F M A C E D O N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                   l                                                                                                                                                     l                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                     Drin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                       this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                                                The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                            i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lKicevo                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                               Zi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                l                                                                                              on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                            any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                            Mat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                                                                                                                                         l                                         such boundaries.
                                                                                                              La                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  reka                                                 Gevgelija                                                                           l
                                                                                                                         l                            Burrel                                                                                                                                                                                                       l   Prilep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                      l                                 Mat                                                           Cr                                                                                                                                 l                                                     na                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                   ni                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sopotnica                                                                                            Cr                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                       Drin                                                                                   l             l       l  l                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l  l    l                           l
                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                      Adriatic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                                                                                      Polkastronl                       l                                                                          10   SWEDEN              20                   30
                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                          Botun                                                                                  na                                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                  LATVIA     RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l          reka                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DENMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Baltic
                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Axis           l                                                                     Sea           LITHUANIA
                            Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RUSSIAN

                                                                                                                        l     ll                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                               FED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                           BELARUS
                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                 l                              TIRAN                                                                                                                                                                                           l

                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                    Resen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                             NETH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G R E E C E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    POLAND
                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                 Durrs                                                                                               Librazhd                                                              Ohrid                                                                       l
                                                                                                          l                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                                            Yiannits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                                  GERMANY
                                                                                                            l                                                                                  l      l                                                                                                               Bitola
                                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                             50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                         50
                                                                                                               l                                                                            l               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cafasan                                     Lake                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                    l             LUX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l   l  l                                                                                                 l     l       l                           CZECH                                     UKRAINE
                                                                                                                l                                                                        l                    l                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                     l             l   l                                                                                   l                                                  REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                      Ohrid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                           l                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                  l                                          Elbasan                l                               l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                      Lake                                                                                      l                                      l                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                l         dhessa                                                                                l
                                                                                                                    l      Kavaj                                                                               Prenjas                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                                                                                                                        FRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                   l           l                                                                                                               Prespa                                                                                       l                                      l                                     l                                                                                                                                                SLOVAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                  l                                                                                                            MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                           l                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                              l            Alexndria                                  l l                                                   SWITZ.         AUSTRIA
                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HUNGARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                    l
                                                                                                                                l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l l  l  l                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROMANIA
                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                                                                                              Flrina                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                                                 SLOVENIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l            l                                                                                        l                           l                                                                     CROATIA
                                                                                                                                 l                     l         Crrik                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                    l l l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                            l        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                              l
                                                                                                                                     l         l  l                                                                      Pogradec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOSNIA AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l   ll                                                              l                        l                                                                                                                      FED. REP.                 Black
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                                     l                                                           l                                                        Adriatic   HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                           OF                      Sea
                                                                                                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l Amndaion                                                                                                                                                                                                    YUGOSLAVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l            l                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SERB/MONT.
                                                                                                                                         l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l                                                                           l                                                                l                                    ITALY                                      BULGARIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l
    0    10     20      30       40          50            60               70              80 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                           l   Lushnj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                                 Vria                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                            MACEDONIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                                           AREA OF MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                          l                                                    ALBANIA                         40
    0        10            20              30                     40                        50 MILES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              40          Tyrrhenian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea                               GREECE     Aegean         30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                           l                                                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                             20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                 22                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10                                 20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOVEMBER 1998

