Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4439 MK
Project Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FUND FOR NATIONAL AND REGIONAL ROADS
Dated May 24, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4439 MK 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FUND FOR NATIONAL AND REGIONAL ROADS (“FNRR”). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and 
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to 
twenty seven million Euro (Euro 27,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that FNRR agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and FNRR, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
(in an amount equal to seventeen million Euro (Euro 17,000,000)) will be made 
available to FNRR on the terms and conditions set forth in the FNRR Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS FNRR, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) FNRR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and FNRR shall otherwise agree, FNRR shall carry out Parts A, 
B, C and D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Plan.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.03. FNRR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project. 
Section 2.04. FNRR shall duly perform all its obligations under the FNRR 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FNRR shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the FNRR Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) FNRR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the FNRR Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
FNRR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by FNRR of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the FNRR Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.06. FNRR shall submit to the Bank by September 15 in each year, 
commencing September 15, 2000, and until completion of the Project, a road maintenance 
program for the following year based on the results of the Pavement Management System. 
Section 2.07. FNRR shall select road sections for the testing of low maintenance 
technologies under the Pavement Management System on the basis of economic criteria 
and a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, including, for each such road section, an 
expected overall economic rate of return of at least twenty percent (20%).
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of FNRR 
Section 3.01. FNRR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, technical and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. FNRR shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, technical and environmental practices. 
Section 3.03. FNRR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) FNRR shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately 
the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out 
of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
(b)
FNRR shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited and (B) an opinion 
on such statements and a report of such audit by 
said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. By June 30, 1999, FNRR shall appoint auditors, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the purpose of carrying out the audits required under the Project.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FNRR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify FNRR thereof. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  4
  For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For FNRR:
Fund for National and Regional Roads 
Dame Gruev 14 91000 
Skopje
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FNRR may be 
taken or executed by the Director or such other person or persons as the Director 
shall designate in writing, and FNRR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn 
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
FUND FOR NATIONAL AND REGIONAL ROADS
By /s/ Ljubica Acevska 
Authorized Representative
