Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4439 MK
Loan Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(The Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(The Bank)
Dated May 24, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4439 MK 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1999, between the BORROWER and the BANK. 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by the Fund for 
National and Regional Roads (FNRR) with the Borrower’s assistance and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for 
in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to FNRR, as set forth in this 
Agreement;
(C)
Parts E and F of the Project will be carried out by Macedonian Railways 
(MR) with the Borrower’s assistance and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan available to MR, as set forth in this 
Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Action Plan for Railway Restructuring” means the Borrower’s action plan 
for railway restructuring dated November 6, 1998, as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(b)
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union; 
(c)
“FNRR” each means the Fund for National and Regional Roads established as 
a public entity on June 6, 1996 pursuant to the Borrower’s Law for Public Roads;
(d)
“FNRR Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and FNRR of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the FNRR Project Agreement;
(e)
“FNRR Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FNRR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
FNRR Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)
“Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan dated April 
30, 1998, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(g)
“MR” means Macedonian Railways, established as a public enterprise by the 
Borrower’s Decision No. 21-4064/1 on November 22, 1989; 
(h)
“MR Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and MR of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the MR Project Agreement; 
(i)
“MR Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and MR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the MR 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j)
“Pavement Management System” means the pavement management system 
established in the FNRR for the purpose of evaluating alternative maintenance 
interventions;
(k) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit to be established within FNRR 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Project Agreement” means, collectively, the FNRR Project Agreement and 
the MR Project Agreement; 
(m)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(n)
“Steering Committee” means the steering committee to be established by 
the Borrower for Parts E and F of the Project pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement; and 
(o)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means, collectively, the FNRR Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the MR Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
seven million Euro (Euro 27,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euro special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Euro for value 
the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iii)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
Page  4
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June  
15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause each of FNRR and MR to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of their respective Project Agreements all the 
obligations of FNRR and MR  therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable FNRR and MR to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to: (i) Categories (1), (3) and (4) of the table in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement to FNRR under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and FNRR (the FNRR Subsidiary Loan Agreement); and (ii) Categories (2) 
and (5) of the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to MR under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MR (the MR Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement).
(c)
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include the following principal 
terms and conditions: (i) each Subsidiary Loan to FNRR and MR shall be denominated in 
Euro and shall be repayable in twenty years, including a five-year grace period; (ii) 
FNRR and MR shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan at a 
rate per annum equal to the rate specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and 
(iii) the principal of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by FNRR and MR, respectively, 
shall be equivalent, in Euro, to the value of currency or currencies withdrawn from 
the Loan Account on account of expenditures under the Project, such equivalence to be 
determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall cause: (i) the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
Implementation Plan; (ii) FNRR to maintain the Project Coordination Unit with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and with staff whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank, to 
coordinate the carrying out of activities under the Project. Section 3.02. Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the PCU to: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
Page  5
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), in respect of Parts A, B, C 
and D of the Project, shall be carried out by FNRR and, in respect of Parts E and F of 
the Project, shall be carried out by MR, pursuant to Section 2.03 of each Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the PCU to: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 1, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through the PCU, shall submit to the Bank by June 15 
and December 15 in each year during Project implementation: 
(i)
a progress report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of 
this Agreement; and 
(ii)
a workplan for implementation of the Project for the next six 
month period.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) implement, and shall cause MR to 
implement, the Action Plan for Railway Restructuring with due diligence and efficiency 
and in a manner designed to achieve the objectives thereof; and (b) maintain the 
Steering Committee with functions, responsibilities and composition acceptable to the 
Bank to coordinate implementation of the Action Plan for Railway Restructuring. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Action Plan for Railway 
Restructuring shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 120 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the PCU has been established and staff appointed with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;  
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and each of FNRR and MR;   
(c)
the Steering Committee has been established by the Borrower with 
representatives from the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport and 
Communication and MR; and 
(d)
a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank has been 
developed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the respective Project Agreements have been duly authorized or 
ratified by FNRR and MR and are legally binding upon FNRR and MR in accordance with 
their terms; and  
Page  7
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon the said parties in accordance 
with their terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BORROWER
By /s/ Ljubica Acevska
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
   Amount of the
   % of
  Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Euro)
to be financed
(1)
Civil works for Parts
   13,090,000
65%
A and B of the Loan
(2)
Equipment, goods
    8,700,000
100% of foreign
and spare parts for
expenditures, 100%
Part E of the Project
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Equipment for Part D
      980,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)
Consultants' services
      520,000
100%
and training under
Parts A, B and C of
the Project
(5)
Consultants' services
      360,000
100%
and training under
Parts E and F of the
Project
(6)
Fee
      270,000
Amount due under
Section 2. 04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated for
(a) Parts A, B, C and
    2,220,000
D of the Project
(b) Parts E and F of
      860,000
the Project
TOTAL
   27,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term  “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount 
equal to Euro 2,700,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
Page  9
before that date but after April 30, 1998; and (b) payments made for expenditures 
under Category (2), until consultants, satisfactory to the Bank shall have been 
appointed to assist the Borrower in implementing the Action Plan for Railway 
Restructuring.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (i) works under contracts costing 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent; (iii) services under contracts with consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services and training under contracts with 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of the road and 
railway transport systems.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of the Tetovo-Grupcin Highway
Carrying out of civil works to widen about 15 kilometers of the highway from 
Tetovo to Grupcin.
Part B:
Pilot Road Maintenance 
Carrying out of civil works and provision of technical assistance for carrying 
out pilot projects to test alternative options for road maintenance.
Part C:
Technical Assistance and Training to FNRR
Provision of technical assistance and training to FNRR to: (i) improve road 
investment planning; (ii) design and implement a bridge management system; and (iii)  
carry out a study on the adequacy of road user charges and develop a methodology for 
the future monitoring of user charges.
Part D:
Equipment for FNRR
Provision of equipment to FNRR to gather data on road conditions in order to 
improve the accuracy of the Pavement Management System.
Part E:
Equipment for Macedonian Railways
Provision of equipment to MR to upgrade its communications system including 
completion of a centralized traffic control system; provision of a radio dispatcher 
system for the rail network; and provision of an informatics system for MR.
Part F:
Restructuring Macedonian Railways
Provision of technical assistance and training to assist in the implementation 
of the Action Plan for Railway Restructuring including: (i) improving the 
organization, management, planning, financial controls and accountability of the 
railways; and (ii) conducting a management training program in working methods and 
marketing principles.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  10
      Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
      (expressed in Euro)*
June 15, 2004
   670,000 
December 15, 2004
   685,000 
June 15, 2005
   700,000 
December 15, 2005
   710,000 
June 15, 2006
   725,000 
December 15, 2006
   740,000 
June 15, 2007
   755,000 
December 15, 2007
   770,000 
June 15, 2008
   785,000 
December 15, 2008
   800,000 
June 15, 2009
   815,000 
December 15, 2009
   830,000 
June 15, 2010
   845,000 
December 15, 2010
   860,000 
June 15, 2011
   880,000 
December 15, 2011
   895,000 
June 15, 2012
   915,000 
December 15, 2012
   930,000 
June 15, 2013
   950,000 
December 15, 2013
   970,000 
June 15, 2014
   985,000 
December 15, 2014
 1,005,000 
June 15, 2015
 1,025,000 
December 15, 2015
 1,045,000 
June 15, 2016
 1,065,000 
December 15, 2016
 1,085,000 
June 15, 2017
 1,110,000 
December 15, 2017
 1,130,000 
June 15, 2018
 1,150,000 
December 15, 2018
 1,170,000
TOTAL
              27,000,000
___________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Euro to be repaid, except as 
provided in 
Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
Page  11
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Pre-qualification 
Bidders for works estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more per contract 
shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Equipment, goods and spare parts estimated to cost less than $200,000  
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review  
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part B of this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 
or more for works and $200,000 or more for goods, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January and September 
1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Page  12
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the training of FNRR and MR staff may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts 
A, B, C and D of the Project and Categories (2) and (5) set forth in said table in 
respect of Parts E and F of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to Euro 
1,400,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project and 
an amount equivalent to Euro 900,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts E and 
F thereof, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to Euro 700,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts A, B, C 
and D of the Project and an amount equivalent to Euro 400,000 in respect of the 
Page  13
Special Account for Parts E and F thereof, until: (i) in respect of the Special 
Account for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1), (3) and (4) plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of Euro 3,000,000; and (ii) in respect of the Special 
Account for Parts E and F of the Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account allocated to Categories (2) and (5) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions for Parts E and F of the Project shall be equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of  Euro 2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  14
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
