Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25496-IRN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
February 26, 2003
Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 14, 2003)
Currency Unit = Iranian Rial (Rls)
US$1 = Rls 7,980
FISCAL YEAR
Iranian Fiscal Year - March 20 - March 21
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA           Analytical & Advisory Activity
APL           Adaptable Lending Program
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEA           Country Environmental Analysis
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
CQ            Consultant Qualification
DALY          Disability Adjusted Life Year
DO            Development Objective
DOE           Department of Environment
EA            Environmental Assessment
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EIMS          Environmental Information Management System
EMSP          Environmental Management Support Project
EOI           Expression of Interest
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
EU            European Union
FAO           Food & Agriculture Organization
FC            Financial Controller
FM            Financial Management
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
FMS           Financial Management Specialist
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
FY            Fiscal Year
FYDP          Five-Year Development Plan
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GIP           Green Industry Program
GNI           Gross National Income
GOI           Government of Iran
GPN           General Procurement Notice
LAESR         Institute for Applied Environmental Science and Research
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC           Individual Consultant
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IFC           International Finance Corporation
1MF           International Monetary Fund



IP           Implementation Progress
IRI           Islamic Republic of Iran
JICA          Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KDOE          Khuzestan Department of Environment
KWPA          Karoon Water and Power Authority
LCS           Least-Cost Selection
METAP         Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MNA           Middle East and North Africa
MOEAF         Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOI           Ministry of Interior
MPO           Management and Planning Organization
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NEC           National Expert Committee
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
OP            Operational Policy
PA            Project Account
PCT           Project Coordination Team
PFS           Project Financial Statement
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMU           Project Management Unit
QBS           Quality Based Selection
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
RFP          Request for Proposal
Rls          Iranian Rials
SA           Special Account
SAC           Supreme Audit Court
SC            Steering Committee
SOE          Statement of Expenses
SPN           Specific Procurement Notice
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
TSP           Total Suspended Particulate
UNDB         United Nations Development Business
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
WBI          World Bank Institute
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Joseph P. Saba
Sector Director:  Letitia A. Obeng
Sector Manager:   M. Salah Darghouth
Task Team Leader:    Kanthan Shankar






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                         2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                4
C. Project Description Summary
1: Project components                                                                5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     6
3. Benefits and target population                                                    7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                     13
E. Summnary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        14
3. Technical                                                                        15
4. Institutional                                                                    15
5. Environmental                                                                    17
6. Social                                                                           17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               19



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  19
2. Critical risks                                                                  20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  20
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         21
2. Other                                                                           21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  39
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 40
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  56
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                57
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               58
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          59
Pictures
MAP(S)
IBRD 32128



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Date: February 26, 2003                           Team Leader: Kanthan Shankar
Sector Manager: M. Salah Darghouth                Sector(s): Central government administration (75%),
Country Manager/Director: Joseph P. Saba          General public administration sector (25%)
Project ID: P074499                               Theme(s): Environmental policies and institutions (P)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
iP,rojet}FinicngData  >   -;- - > d;--- , ' S' j- .,.  , e .'.:->.
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [] Grant    [ Guarantee      [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 20.
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: l Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                         Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%                           Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
l~jnancing ,lanm(US ):  S.--ource- . .               -   - ; Locgn t                 .
BORROWER                                                       1.40           0.70          2.10
IBRD                                                           4.10          15.90         20.00
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS                              0.00           0.90          0.90
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                            -            5.50          17.50         23.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC IRAN
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
Responsible agency: THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT (DOE)
Address: Pardisan Ecological Park, Shahid Hemat Highway, Tehran - Iran
Contact Person: Dr. Yousef Hojjat, Vice Head of Department.
Tel: 9821 8267991           Fax: 9821 8267990            Email: Y_Hojjat@irandoe.org
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
-_j; '¢. 2004.s. -. J      2005     'I' 6a6 _   2007   |    0O°      2 09   -  '      ;    -
Annual      2.00      3.00       5.00       5.00      4.00       1.00
Cumulative     2.00       5.00     10.00      15.00      19.00     20.00
Project implementation period: June 2003 to June 2008
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project will form the first phase of a long-term effort by the Government of Iran (GOI) to
improve environmental management in the country. The project's main objective is to enhance the
capacity of the Department of Environment (DOE) in monitoring air and water quality. This will be
realized through pilot targeted interventions in five provinces: Tehran, Isfahan, Khorasan, Markazi and
Khuzestan. The interventions in Tehran, Isfahan, Khorasan, and Markazi will focus on air quality and
those in Khuzestan will target water quality. Based on lessons learned from the project, it is expected that
these interventions will be scaled up through a programmatic approach to include more provinces.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project outcome indicators are: (i) development of joint interministerial strategies and investment
programs to reduce the impacts of air and water pollution; (ii) availability of timely and accurate
information to the public on air and water quality and (iii) beneficiary surveys that show increased
understanding by stakeholders and the public of the DOE's role in protecting public health and
well-being.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22050 IRN Date of latest CAS discussion: April 16, 2001
As part of the Bank's recent re-engagement with the Government of Iran, a two-year Interim CAS was
presented to the Board in April 2001. A full-fledged CAS is expected by FY04. The interim CAS places
emphasis on two issues: (i) policy dialogue on the reform program through non-lending services; and (ii)
targeted lending in social and environmental areas. The lending during this interim period will focus on
priority areas such as low income housing, environmental mitigation, community-based infrastructure
and employment generation schemes. Considering the priority given to the country's environmental
problems, the interim strategy commits the Bank to assist the Government through a series of projects
and advisory services to cumulatively strengthen the capacity of environmental agencies in monitoring
and enforcement activities. This Environmental Management Support Project (EMSP) is the first in a
series of interventions proposed under the Interim CAS. This sector strategy and the proposed project
also respond to the new MNA regional strategy that stresses the importance of good governance and
places greater emphasis on institutional building and knowledge transfer.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Increasing population density in urban areas and expanding industrial production, especially in the oil
and gas sectors, are putting pressure on the country's environment. Specifically, air and water pollution
constitute the most serious environmental problems, threatening public health and the country's long-term
economic prospects. These environmental issues are summarized below. They are based on the
Environmental Strategy Report prepared by the Government, UNDP and the World Bank in 1995; an
NGO survey conducted in 2000; and the National Report on Sustainable Development presented at the
Johannesburg Conference on Sustainable Development in 2002.
Main Environmental Challenges: Air pollution in major cities such as Tehran, Mashhad, Isfahan, Tabriz,
and Ahwaz is a serious environmental problem and it exceeds the World Health Organization's (WHO)
guidelines and maximum allowable limits by 40 percent to 340 percent. In Tehran alone, the aging
transport sector, heavy industries (e.g. oil, cement and chemical plants) and small and medium
-2 -



enterprises add about 1.5 million tons of pollutants to the air annually. Motor vehicles are a significant
contributor to air pollution. Schools are frequently closed and residents are asked to remain indoors due
to the health risks of heavy air pollution. Notably, as recently as November 21 of 2002, residents of
Tehran were asked to stay indoors as air pollution, particularly carbon monoxide concentrationls, had
reached emergency levels. In addition to the transport sector, industries in the country emit annually
more than 450,000 tons of sulfur dioxide and 100,000 tons of total suspended particulates (TSP).
Respiratory ailments and allergies related to air pollution affect about 20 percent of the population,
children in particular. In Tehran, recent studies have shown that high levels of PM-10 could be
responsible for an average of 52 cases of cancer and 62 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants every year.
In addition, the quality of rivers and groundwater is deteriorating. The water quality of the Karoon river,
which represents 30 percent of the entire surface water resources of the country, has been deteriorating at
an alarming rate due to the discharge of untreated municipal wastewater (152 million m3/yr), agricultural
drainage (2 billion m3/yr), and untreated industrial effluents (200 million m3/yr). Poor water quality has
important implications for human health, especially young children. According to the Ministry of Health
in Khuzestan province, diarrhea illnesses account for more than 90 percent of children's diseases and 15
percent of under five mortality. In addition to the impact on human health, substantial incremental costs
are required to treat water and to transport cleaner water from distant sources.
Government Strategy: Environmental protection is embedded in the country's constitution. Article 50
explicitly states that protection of the environment is a public duty and prohibits economic activities'that
pollute or cause other environmental damage. The current overall development priorities and approach
are outlined in the Third Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP) (2001-2005) approved by parliament in
2000. The plan aims at a 6 percent annual growth rate during the period which will enable the
government to address social development and equity issues by raising living standards and reducing
unemployment. It also envisages a wide range of structural reforms aimed at a balanced and gradual
transition to a market economy. Most importantly, the plan places priority on reducing pollution and
preserving the country's natural and cultural resources (reference: articles 17, 61, 104 and 121).
Specifically, it obligates the Govermment to reduce air pollution in the cities of Tehran, Mashhad, Tabriz,
Ahwaz, Arak, Shiraz and Isfahan to WHO standards. In accordance with the FYDP, these cities -are
finalizing their air pollution reduction strategies. Detailed air pollution reduction strategies for Tehran
and Isfahan have already been completed. Under Tehran's strategy, the aim is to reduce air pollutants by
190,000 tons every year for the next 10 years. This strategy requires intensive collaboration between
several ministries and it assigns the DOE the main responsibility of program monitoring.. It also
recognizes the necessity of undertaking training and outreach programs to combat air pollution.
Government Institutions and Environmental Management: The Department of Environment is
responsible for ensuring the implementation of environmental policies and laws and monitoring the state
of the environment. The Government considers environmental issues a national priority. This is reflected
in the institutional structure for environmental management. The Supreme Council on Environmental
Protection is responsible for policy-making and intersectoral coordination and is' composed of the
Ministers of Jehad-Agriculture; Industry and Mines; the Interior; Housing and Urban Development; and
Health and Medical Education; the Heads of the Management and Planning Organization, the
Department of Environment and four experts recommended by the President of the Islamic Republic of
Iran are also included. The Supreme Council on Environmental Protection is chaired by the President of
Iran. The DOE is the regulatory agency in charge of formulating environmental policies, by-laws,
regulations and standards for consideration by the Environmental High Council and other government
bodies. It is expected to work with a range of line ministries at national and provincial levels and to assist
them in developing policies, standards and plans. The DOE is responsible for research, environmental
-3 -



planning, monitoring, and enforcement. The DOE also manages projects on national parks and protected
areas and species and it serves as the national and regional focal point for many international and
regional agreements. In addition, the DOE is tasked with leading environment-related public awareness
and training efforts. Responsibility for the management of natural resources and the implementation of
environmental policies rests with the line ministries represented in the High Council, such as the Ministry
of Jehad-Agriculture, responsible for rangeland and 90 percent of the forests; and the Ministry of Energy,
responsible for water resources management and supply.
Inadequate monitoring and limited enforcement capacity, however, are seriously undermining the DOE's
ability to protect public health and natural resources. Additionally, regulatory command and control have
inhibited the development of incentive-based systems such as tax breaks and other economic incentives.
The country's National Report on Sustainable Development outlines several areas of weakness in current
environmental management: (i) poorly enforced environmental laws; (ii) lack of public interest in
environmental issues; (iii) limited integration of environmental issues into national development policies;
(iv) absence of reliable environmental data; and (v) insufficient training on environmental issues and
outdated curriculum. Although the DOE has done very good work on programs such as the Tehran Air
Pollution Reduction Action Plan, it has not managed to communicate its successes to other stakeholders
and the public. As a result, it suffers from relatively low credibility. Hence, the Government is keen to
strengthen the DOE's capacity to monitor and improve compliance, especially for air and water issues. It
also seeks to improve its ability to coordinate among government and non-government actors on
environmental issues. Accordingly, the Government has requested the Bank to assist in this endeavor
through a combination of non-lending technical assistance and investments. This proposed project is the
first intervention designed in response to this request.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Experience in environmental technical assistance projects similar to this proposed project has shown that
broad-based and untargeted environmental capacity-building initiatives have yielded less than
satisfactory results. Furthermore, past Bank-funded projects (as in Morocco) have also shown that
stand-alone technical assistance to environmental institutions do not work. Hence, under the proposed
project, the client and the Bank have agreed to pilot targeted interventions which can be scaled up based
on lessons learned. The pilot interventions will be sectoral (air and water quality management) in specific
geographical areas (the cities of Tehran, Isfahan, Mashhad and Arak for air quality monitoring and on the
Karoon River Basin for water quality monitoring). Lessons will be derived for building better monitoring
systems, establishing regulatory frameworks, enforcing environmental regulations, and establishing
partnerships with environmental stakeholders.
The concurrent preparation of several other Bank-financed projects in Iran provides a unique opportunity
to strengthen the intersectoral performance of the DOE through linkages. These include the following
proposed projects: Tehran Solid Waste Management, Integrated Water and Land Management, Low
Income Housing, Water and Wastewater, and the Social Fund Project. These projects have significant
natural resource and environmental implications, thus providing the opportunity for the DOE to build
partnerships with sector ministries at the national, provincial and local levels and leverage opportunities
for improved environmental management. For example: development of a hazardous waste strategy is a
high priority for the DOE and an integral part of the department's mandate. This component was initially
proposed under this project, but it has now been incorporated into the proposed Tehran Solid Waste
Management Project. Similarly, the DOE is benefiting from training programs provided through the
Water and Wastewater Project. The mid-term review of the EMSP is envisaged as a significant learning
event where the interaction of the DOE with several layers of institutions and various sectors can be
analyzed and forward strategic direction agreed upon.
-4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project' components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1 - Strengthening institutional capacity to monitor air and water quality. Capacity
building for provincial DOE offices in Tehran, Isfahan, Khorasan, Markazi to monitor air quality and
Khuzestan to monitor water quality will be supported by:
(i) Mainstreaming environment into sector policies and programs. This subcomponent will be mainly
non-lending technical assistance and will include analytical studies such as the costs of environmental
degradation, the ongoing environmental energy review, industrial air and waste water pollution and a
country environmental analysis.
(ii) Improving the legal and institutional framework governing air and water quality management. This
will include diagnostic assessments and updating of the institutional and legal frameworks consistent
with standard. international practices. This component will also fund studies on the development of
economic incentives.
(iii) Strengthening the capacity of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) unit: The
recommendations of the METAP report on strengthening the EIA system will be implemented.
Specifically, EIA information within the central and provincial offices will be consolidated. EIA units in
the provincial DOE offices of Mashhad and Isfahan will be established.
(iv) Establishing an environmental management information system. The two pilot provincial
directorates and the DOE's Tehran headquarters will be connected through a shared and consolidated
electronic information network. Furthermore, the subcomponent will build DOE capacity to analyze data
collected and that will provide information for sound decision-making.
(v) Supplying air and water quality monitoring equipment. This subcomponent will finance about 49 air
quality monitoring stations for the provinces of Tehran, Mashhad, Markazi and Khorasan and about 24
water quality monitoring stations on the Karoon river.
Component 2 - Building partnership through pilot environmental projects This component will
strengthen the DOE's partnerships with line ministries, municipalities, universities and civil society
organizations by financing joint pilot environmental subprojects in the provinces of Tehran, Isfahan,
Khorasan, Markazi and Khuzestan on a demand driven basis. The subprojects will focus on activities
related to air and water quality management. (Examples of potential subprojects are described in Annex
2).
Component 3 - Training and public awareness programs to improve air and water quality.
Strengthening environmental training in air and water quality: The proposed project will support the
Institute for Applied Environmental Science and Research (IAESR) within the DOE in developing
curricula for air and water management programs. Courses and training programs will be offered by the
LAESR in Tehran and through a partnership with national and international universities and research
institutions in the pilot provinces. The programs will be designed to (i) improve the performance of
public sector personnel and NGOs involved in the management of water and air quality activities
(through short and focused workshops and seminars) and (ii) provide technical and applied two-year
degree programs for students with a high school diploma. It will also finance the purchase of equipment
for the institute, upgrade an air and water laboratory, and construct a girls' dormitory near the training
center.
Furthermore, the World Bank Institute (WBI) will be conducting training programs to strengthen the
capacity of DOE professionals to interpret, evaluate and present air and water quality monitoring data.
-5 -



WBI will help support the delivery of activities in a number of thematic areas, namely: air and water data
analysis and quality control, air and water pollution impact assessment and economic valuation, priority
setting for environmental management, policy instruments for environmental management, and working
with the media. Training activities will be using 'best practice' from around the world to illustrate
real-world experiences with the implementation of environmental policies and the application of tools.
Annual meetings, involving a number of local and national agencies and training institutions will be held
to define the specific training needs, plan activities and evaluate the program.
Undertaking environmental public awareness programs: this subcomponent will strengthen the DOE's
capacity to undertake public awareness campaigns on air and water quality issues. The activities will
focus on (i) informing the public on air and water pollution; (ii) improving understanding of the potential
consequences of air and water pollution on health and the natural environment; and (iii) encouraging
mitigating behaviors. Activities financed under this sub-component include the development of an
outreach strategy and preparation of tv clips, radio programs and mass publications. Survey to evaluate
the knowledge and behavioral changes of respondents will also be undertaken to monitor the
effectiveness of the outreach program.
Component 4 - Project management and coordination: This component will finance the incremental
operating costs of the Project Coordination Team (PCT) within the DOE, including office equipment,
technology, supplies and activities to implement and monitor the project. The project team will be
responsible for procurement and the management of project funds, therefore they will be trained in
project management, procurement and financial management. Training will also be extended to selected
DOE staff in the five provinces. This component will also finance the preparation of a follow-up
environmental project.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
..Component                       Costs     % of  . financing   Bank-
:-              *- :   - .     .      .....   . -  .   . ...........(US$M)  Total  (USSM)  financing
1. Strengthening institutional capacity to monitor air and  13.40  58.3  11.80     59.0
water
2. Building partnership through pilot environmental  2.50       10.9      2.40      12.0
projects
3. Training and public awareness programs to improve air  3.80  16.5      2.80      14.0
and water quality
4. Project management and coordination                1.40      6.1       1.10       5.5
5. Contingencies                                      1.70      7.4       1.70       8.5
Total Project Costs  22.80    99.1      19.80      99.0
Front-end fee   0.20       0.9      0.20        1.0
Total Financing Required   23.00     100.0     20.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key reforms sought during the implementation of the proposed project include the following:
(i) DOE promotes market-based incentives to complement existing laws and regulations governing air
and water pollution.
-6 -



(ii) DOE moves from being a command and control agency to a "knowledge sharing" agency through
management and dissemination of environmental information to all stakeholders including civil
society. Furthermore, DOE acts as a catalyst for information exchange and partnerships between the
private/public sector and civil society stakeholders.
(iii) DOE increases responsibilities and accountabilities of provincial offices (Isfahan, Khorasan, Markazi
dand. Khuzestan) in managing water and air quality monitoring and ensuring compliance.
(iv) DOE increases partnerships and coordination with line ministries, local governments, NGOs and the
pnvate sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
(i)  The DOE will be better equipped and trained to monitor air pollution in the provinces of Tehran,
Isfahan, Markazi, and Khorasan and it will be better able to monitor water pollution in the Karoon
River Basin; Citizens and key decision-makers in these cities will be given access to this data that
should provide more reliable information about the levels of air and water pollution than that
currently available.
(ii)  The environmental awareness program will better inform the public at large about air and water
pollution issues, improve its understanding of the potential consequences of air and water pollution
on human health and the natural environment, and encourage mitigation behavior.
(iii) The project will help the Government make progress on commitments made in the third Five-Year
Plan, specifically Article 104 which calls for strengthening public institutions responsible for
monitoring and enforcing environmental regulations to reduce pollution levels.
(iv) With increased autonomy and the capacity to collect and analyze data, provincial DOE offices
should be better able to respond to pollution problems.
(v)  Through joint project activities, the DOE, including provincial offices, will be able to strengthen
their partnerships and improve coordination with line ministries.
(vi) Through joint pilot environment projects, municipalities will enhance their capacity to respond to
public demands for attention to air and water pollution.
(vii) NGOs will play an increased role in air and water quality management and monitoring.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be managed by a Project Coordination Team (PCT) under the overall guidance of
the Head of the DOE. The PCT will consist of a project coordinator, a liaison officer, two air
pollution specialists, two water pollution specialists, a financial specialist, a procurement specialist
and an administrative assistant, all deputed from the DOE. Each of the DOE departments benefiting
from the capacity-building initiative will have a counterpart team headed by a departmental head who
will work closely with the Project Coordination Team. More specifically, the project team will be
responsible for the following tasks:
*   Hiring local experts to assist in the development of Terms of Reference for project studies.
*   Supervising consulting teams preparing assessments, studies and training.
*   Coordinating work within the various DOE departments and the provincial offices of
Tehran, Isfahan, Khorasan, Markazi and Khuzestan.
*   Interacting with sector ministries for supervising joint activities.
*   Coordinating with donors, civil society and community representatives to promote and
strengthen partnerships.
*   Monitoring the Project Implementation Plan, preparing progress reports including financial
and management reports.
*   Facilitating the advisory role of the National Expert Comrnmittee and Steering Committees.
-7-



To further the decentralization agenda, the provincial DOE offices in Tehran, Isfahan, Khuzestan,
Markazi and Khorasan will be responsible for implementing the capacity-building components.
Hence, project teams mirroring the structures to be established at DOE headquarters will be
established.
Expert Committees: These committees will be created to serve as advisory bodies on project
implementation to the PCT. The project will have a National Expert Committee, chaired by the
Deputy Head of Department for Human Environment in DOE and composed of the provincial heads
of the DOE and representatives from relevant line ministries including representatives from the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, the Management and Planning Organization (MPO),
Ministry of Jehad-Agriculture, Ministry of Energy and Mines. The private sector, civil society and
local councils are also represented. Provincial-level Steering Committees will also be organized to
mirror the National Expert Committee.
Procurement: All procurement will be carried out by the PCT. A procurement advisor will be hired to
establish the project's procurement operations, and provide support to the PCT to implement the
project's procurement activities including preparation of the bidding documents, request for proposals,
evaluation reports, draft contracts, and annual procurement plans. Individual consultants will be recruited
as necessary to assist the PCT in the preparation of technical specifications and support in technical
evaluation of bids.
A detailed procurement plan has been prepared and agreed with the client (on file). Under each of the
components   procurement packages have been designed. Under component 1 - Strengthening
Institutional Capacities in Air and Water Quality Monitoring - 4 main contracts will be awarded. They
include the following: (i) consultancy services for institutional strengthening and policy development, (ii)
procurement of air quality monitoring stations, (iii) procurement of water quality monitoring stations, and
(iv) communication and knowledge management strategy and the supply of equipment needed to improve
data collection and analysis. Component 2 - Pilot Environmental Projects - will be demand driven and as
such procurement packages will be prepared after subproject identification and approval. Component 3 -
Environmental Training and Public Awareness - will consist of the following main packages (i)
production and printing of environmental publications (ii) rehabilitation of IAESR dormitories and
supply of furniture and laboratory equipment for the training facility. Component 4 - Project
Management and Coordination - will include the following procurement activities (i) consultancies on
advisory, monitoring and evaluation services (b) the purchase of vehicles, office equipment, and
financing the project's incremental operating costs.
Financial Management (See Annex 6.B)
The project was approved by the Govemment's Economic Council and has been included in the
Development Budget (the National Budget consists of the Current Budget and the Development Budget)
for Iranian fiscal year 1382 (March 21, 2003 to March 20, 2004). The project will be implemented in line
with the laws and regulations governing the execution and control of public expenditure. They are strictly
enforced by the MOEAF and the Supreme Audit Court of Iran. Financial management operations and
functions are carried out solely at the center in Tehran. The PCT has overall responsibility for all of the
project's financial management matters. The PCT has been established and a financial management
specialist (FMS) has already been appointed. The financial management function is divided between the
FC (Financial Controller) of the MOEAF (Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance) 'assigned to and
located at the DOE and the PCT that is responsible for project coordination and management activities.
The FC is responsible for overall financial management of the DOE and is a signatory on all bank
accounts that the FC is responsible for opening in the name of the DOE, including the project's local and
- 8 -



foreign currency accounts. The functions of the FC include commnitment for expenditures, payment
approval, actual payment, and financial reporting in line with the requirements for all public
expenditures, including this project.
The PCT/FMS also carries out accounting and financial reporting functions to provide the information
required by the Bank in a regular, complete and timely manner. The financial management activities of
the PCT are coordinated and integrated within the existing structures of the DOE. The PCT/FMS is
responsible for the preparation of annual budgets, general accounting and supplementary reporting
required by the Bank. These responsibilities require the PCT/FMS to prepare budgets, initiate
expenditures, effect the expenditures, note receipt of goods and services, complete expenditure forms and
vouchers for transactions, record keeping, verify supporting documents, prepare bank reconciliation
statements, monitor the Special Account (SA) and Project Account (PA), and prepare periodic reports
and financial statements for submission to the Bank and the DOE. The Head of the Department or a
designated authority would be one of the two signatories on the SA and PA, the FC would be the other.
The FC and the FMS will coordinate all information flows and documentation for financial management
and reporting purposes. A regular (at least monthly) reconciliation between the accounting records of the
FC relating to the execution of the Development Budget at the DOE and the project records kept by the
FMS will be carried out by the FMS. The financial management procedures, reporting requirements, and
format for the aforementioned reconciliation statements are described in detail in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM).
The PCT will be also responsible for the preparation of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
and the annual Project Financial Statements (PFSs). The fiscal year in Iran starts on March 22 of each
Gregorian calendar year, and ends on March 21 the following year. Similarly, the end of each quarter of
the year falls on the 21st of the related month in the Gregorian calendar, e.g. June 21, September 21, and
December 21. The content of the FMR has already been discussed and agreed during negotiations. The
FMR and the quarterly reconciliation statements will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days from
the end of each quarter. Sample formats for the FMR and the PFS are provided in the PIM. An
independent audit firm acceptable to the Bank will be appointed to audit the annual PFS. The audit
should be carried out in line with the International Standards on Auditing as published by the
International Federation of Accounts and the specific TOR acceptable to the Bank. The audited PFS
should be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible, though not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. The TOR for the audit assignment provides for an audit of the project transactions and
an assessment of the financial management system, including a detailed review of internal control
mechanisms. The DOE and all other government organizations that are participating in implementation
of the project should provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records and any
other information required for the purposes of the project audit. The auditors will also provide a
memorandum on any weaknesses in the internal controls and include suggestions for improvement.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The project is envisioned to develop into a long-term program on environmental management, therefore,
learning and adapting will be an important aspect of project implementation. Accordingly, monitoring
and evaluation through Bank supervision missions, beneficiary impact assessments, financial and
procurement audits, and project status reports will be an integral part of project implementation. Both the
National Advisory Committees and the provincial Steering committees will monitor progress and provide
advice on project implementation. The PCT will also employ independent consultants to conduct
technical reviews on the establishment and operation of the air and water quality monitoring stations.
Due to the phased nature of project implementation, emerging lessons from such reviews will feed into
project improvements. Furthermore, the PCT will also employ consultants and/or NGOs to conduct
beneficiary impact assessments at least once a year to monitor key output indicators and transform
-9-



emerging lessons into the project design. A detailed monitoring and evaluation plan has been prepared
and is part of the Project Implementation Plan.
D. Project Ratio:nale
i. Project alternativesiconsidered and reasons for rejection:
Multi-sectoral Environmental Capacity Building: One option was to focus on capacity building for
all environmental activities currently being performed by the DOE in the country. This option was
rejected since past experience with Bank projects has shown that ad hoc environmental strengthening
projects have been less than successful and in few. cases has resulted in major restructuring. Hence, the
proposed intervention was designed to have a very clear and targeted sectoral and geographical focus.
Accordinigly, the top two sectoral priority areas - air and water pollution and geographical focus -
provinces of Tehran, Khuzestan, Khorasan, Markazi and Isfahan' were included in the project.
Stand-Alone TA Project: The DOE initially requested a stand-alone technical assistance project
without linking it to other investments. This option was rejected due to the less than satisfactory
experience in the past when the Bank funded purely capacity-building efforts of environmental
institutions (example: Morocco). The efforts mainly consisted of strengthening the environmental
agencies without any strong linkages to other line ministries, sector projects or beneficiaries, resulting in
ineffective institutional development.
Adaptable Lending Program (APL): The proposed project could have been an Adaptable Program
Lending instrument since institution building, policy reform and behavior change need a long-term
horizon. However, since this project will finance interventions for a relatively new client (i.e. the DOE)
and considering this project would be one of the first operations since the Bank-Government of Iran
re-engagement, the need for a small pilot activity was selected over a long-term, multi-year commnitment.
It-is envisioned that a successful pilot will lead to a long-term program with the DOE.
Financing Equipment: The DOE initially requested Bank financing solely for buying air pollution and
.water quality monitoring equipment for the major urban areas and rivers in the country. This request was
not supported because supply of monitoring equipment in' the absence of trained staff, capacity-building
and institutional change would result in the DOE falling short of its mandate to monitor, develop policies
and enforce regulations. Furthermore, spreading the project thinly over the whole country would result in
major implementation problems since the client has limited experience in Bank project implementation.
-10-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.                                  LatestSupervision
Sector Issue       .rnlett                               (PSR) Ratings
._____________________________           J  (Bank-financed   projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Oblective (DO)
Health and Social                Primary Health Care and          U             U
Nutrition I (FY00)
Social Fund Project (planned)
Irrigated Agriculture            Irrigation Improvement Project   S             S
(FY94)
Integrated Water & Land
Management Project (planned)
Water Strategy Note (FY03)
Infrastructure                   Tehran Sewage (FY00)             S             S
WSS Project (planned)'
Housing Project (planned)
Environment                      EIA Assessment (FY02)
Environment-Energy Review
(FY02)
Financial Management             Financial Accountability
Assessment (FY03)
Procurement                      Procurement Assessment
(FY03)       - .
Other development agencies
UNDP - Environment               Conservation of Iranian
Wetlands
GEF, Small Grants Program
UNDP - Environment               Montreal Protocol - Reduction
in Ozone Depletion Project
lTNDP - GEF                      Protection of Asiatic Cheetah
Habitat
JICA - Environment                Air Pollution Reduction
Strategy for Tehran
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Prioritization: It is important for environmental institutional development projects to clarify initially the
roles and responsibilities of institutions when these are unclear and ambiguous. Since ambiguous
institutional arrangements are symptomatic of weak strategies and policies, the temptation to "strengthen
everything" should be avoided. Priorities should be identified in a participatory manner and actions
phased accordingly. Hence, based on a rapid institutional assessment during project preparation, two
main areas of intervention were selected: capacity-building in monitoring and enforcement and
participatory environmental investments in air and water quality management, limited to the following
geographical areas: the provinces of Tehran, Isfahan, Markazi and Khorasan for air pollution monitoring
and the Karoon River Basin, Khuzestan province, for water quality monitoring.
Fiduciary aspects: Due to past implementation problems in the Bank's Iran portfolio, a financial and
procurement risk assessment were undertaken during project preparation to incorporate risk minimization
measures early in the project's design stage. The design includes hiring of dedicated staff and training
them in procurement and financial management.
Complex Design: Best practice examples indicate that project design should be a function of local
agencies to absorb and implement a project. Many projects with complex designs (e.g., Brazil, Morocco,
Russia. See Lessons Learned in Designing and Implementing Environmental Technical Assistance
Projects, in the project file) have been simplified and restructured. The key is to assess the institutional
capacity ex-ante to implement project components and maintain a degree of flexibility in design. Hence,
this project will be targeted and simple in design, keeping the assimilative capacity of the DOE as a
reference point. Furthermore, the DOE is extremely eager to decentralize to local units and collaborate
with relevant line ministries, municipalities, the private sector and civil society in project
implementation, an important design feature of the project.
Building Ownership: The overall goal is to focus on the environmental management system as a whole
and not exclusively the DOE. Capacity-building for the DOE is part of a long-term strategy to create a
better environmental management system. Strengthening partnerships with other agencies, including
other sector ministries, universities, and NGOs, is critical. To increase ownership and the participation of
other stakeholders during preparation, the DOE conducted workshops to identify priorities with
participants from sector ministries, NGOs and academics from the major universities in Tehran. These
exercises will be a constant feature during the implementation phases. Furthermore, the proposed project
concept was also discussed and approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Planning and
Budget.
Clear Training Objectives. Experience from other environmental technical assistance projects, for
example those in Chile and Brazil, has shown that a lack of clear training objectives can lead to training
programs that have no linkages to the project (see Lessons Learned in project file). Therefore, the
training and outreach component of this project was designed to complement the project's main
objectives. The training program is designed to enhance the performance of public sector personnel and
NGOs in air and water quality issues, ranging from equipment operation, to data collection and analysis,
to legal and institutional aspects.The environmental outreach program was also designed to raise
awareness within civil society and inform them of air and water pollution issues, improve their
understanding of the potential consequences on human health, and encourage mitigation behavior.
Complementary   Capacity-Building  Interventions with Investments:  While environmental
capacity-building projects are necessary to strengthen the overall policy and institutional framework,
investment projects could transform these policies into actions on the ground. However, there is also the
- 12 -



likelihood that the implementing agency will concentrate only on the investment component at the
expense of capacity-building. Nevertheless, lessons from past projects have shown that capacity-building
objectives are best achieved by a combination of the two. The design of the proposed project is intended
to anchor the capacity building activities through investments, to show results on the ground, build
partnerships and enhance the creditability of the DOE.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* The proposed project was one of the first interventions requested by the Government, as reflected in
the Interim Country Assistance Strategy. During the Bank's first exploratory mission in June 2001,
the Vice President of GOI and Head of DOE, personally requested World Bank assistance to
strengthen the capacity of the Department of Environment. Even during the subsequent missions by
senior management, the Government continued to request the Bank's assistance in financing the
EMSP project.
* The Government is on record as supporting a greatly enhanced and proactive role for civil society
and local institutions in addressing environmental issues, with specific provisions contained in the
Third Plan for strengthening civil society organizations. Public participation units are already
integrated into several ministries including the DOE.
*   There was strong and sustained support from line ministries, and more importantly from the
Ministries of Economic Affairs and Finance and the Management and Planning Organization, for the
proposed project during preparatory meetings with the Bank's team.
*   The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance reiterated his interest in World Bank assistance to
Iran during the Bank's 2002 Annual Meetings in Washington. The proposed project will be one of the
first interventions in the current re-engagement.
*   The Project Coordination Team (PCT) is in place both in terms of office space and dedicated staff
resources. The PCT consists of a project coordinator, four environmental experts (two each deputed
from the Air and Water Units of DOE), a procurement officer, a financial management specialist, a
liaison officer and administrative assistant.
*   Two other strategic environment activities administered by the Bank - the Environment-Energy
(underway) and the Costs of Environmental Degradation (starting soon) - will complement this
project.
*   Finally, and most importantly, the Supreme Economic Council has already cleared the proposed
EMSP project. The clearance paves the way for the DOE to borrow funds from the World Bank and
also authorizes the Management and Planning Organization to program counterpart funds in its
annual budget for the EMSP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The country has had limited access to global practices, especially in the environment sector, therefore the
Government views the Bank's re-engagement as an important mechanism for knowledge transfer.
Government officials have made it clear that while they appreciate the Bank's financial lending
instruments, they are more interested in tapping the Bank's global knowledge. There has been very
limited donor involvement in Iran over the last several years and it is unlikely the Government can attract
significant donor involvement in the environment sector. Hence the Government is keen to use the Bank
to mobilize donor interest in cofinancing. From the Bank's side, the combination of technical assistance
and investments would provide the opportunity to develop its status as a knowledge institution which is
in line with the new MNA strategy. Furthermore, the Bank will maintain an effective link with the
Government through its active re-engagement.
- 13 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR   % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A technical assistance project does not usually require an economic analysis, because of the difficulty
involved in quantifying project benefits. An attempt, however, has been made under the current project to
monetize some of the potential benefits. Caution should be used in the interpretation of the analysis as it
only provides an indication of the economic benefits of the project. The economic analysis presented in
Annex 4 (and in more detail in the Project File) gives an indication of the range of economic rate of
return, assuming the project is used within a broader strategy of pollution control. It is important to note
that investing in air and water quality monitoring will not in itself generate direct benefits. However, if
the proposed project is used within a strategy of pollution control, incremental benefits (above and
beyond those of the pollution control program) are very likely to occur. These benefits are mainly
associated with a reduction in negative impacts on health.
The GOI is planning major investments to reduce air and water pollution. For the city of Tehran alone,
the "Comprehensive Program of Air Pollution Reduction" foresees expenditure of $2 billion over the
next ten years to tackle air pollution. Similar plans are being developed for 6 other cities in Iran. An
integrated water management system for the Karoon river is also under preparation. The benefits of these
programs will primarily accrue to improving human health and well being. A good air and water quality
monitoring network, managed by well-trained technicians and yielding credible monitoring data, will
allow policy makers to better target these pollution control investments and increase the efficiency of
pollution control measures. While it is difficult to predict the exact increase in the effectiveness of
pollution control that can result from a monitoring network, the economic analysis considers a
conservative range of 0.5-1% to be the incremental reduction in the impacts of current pollution levels.
The analysis only captures some of the health impacts related to pollution (for air pollution it focuses on
the impact of PM1O levels, and for water pollution it is limited to diarrheal diseases in children). Despite
these limitations, the analysis suggests that if the proposed project is used within a strategy of pollution
control, it could yield an economic rate of return varying from 4 percent to 16 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The proposed IBRD loan would cover about 87 percent of the proposed project costs. It is envisioned
that about 4 percent of project costs will be non-lending technical assistance funded through grants by the
Bank and other donors. The remaining 9 percent would be government and beneficiary counterpart
funding. It is expected that nearly 50 percent of the IBRD loan would be used to finance air and water
quality monitoring equipment.
Fiscal Impact:
Due to its small size, the project's share of the Government's recurrent spending for the Department of
Environment is likely to be very small. Total recurrent costs for the entire project are US$2.25 million,
about 10 percent of total project cost. Nevertheless, past experience has shown that providing an initial
operating subsidy for incremental operating costs sets a good performance record and increases project
sustainability. Accordingly, the project design includes a declining subsidy on incremental operating
costs.
- 14 -



3. Technical:
Technical assessments were undertaken as part of the overall needs assessment for the supply and
training on air and water quality monitoring (reports on file). The assessments show limited capacity
within the DOE, particularly in provincial offices, in terms of the appropriate equipment and skills mix
for monitoring air and water quality. For example, though the city of Mashad has significant air pollution
due to traffic and has been supplied with air quality analyzers, they remain non-operational due to a lack
of trained staff. Similarly, in DOE laboratories in Ahwaz, Khuzestan province, some water quality
monitoring equipment has been disabled due to a lack of funds to purchase chemicals for analysis. Data
analysis and interpretation are also areas of concern that need consistent targeted training. Lack of local
capacities and limited access to international markets for the purchase of equipment place constraints on
the kind of instruments that can be made available. Accordingly, the project design proposes the
following measures to alleviate these concems: (i) purchase all air quality monitoring stations through
one procurement. package to ensure standardization and future networking between provincial offices; (ii)
ask the supplier to provide an extended operation and maintenance plan; and (iii) allocate funds for
training and capacity-building in water and air quality monitoring and specifically target proper
operation, maintenance, analysis and data interpretation. Both the air quality and water quality needs
assessments were conducted by experienced professionals with international experience in air and water
quality monitoring instrumentation, thus the costs are expected to be within an acceptable range of
accuracy.
4. Institutional:
An institutional assessment conducted on the current organizational structure, responsibilities, staffing
patterns and skill mix within the DOE highlighted the following issues: (i) overlapping responsibilities
and mandates within the DOE and other institutions tend to hinder the management of environmental and
natural resources; (ii) the general lack of awareness among stakeholders of the DOEs mandate and work
program affects the credibility of the department; (iii) the increasing responsibilities of provincial DOEs
create an imbalance in staffing patterns and the skills mix hinders policy implementation, monitoring,
and enforcement; and (iv) while most departments within the DOE have highly qualified senior
managers, there is a serious lack of mid-level managers for individual project-related tasks.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be implemented by the DOE through the Project Coordination Team under the guidance
of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and assisted by the National Expert Commnittee (NEC) at the
center and Steering Committees (SC) at the provincial level. The NEC, composed of key stakeholder
institutions (DOE, including the DG of the project provinces, relevant line ministries, local governments,
NGOs, the private sector and academia) will guide the implementation of the project and facilitate
coordination among stakeholders. Members of this committee will be committed and motivated experts
who can advise DOE on the implementation of EMSP. The SC composed of DOE and stakeholder
institutions will play an advisory role in the implementation of the 'project at the provincial and local
levels. The NEC will also review the pilot project proposals for promoting partnerships submitted by line
ministries and municipalities. The selection of NGO proposals for pilot projects will be made by a
committee composed of members of the NEC. NGO proposals in the provinces will be selected by a
committee of members of the SC.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by a project coordinator and will be assisted by a liaison officer, four
environmental specialists, a financial and a procurement specialist and an administrative assistant from
DOE.
- 15 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement risk assessment was conducted as part of the pre-appraisal mission and the following
recommendations were incorporated into project design. Since the proposed project will be the first
Bank-funded operation within the DOE, capacity-building and continued assistance with Bank
procurement issues will be crucial for successful project implementation. Accordingly, a procurement
advisor will be hired to monitor the project's procurement operations and provide support to the PCT in
preparing bidding documents/request for proposals, evaluation reports, draft contracts, and annual
procurement plans. Detailed TORs for hiring a procurement advisor have already been completed.
Moreover, the procurement assessment also recommended hiring a contracts manager (either an
individual or a firm) to assist the PCT in managing and monitoring the procurement contracts. Funds for
both the advisor and contracts manager have been included in the project budget. The main procurement
issues in the project are the following: (i) the TA consultancy contract for strengthening the legal and
institutional framework is estimated at US$900,000; (ii) procurement of air quality monitoring stations is
estimated at US$6,550,000; and (iii) procurement of water quality monitoring stations is estimated at
US$1,460,000. These three packages represent around 45 percent of the loan amount and all three
contracts will go into effect within the first two years of the project. Preparation of the terms of reference
for the TA consultants will be done by the PCT with support from the Bank. The PCT has agreed to
advertise the Request for Expression of Interest and the request for pre-qualification for the major
procurement packages by March 30, 2003. To address the special requirements of the air and water
quality monitoring stations, individual TA consultants will be hired to provide support to the PCT to
prepare detailed specifications and conduct evaluations. The pre-qualification process will be carried out
to identify the qualified suppliers who will be invited to participate in the ICB (International Competitive
Bidding) procurement bids. The design also envisions resource allocation from the PCT to manage these
contracts.
4.4 Financial management issues:
With the appointment of a financial consultant the project's financial arrangements should be adequate
to: (i) install accounting and financial reporting software capable of generating Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMR) required by the Bank, and (ii) implementation of the PIP. In the interim, the PCT will use
computer spreadsheets to facilitate accounting report preparation required by the Bank. In the absence of
a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Iran, complementary accounting and
reporting procedures will be introduced for the project, as described in the PIM. These complementary
procedures will mitigate the inherent risk in public finance management and respond to systemic issues
that could adversely affect the preparation of timely FMRs for the Bank. The control risk is considered
modest as there are strict public accounting rules with clear funds flow processes through the Central
Bank of Iran and the project's bank accounts. To mitigate the control risk and avoid inconsistent
implementation of the project's financial management requirements: (i) procedures have been developed
and incorporated in a comprehensive PIM for the PCT to implement in conjunction with installation of
the accounting software and assistance will be provided by the consultant within three months of project
start-up, (ii) financial staff will participate in training in financial management, and (iii) appointment of
the independent auditors to perform an audit that will meet the Bank's requirements and guidelines. The
risk of a lack of counterpart funding is also considered to be modest since counterpart funding is
component-based and a substantial part of it will be in-kind. To mitigate this risk, however: (i) during
supervision, a review of the in-kind contributions will be made to ensure that they are incurred in line
with the provisions of the loan agreement, and (ii) a specific review of counterpart funding will be also
included in the TOR of the independent auditors. During project supervision, regular reviews will be
carried out to ensure consistent application of the PIM.
- 16 -



5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This is primarily a technical assistance project to build the DOE's institutional capacity and as such
should generate mainly positive environmental impacts. The project will fund capacity-building activities
expected to generate positive environmental impacts such as studies, seminars, training workshops and
public awareness campaigns targeting water and air pollution issues. Minor civil works such as
rehabilitation of a dormitory to accommodate girls is expected to cost less than US$150,000 and have
limited negative environmental impacts. This aspect related to the minor civil works would be addressed
through screening process and mitigation measures would be part of the contractors bidding documents.
In accordance with the directives of Environmental Assessment OP 4.01, this project is categorized as a
"C" project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable (N/A)
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
No EA/EMP is needed. However, stakeholders will be consulted in selecting pilot projects. Details are
provided below.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issue for environmental management is insufficient public engagement, a lack of adequate
public information and poor institutional coordination. Faced with a wide range of issues-pollution,
waste management, resource degradation and dispersed ministerial responsibilities loosely associated
with the environment department-public and voluntary agencies recognize no clear environmental
mandate and role. The expected social development outcome of this project include lessons learned to
enhance participation in environmental management; linking NGOs, municipalities and government
ministries in the planning and execution of pilot projects related to the management of air and water
pollution. A second outcome is better public awareness of air and water pollution issues.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
NGOs, local communities and municipalities in the provinces of Tehran, Isfahan, Khuzestan, Markazi
and Khorasan will identify priority local actions for improving air and water quality through a
- 17-



consultative process to be facilitated by a consultant with experience in participatory methods and
knowledge of environmental issues. Once these pilot projects have been defined, they will be
implemented by NGOs which will be selected through competitive bidding.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations have been held with NGOs throughout project preparation. Environmental awareness and
action are well-represented in the NGO community that is enthusiastic, but weak and fragmented. In
many cases, NGOs have solid grassroots contacts, close cooperation with municipalities and universities,
and a sound gender balance, however they remain wary of official co-optation. Cooperation with the
DOE, therefore, needs to be strengthened. The Public Relations and Participation Bureau of the DOE is
trying to improve these ties through training and outreach activities. NGOs will be engaged in pilot
project implementation through four main types of interventions: (i) public education on the impacts of
air and water pollution; (ii) awareness campaigns accompanied by concrete action designed to change
people's behavior; (iii) monitoring polluters and organizing action to limit this behavior; and (iv)
monitoring, evaluating and consolidating lessons learned.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
To meet the social development objective of enhanced public participation in environmental
management, the DOE will establish partnerships with municipalities, line ministries and NGOs in
implementing pilot environmental projects dealing with air and water quality issues. Municipalities and
line ministries will propose projects to the PCT for joint financing. The National Expert Committee will
review proposals. Proposals from municipalities in the provinces will be reviewed by the Steering
Committee of their respective province. The PCT will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating pilot
projects implemented by line ministries.
With the assistance of a participation and environment specialist, the DOE will identify priority air and
water pollution issues from a community perspective in each of the localities and contract NGOs to
address these issues. NGOs working in Tehran will be selected by a committee composed of members of
the National Expert Committee. In each province, a similar selection committee drawn from the project's
provincial Steering Commrittee will select projects based on World Bank procurement guidelines. To
ensure transparency, NGOs on the Expert Committee or Steering Committee will not be eligible for
bidding on pilot projects. The Public Relations and Participation Bureau of the DOE will be responsible
for monitoring the implementation of pilot projects and providing technical support as needed.
The project will assist the DOE in developing its outreach strategy to ensure that the most effective and
efficient channels and methods of communication reach target populations.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
NGOs, municipalities and line ministries implementing pilot projects will be required to submit reports
on a regular basis, including data for self-monitoring. Funds disbursement will be based on performance
as evaluated by the DOE. Periodic surveys, including baseline surveys, will be conducted to evaluate
outreach (i.e. public information) aspects of the project. In addition, mid-term and final evaluations will
be conducted by a local consultant to evaluate the integrated impact of these activities. Beneficiary
assessments and periodic surveys of the DOE's partner organizations designed to evaluate their
perception of the DOE and the quality of cooperation will be conducted.
- 18-



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pr ect?
-          -p l~rIicy  ;-   -  .-*--. - .                *.r*rigg&d* - ,  -  '
Enviromnental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 ) Yes * No
Natural Habitats (QP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 9 Yes S No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                  ( Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  (U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               U Yes    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                U Yes     No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       U Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U Yes w No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      C) Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The lack of sustainability in similar projects was due to adopting an ad hoc approach, not linking
capacity-building with other investments, expecting short-term development outcomes, and a lack of
government financing to continue the process after project completion. Accordingly, the design of the
proposed project includes the following features to enhance sustainability:
*   The project will be a five-year- operation providing adequate time to develop a knowledge base and
understanding of the existing capacity of the environmental institutions as well as relationships with
other relevant institutions, civil society and beneficiaries. There should also' be enough time to bridge
the gap between policy reform and implementation, develop local capacity and establish partnerships
among stakeholders.
* The project targets a few realistic outcomes such as improving air quality monitoring in four cities
(Tehran, Isfahan, Mashhad and- Arak) and improving water quality monitoring in the Karoon River
Basin.
* Environmental pollution is a serious and highly visible public concern. Since the DOE is mandated to
address this problem, there is a strong motivating factor to ensure project success, thereby enhancing
its creditability with decision makers'and the public.
* The project will assist the DOE in locating strategic long-term partners such as universities, research
organizations and NGOs, to build capacity in the pilot provinces.
* Preparation of a follow-up operation is part.pf the current project design. This feature encourages the
Government to commnit to a long-term strategy from project commencement.
* The inclusion of participatory environment subprojects increases ownership and awareness, thereby
building grassroots support for a continuation of activities.
*   Iran is a middle income country in a relatively healthy financial position. As per the Third 5-year
Plan, the Government is committed to funding activities in the social and environmental sectors.
According to the DOE, continued government funding for environmental management will not be a
problem, especially if the EMSP leaves a trail of success stories.
-19-



*   Furthermore, the clearance received from the Economic Council for the project clears the way for the
DOE to secure both the loan and the yearly counterpart funding to implement the project. This
demonstrates Government ownership and commitment to a long term strategy.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
DOE is committed to follow up on           M         The assessment is conducted with the active
recommendations from the institutional               participation of the DOE and other relevant
and policy assessment.                               stakeholders including sector ministries, civil
society and beneficiaries.
DOE is committed to training staff,        N         Build ownership at the vice-presidential level
especially providing opportunities for               (Iran's VP is also head of the DOE) for
women trainees.                                      furthering women's participation and provide
adequate facilities for female participants in
training programs.
Public continues to be interested in       M         Targeted public awareness programs with wide
environmental issues and actively                    coverage. DOE promotes openness and
collaborates with the DOE.                           transparency in all its activities; keeps all
stakeholders informed on a continuous basis
through a Web site.
From Components to Outputs
Monitoring equipment for air and water     M         Firms least impacted by political issues will be
quality are available for export to Iran.            shortlisted for equipment supply.
Municipalities are committed to            M         DOE's outreach program actively pursues
environmental management and support                 awareness and close partnerships with
environment-friendly subprojects.                    participating municipalities and their
beneficiaries.
Government commnitment to support          M         DOE is able to demonstrate successful
follow-up institutional building project.            monitoring and enforcement programs.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
-20 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There will be no effectiveness conditions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* The PCT, the Policy Planning Units, the National Expert Committee and Provincial Steering
Committees are maintained during project implementation.
* Expressions of Interest for the three main procurement' packages - TA, Supply of Air Pollution
Monitoring Equipment and Supply of Water Quality Monitoring Equipment will be advertised by
March 30, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D l. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1  1. b)'Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Procurement Plans are ready and expressions of interest for the 3 main packages will be advertised
by March 30, 2003.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
lIi 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Kantha,3akar                 j     S lfi"laarghouth                os h     aba
TeaFn%,eadaL-----'          T    Sector Manager                   country Manager/Director
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
, -     ~--Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy          -;
Hierarch  of Objectives       - Indicators           ---              -       - -:CiticairAssupins'-
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Environmentally sustainable  Reduction in pollution levels  Country Assistance Strategy  Government continues to
and socially inclusive    specifically water and air                           accord priority to
development (Interim Country pollution                                         environmental issues in the
Strategy - CY2000)                                                             third five-year and subsequent
development plans.
Government continues to stay
engaged with the Bank for the
long term.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Strengthen the capacity of the By year 5 there is:  (i) State of the environment  (i) The Govermnent stays
Department of Environment in (i) institutionalization of  report               committed to environmental
Tehran, Isfahan, Markazi and  routine and accurate data  (ii) Yearly beneficiary impact protection and ensure
Khorasan to monitor air   collection, interpretation and  assessments          sustainable development in
quality, and in Khuzestan to  reporting of air and water  (iii) Supervision mission  Iran.
monitor water quality.    quality in the project areas;  report                (ii) Public continues to
(iii) public accessibility of                        participate and engage in
up-to-date data on air and                           dialogue with the Government
water quality in the five                            in ensuring sustainable
provinces;                                           development in the country.
(iv) enhanced perception of
the DOE's role in protecting
human health and well being;
(v) development of targeted
strategies and programs for
reducing the adverse health
impacts of air and water
pollution.
-22 -



'1'-LDzat' .Collection: rSiritegy 1  -r
'WHier rchy.of Objectiv.e,             catetsctorsm. .f 1. _   I            -;|      rltica
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Strengthening
institutional capacity to
monitor air and water
quality
1.1 Recommendations in place Recommendations of       Diagnostic institutional   Once the recommendations on
to strengthen the legislative  Institutional Assessment and  assessment report   institutional reform are
and institutional framework.  CEA are incorporated into the                      accepted, DOE is committed
Country Environmental      management and staffing plans Needs assessment report on air to implementation
Analysis (CEA) and other   of DOE for the five offices  quality monitoring equipment
relevant AAA/sector works are and budgeted into annual                           DOE is committed to
available.                 plans by MPO.              EMSP progress report       decentralization of
responsibilities to the
Beneficiary assessment shows Receiving agencies annual  provincial offices
improvement in air and water  report
quality monitoring data                               DOE is committed to
supplied to the public and  Annual report             involving civil society and the
other stakeholders.                                   private sector.
1.2 EIA system within the two Number of EIA regulations  EMSP Progress report
DOE offices is improved and  revised, updated and drafted in                     Staff resources are available to
functional.                years 1-3                                             make adequate use of the
training offered through the
Two provincial DOE review                             project.
panels (Khorasan, Khuzestan)
are established and supported
by year 3.
EIA database and document
repository system at DOE and
two provincial DOEs are
established and/or improved in
year 2.
1.3 Environmental          Necessary hardware and     EMSP progress report
Information Management     software are supplied to the
System (EIMS) in pilot     DOE in Tehran, Isfahan,
provinces established or/and  Khorasan, and Khuzestan to
improved.                  improve internet access.
Number of staff trained in
EIMS.
In years 2-5, environmental
data and information on water
and air quality are collected,
consolidated and analyzed.
- 23 -



In year 3, the system is
evaluated and there is an
improvement in information
flows to decision-makers.
1.5 DOE offices in Tehran,  Number of staff trained in  EMSP progress report.
Isfahan, Mashhad and Arak  using the new monitoring
have the required instruments, equipment.           Reports by implementing
laboratories and training to                        agencies.
effectively monitor air quality Four air quality stations and 2
on selected locations.    meteorological stations   Consultant report.
installed in one province by
the end of the second year
after project effectiveness.
A total of 41 monitoring
stations, and 8 meteorological
stations installed in Tehran,
Isfahan,.Mashhad and Arak.
1.4 DOE office in Khuzestan  Number of staff trained in
(and to some extent KWPA)  using the new monitoring
have the required instruments, equipment.
laboratories and training to
effectively monitor surface  24 water monitoring stations
water quality in the Karoon  installed for DOE and the
river basin.              KWPA (Karoon Water and
Power Authority).
Improved coordination and
data sharing between DOE in
Khuzestan and KWPA (none
exists at present)
2 Building partnerships   Number of pilot projects  Implementation reports by  Line ministries, municipalities
through pilot environmental implemented in partnership  each of the partner   and NGOs are willing to build
projects for air and water  with line ministries and  organizations. Monitoring and partnerships with DOE.
quality management in     municipalities.           evaluation reports by the
Tehran, Isfahan, Khuzestan,                         Public Participation      Line ministries, municipalities
Markazi and Khorasan. These Within the first year DOE  Department and the PCT in  and NGOs have the capacity to
projects will be implemented  identifies pilot projects for  the DOE. Evaluation reports  implement pilot projects.
in partnership and through  implementation by NGOs and on the training program,
joint funding with line   solicits proposals.       including participant     Once trust is established
ministries, municipalities and                   . evaluation.                between the DOE and NGOs,
universities on a demand  Number of pilot projects                            the public will participate in
basis. NGOs would be invited implemented by NGOs in each Trainers provide evaluation  discussions around
to submit proposals to    of the provinces.         reports.                  environmental issues and
implement projects identified                                                 engage in sustainable
by DOE.                   Number and type of training                         partnerships with the DOE.
offered to staff in the public
participation office.
- 24 -



3. Training and public
awareness programs to
improve air and water
quality.
DOE is committed to
3.1 The IAESR jointly with  At least 5 courses to be.  EMSP progress report   including women in its
the Bureau for Environmental developed by year 2. 15  Training evaluation report  development plans.
Training (with assistance from  courses developed by the end' PSR
WBI) will develop training  of the project.                                    DOE continues to employ
courses on air and water                                                      trained staff and provide
issues. Courses will be taught At least 20 workshops                           opportunities, especially for
in Tehran (through the    organized for DOE staff and                          women, to enhance the
IAESR) and in the three pilot other line ministries and                       institution's performance and
provinces (through        institutions before the end of                       networking and to apply newly
partnerships with existing  the project. At least 30% of                       acquired skills. The DOE
universities or training  participants are non-DOE                             commits to improving
institutions)             staff.                                               performance and the quality of
training activities
50% of the selected trainees in
each batch are women.
At least 1/3 of the workshops
are outsourced to research
institutes, universities and
training centers.
The newly built IAESR is
3.2 Provide furniture and  fully equipped and operational
equipment to the IAESR.   by year 3.
A dormitory we be renovated
3.3 Improve girls' access to  to accommodate girls near the
environmental training    training center. It will be fully
facilities                furnished by year 3.
3.4 Upgrade water and air labs Existing water and air labs are
for use by students of the  upgraded and used by the
IAESR.                    students on a regular basis.
3.5 Environmental awareness  Environmental outreach
strategy on air and water  strategy prepared by year 2
quality prepared          and implementation begins.
3.6 Environmental awareness  At least ten tv clips and radio  Strategy report and action
campaign on air and water  programs prepared by DOE (at plan.
issues undertaken using the  least 5 of them in
media.                    collaboration with the relevant
air pollution control body in
Tehran Municipality) by the
end of the project.
At least 2 tv clips and radio
programs are aired on national
television and radio (3 times a
week for six months each) by
- 25 -



year 2.
.7 Environmental information Nine out-of-print publications
through easy to read      updated, printed and widely
ublications               istributed by year 3.
ix new publications dedicated
o air and water issues (one of
hem targeted to the pollution in
he Karoon river) prepared,
ublished and distributed by
ear 4.
Publications made available on
he DOE's Web site.
.8 Monitoring and Evaluation  ne year after the airing of the  aseline surveys of the public's
f outreach activities    TV clips, there should be  knowledge on air and water
greater awareness of air and  pollution are carried out in the
water related issues.     pilot provinces. Survey reports.
School children and        nnual surveys are-carried out
ommunities demonstrate a  to monitor the effectiveness of
reater knowledge of      the tv messages.
nvironmental issues
Surveys of publication users
arried out to assess
effectiveness.
. Project management and
oordination
.1 Finance incremental costs  CT in Tehran (and selected  EMSP progress report  OE commits to improve
for the establishment,    DOE staff in provincial offices)                    the administrative and
uipment and operations of a Fully trained in project  Yearly management report  managerial skills of its staff
project coordination team  management, procurement and                        (especially in areas such as
within DOE. Train the project inancial management.                            project management,
team in project management,                                                    rocurement, and financial
financial management and  ream maintains project                              management.)
rocurement. Extend training to mplementation schedule
select DOE staff in three
provinces.
4.2 Project team will include a Project procurement is  Procurement audits
rocurement expert who will  ccording to World Bank
benefit from the experience of  uidelines.
procurement advisor.
4.3 Contract a financial audit  Financial management reports Financial audit reports  Government is committed to
firm.                     n accordance with World Bank                         nvironmental management and
equirements.                                        dialogue with the Bank
4.4 Follow-up project is   ollow-up project is supported
repared.                  y the Bank and approved by
he cabinet and parliament by
ear 5.
- 26 -



-e>_.:' - ' n G --$-  ; ' -  --|  ~ iKey PerfKrmanice'  |Data Collection Sit
-iHiofObecties. -- Ji llndicators: .1-.--_i_______-_-_*-      _____:_-  :| Critical-Ass mptions- 
?PfHirarchyofifbjectives                                                               -Asc:-~. ~   .. -*' 
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Strengthening          US$13.4 million
institutional capacity to
monitor air and water
quality
1.1 Strengthening the legal  US$2.4 million         Supervision and disbursement DOE is amenable to outsource
and institutional framework                         reports                   monitoring responsibilities to
including AAA/sector work,                          Financial audits          the civil society and the
legal framework on water and                        Beneficiary impact        private sector.
air quality, EIA system, and                        assessments
Environmental Information                           Citizen complaints/       Qualified staff are available
Management System.                                  compliments received by   from DOE to be trained.
DOE's public relations office.
1.2 Monitoring equipment for US$8.7 million                                   Line ministries and
air quality including training                                                municipalities are interested in
in the use of the equipment.                                                  participating
1.3 Monitoring equipment for US$2.3 million                                   NGOs and CBOs
surface water quality,                                                        (community-based
including training in the use of                                              organizations) have sufficient
the equipment.                                                                confidence in government
procedures
2 Building partnership    US$2.5 million
through pilot environmental
projects.
These projects would be                             Progress reports by
implemented in partnership                          implementing partners.
and through joint funding with
line ministries, municipalities                     DOE evaluations.
and universities on a demand
basis. NGOs would be invited                        Beneficiary assessments
to submit proposals to
implement projects identified
by DOE.
3. Training and public    US$3.8 million
awareness programs to
improve air and water
quality.
Baseline survey report.   Capacity exits in the private
3.1 Strengthen DOE's capacity US$1.3 million        Implementing agencies     sector to conduct
to providing technical and                          progress report.          environmental capacity
applied environmental courses                       Beneficiary impact        building/training activities
to its staff, outside students,                     assessments.
line ministries staff, etc.                                                   Qualified staff are available
from DOE to be trained.
Provide furniture and
equipment to the training                                                     DOE is amenable to opening
- 27 -



center and girls' dormitory and                                               training facilities to other
upgrade existing water and air                                                ministries, civil society and
labs.                                                                         other partner organizations.
3.2 Environmental awareness US$2.5 million
programs through the media
and mass publications.
4. Project management and  US$1.4 million
coordination
4.1 Finance incremental costs US$0.9 million                                  The project team becomes
for the establishment,                                                        proficient in Bank operating
equipment and operations of a                                                 procedures.
project team within DOE,
including office-equipment,
cars, project and financial
management systems. Train
the team in project
management, financial
management and procurement
(these training could be extend
to other DOE staff as well).
4.2 Contract financial audit  US$0.3 million
firm and a procurement
advisor.
4.3 Finance the preparation of US$0.2 million
a follow-up environmental
project.
5. Contingencies          US$ 1.7 million
- 28 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Major cities such as Tehran, Mashhad, Isfahan, and Arak face severe air pollution and related problems.
One of the largest rivers in Iran, the Karoon River, provides potable water for over 2 million people and
irrigates large tracts of agricultural land, but it is highly polluted from untreated industrial and municipal
wastewater. The population of these cities and provinces (around 30 percent of the total population) face
major health problems related to air and water pollution. In addition, pollution degrades the quality of life
(through reduced visibility in Tehran for example) and threatens the survival of natural ecosystems. A
good air and water quality monitoring network can provide local authorities with an important instrument
to identify localities where pubic health is particularly threatened. Hence credible data on water and air
quality will improve the capacity of policy makers in designing targeted and efficient pollution control
interventions.
The Department of Environment has the mandate to monitor both air and water quality. However, with
limited human and financial resources, it has so far been unable to successfully fulfill this task. Under the
proposed project, it is hoped that the DOE in the five pilot provinces will become equipped with the
necessary monitoring stations and its staff will be fully trained in the operation of the stations, data
collection, analysis, and interpretation to make policy recommendations. The project will also support the
development of a strong legal and institutional framework, strengthen specialized capacity and promote a
large-scale environmental awareness campaign. By the completion of the project, the DOE should be in a
position to fully monitor air and water pollution in the pilot provinces to influence policy and replicate
the intervention in other provinces.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$13.40 million
Strengthening Institutional Capacity to Monitor Air and Water Quality
Sub-component 1 - Strengthening Legal and Institutional Framework
This sub-component will strengthen the legal and institutional framework governing water and air
pollution control enabling the central and provincial DOEs to develop sound policies, enforceable
regulations, effective compliance and enforcement mechanisms, reliable information, and widespread
public support. To achieve these objectives, this component will support the central DOE in Tehran and
provincial DOEs in Isfahan, Mashhad, and Khuzestan through the following five areas of intervention:
Mainstream Environmental Policies and Programs. A policy planning unit will be established. Among
other things, this unit will be responsible for implementing four studies with the assistance of
international and local consultants. These studies are intended to mainstream environmental management
into policies and programs. They include: a cost of environmental degradation study, an environment
energy review, an industrial air and water pollution study, and a country environmental analysis.
Training will also be provided to government officials, universities, the private sector and NGOs on
linkages between environmental and socioeconomic policies.
Improve Legal and Institutional Framework Governing Air and Water Quality Management. The
existing regulatory framework on air and water quality management will be strengthened to ensure
compliance with international conventions to which Iran is a party, applicable international norms,
standards and best practices. The task will include: (i) a diagnostic assessment of institutions responsible
for water and air quality management; (ii) a review and update of the Islamic Republic of Iran's (RI)
legal framework (application of the framework would permit the implementation of polluters pay and
precautionary principles, public participation and disclosure, environmental liability, market based and
-29 -



voluntary mechanisms, environmentally-oriented permitting systems, and cooperation among
stakeholders); (iii) update quality standards for water and air pollution, including the development of
procedures and guidelines for compliance and enforcement; and (iv) the dissemination of revised laws,
regulations, norms and quality standards through training for lawyers, prosecutors, NGOs, environmental
inspectors and environmental enforcement authorities.
Enhancement of the EMA System at National and Provincial Levels. Building on the recommendations of
a World Bank evaluation of the IR's EIA system, this sub-component will enhance the DOE's EIA
system through the following activities: (i) updating and amending the present EIA legal framework in
accordance with international good practice, including the World Bank's environmental safeguard
policies and EU directives; (ii) updating and developing sectoral guidelines for ELA preparation, review
and implementation; (iii) strengthening the capacity of line ministries and consulting firms to prepare
EIAs through better guidelines and training programs; (iv) building DOE's capacity to monitor the
implementation of Environmental Management Plans; (v) establishing EIA units and databases in
Tehran, and the provincial DOE offices of Khorasan and Khuzestan; (vi) in collaboration with NGOs and
the media, establishing procedures and mechanisms for public participation and consultation in the EIA
process and disclosure of relevant project documents; and (vii) increase public awareness and outreach to
policy makers and communities.
Establish Environmental Information Management System (EIMS) at DOE in Tehran and two Provincial
DOEs: Khorasan and Khuzestan. An EIMS to collect, consolidate and analyze data related to water and
air pollution control will be established to improve strategic decision-making at the national and
provincial levels. Activities would include: (i) establishing basic skills within the DOE in collecting
environmental data on water and air quality; (ii) consolidating data on water and air quality from relevant
ministries, industries, and other key institutions such as municipalities and industrial complexes; and
(iii) analyzing the data collected to provide a sound basis for environmental decision making, compliance
and enforcement. The EIMS will be piloted in Tehran, Khorasan and Khuzestan for two years and
evaluated in the third year. Relevant DOE offices will be equipped with necessary computer hardware,
software, consultant services and training.
Sub component 2 - Air Quality Monitoring
An air quality monitoring assessment was conducted and a summary of the findings and
recommendations were incorporated into the design of this sub-component. The air quality stations (in
the cities of Tehran, Marshad, Isfahan and Arak) that do exist have been located in peak locations and
determined subjectively on the basis of maximum nearby traffic. DOE staff have had limited training
and are constrained from "hands-on" operation of analyzers by contractual agreements that put the
servicing and calibration in the hands of a private company. There is a lack of available quality control
data from the existing monitoring network. Although information is available on real-time displays in
Tehran, and for the individual station in Mashhad, there is no evidence that the data are assembled at a
national level and the information is published and used. This sub-component will finance the installation
of a total of about 49 air quality monitoring stations (each station costing about US$150,000) in the cities
of Tehran, Isfahan, Mashhad, and Arak. The sub-component will also finance related operation and
maintenance and capacity building activities. Due to the limited capacity within the DOE, it has been
proposed that the implementation phase of this sub-component be staged. The first phase would include
the establishment of a limited number of stations accompanied by intensive training of field staff and
other staff responsible for preparing and issuing reports and assessments based on the information. In
general, this first stage would include 3 to 5 stations. The remaining stations would be delayed by about 6
to 8 months to allow staff to become familiar with the equipment and to go through two cycles of
calibration and routine maintenance. It is envisioned that this component will provide credible data on air
quality that will allow policy makers to better identify priority areas for pollution control and select
mitigation measures that will provide the greatest public health benefits at the lowest cost.
- 30 -



Subcomponent 3 - Water Quality Monitoring
A needs assessments was conducted by two international consultants to identify weaknesses in the
monitoring capacity of the Khuzestan Department'of Environment (KDOE). Maj'or gaps in'the existing
water quality monitoring-systems can be sub-divided into four categories': (i) human resources and
capacity building, (ii) technological and equipment needs, (iii) data management and processing, and (iv)
coordination with stakeholders. The proposed project aims at strengthening the existing KDOE
monitoring capabilities by reinforcing capacity for: (i) compliance, monitoring of Karoon water quality;
(ii) ambient water monitoring; (iii) development of local standards specific for the Karoon River; and (iv)
control of point and non-point water pollution sources. The tasks to be financed through this
sub-component will be the following: (i) set up of an online monitoring system based on the current 15
stations; (ii) reinforcement of KDOE field and laboratory facilities; (iii) technical assistance and training,
including the development of a data dissemination system; and (iv) the implementation of a provincial
awareness program on water quality. Accordingly, the sub-component will finance the installation of.24
water quality stations in a pilot area along the Karoon river. It will also train DOE staff in the provincial
office of Khuzestan to operate and maintain the equipment as well as to analyze and interpret the data.
(detailed report on this subcomponent is in the project files).
Project Component 2 - US$2.50 million
Building Partnership through Pilot Environmental Projects-
Pilot environmental projects will be implemented in partnership with municipalities, NGOs, and'line
ministries. The projects will focus on activities that relate to air and water quality management in the five
pilot provinces. There will be two types of pilot projects: those proposed by line ministries and
municipalities and those implemented by NGOs. First, a line ministry or municipality may propose an
activity to the DOE that can be jointly financed. Second, with the help of an environmental and
participation expert and in consultation with local communities, the DOE will identify a few projects in
each of the provinces and prepare the call for proposals and terms of reference. NGOs will then bid to
implement these tasks.
1. Pilot projects to be implemented by municipalities and relevant line ministries:
Line ministries and municipalities will propose pilot projects' to the DOE to be jointly financed.
Proposals will include (i) specific challenges in addressing issues air and water quality issues the
institution is unable to fulfill; (ii) ways the proposed project will address these challenges; (iii) how a
partnership between the institution and the DOE will improve the outcome; (iv) what the contribution of
the' institution will be; and (v) the DOE's expected contribution.Proposals that include universities' as
collaborators will be encouraged. There will be no financial transfers from the DOE to the partnering
institution. Rather, the DOE will contract anid pay a third party for the services required to implement the
project.
Criteria for eligible activities
The EMSP will support Technical Assistance projects (such as studies, training, public education,
workshops, etc.) that are:
*  Related to air and water quality issues, (including improvement,'monitoring, prevention of air and
water pollution, education and awareness, setting up a Web site, publications, etc.)
For public benefit
* Ready to begin within a month of funding approval
* Completed within a defined period of time (3 - 12 months)
* Within the project's five provinces
* Designed with a measurable output-specific deliverable.
- 31 -



Projects involving civil works or the partner institution's recuffent costs will not be eligible. Costs of the
project range from $200,000-$400,000, although proposals of amounts higher or lower may be
considered if they have adequate justification.
The National Expert Committee will refer to the above criteria and the Project Proposal Sheet in
reviewing the proposal and recommending funding under ESMP. The committee's recommendation is
subject to the Bank's no-objection. Projects that do not fall within the eligibility criteria will be
considered with proper justification and approval from the Bank.
The Public Participation Bureau of the DOE will inform the municipalities and the EMSP Project
Coordination Team will inform line ministries of the availability of resources for partnership, explain the
criteria for eligibility, distribute the project proposal forms and encourage them to send proposals. All of
this information is expected to become available on the DOE Web site.
II. Pilot projects to be implemented by NGOs
The DOE will hire an environmental and participation expert or an NGO to identify projects to be
implemented by NGOs. (If an NGO is selected to undertake this task, it will not be eligible for
implementing partnership projects). The consultant will identify local-level concerns in the five
provinces related to air and water quality that can be addressed by NGOs in each of the pilot provinces.
The consultant will work closely with local councils, municipalities, neighborhood groups, associations,
etc., in the pilot provinces to identify sources of problems and possible solutions in the form of pilot
projects. TORs for the consultant's work will be prepared by the Bank. The following generic questions
may be considered in the consultant's TOR for identifying pilot projects:
* What are the most serious air and water pollution problems faced by the community?
* Does the community contribute to pollution production?
* What can the community do to mitigate/address these problems?
* How will the project contribute to behavioral change at the community level?
The consultant will identify projects that
* Address air and water quality issues, (including improvement, monitoring, prevention of air and
water pollution, education and awareness, publications, etc.).
* Are of public benefit.
* Will begin within a month of funding approval.
* Will be completed within a defined period of time (3 - 12 months).
* Are within the project's pilot provinces.
* Present a measurable output.
* Do not involve civil works.
The projects may include the following types of activities:
* Public education and awareness on air and water pollution related issues.
* Activities for changing the polluting behaviors of people.
* Production of simple educational tools and materials on air and water quality.
* Advocacy work among major polluters (including private sector, industry, etc.).
*  Educating and lobbying decision makers to pass more environment-friendly laws, etc.
The DOE will prepare a call for proposals and NGOs will bid to implement these tasks. The Public
Participation Bureau of the DOE will ensure transparency by providing equal access and timely
information to NGOs operating in the pilot provinces (including the selection criteria of NGOs and tasks
expected of them).
- 32 -



Eligibility criteria of implementing NGOs:
* Selected NGOs should be officially registered.
* In operation for at least two years.
* Staff of DOE cannot be board members of bidding NGOs.
Project Selection Process: Bids submitted by NGOs will be reviewed by the National Expert Committee.
The proposals submitted by NGOs in the provinces will be reviewed by the respective Provincial
Steering Committee. The EMSP's procurement specialist will be a member of the selection committees
to ensure that the Bank's procurement guidelines are followed. Projects that do not fall within the
eligibility criteria will be considered with proper justification and approval from the Bank.
Financing: $400,000-$600,00 will be set aside for projects to be implemented by NGOs (about $100,000
per province over four years). No capital investments will be funded under the program. The first year of
project implementation will be devoted to project identification, informing the NGO community about
the availability of these funds, selecting projects and developing a needs-based training program.
$100,000 will be designated for training NGOs and sharing and documenting their experiences over the
life of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Line ministries, municipalities and NGOs will develop project-specific
monitoring indicators to assess impacts. These monitoring indicators should also include measurements
for assessing the quality of the partnership with the DOE.
Examples of Pilot Projects Promoting Private-Public Partnership through the Green Industry Program.
This activity will improve the ongoing Green Industry Program (GIP) at the DOE in promoting
environmental awareness within the industrial sector by: (i) conducting a pollution load assessment on
the Karoon River and another river (TBD); (ii) classifying and rating industry performance; (iii)
establishing an incentive system for best performers; (iv) developing voluntary performance contracts for
industries not complying with national water quality standards; (v) assisting industries in the adoption of
clean technology, minimizing waste and internalizing the cost of pollution prevention. First-year
deliverables of the program will include: (i) a report on environmental performance rating
methodologies, (ii) a computerized system for storing data and generating performance ratings, and (iii)
environmental performance disclosure procedures that can be used by the DOE. In the following years,
the program will be updated and revised to gradually ensure that GIP participants improve their water
quality management and performance ratings.
Partnering with Municipalities: The project will support the municipality of Tehran in installing
electronic billboards connected to the central monitoring station for live updates of pollution levels. DOE
may finance the broadcasting of public awareness video clips produced by the municipality of Tehran on
mitigating the effects of traffic pollution. In Isfahan, the municipality and DOE plan on expanding the
"Green Space" program to reduce air pollution.
Partnerships with NGOs: (1) Support for NGOs in Isfahan in monitoring polluting industries and
lobbying legislators to design zoning laws for industrial areas. (2) Changing people's polluting behaviors,
such as educating target populations for behavioral change to reduce air pollution. (3) Production of
simple tools and materials (brochures, billboards, etc.) that target specific localities and populations to
reduce water and air pollution. (4) Clean energy project to promote the use of renewable sources of
energy. (5) Studies on conversion of waste water into clean water for use in agricultural activities in
southern Tehran. (6) Educating and lobbying decision makers to pass environmental-friendly laws. (7)
Advocacy work among private sector polluters.
- 33 -



Partnerships with Ministries: (1) The Ministry of Industry and Mining and the DOE will conduct joint
specialized training and workshops on industrial wastewater treatment and industrial air pollution;
training programs in Isfahan targeting small industries and factories which so far have not benefited from
such programs. Research collaboration on industrial pollution is also an important area. (2) The Ministry
of Agriculture will conduct studies on assessing the risks of pesticides in water used for irrigation and
their impact on marine life. (3) The Ministry of Energy: the ministry's research institute, Niroo Research
Institute, collects data on pollution from power plants (both air and water) and conducts research studies
on the subject. They can make these data accessible to the DOE and provide them with technical
assistance in its industrial air pollution management.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.80 million
Training and Public Awareness Programs to Improve Air and Water Quality.
Sub-component 1- Strengthen Environmental Training in Air and Water Quality
Under this subcomponent and with the support of the World Bank Institute, the DOE's Institute for
Applied Environmental Science and Research (LAESR) will develop environmental training programs in
air and water quality management. The courses are likely to be offered by the IAESR in Tehran, and
through partnership with universities and training institutes in the pilot provinces. Courses will be
designed to (i) improve the performance of public sector personnel and NGOs involved in the
management of water and air activities (through short and focused workshops and seminars) and (ii)
provide technical and applied two-year degree programs. It will also finance the purchase of equipment
for the IAESR, upgrade a water and air laboratory, and rehabilitate a dormitory to accommodate girls
near the training center.
Sub-component 2 - Environmental Awareness
This sub-component will strengthen the DOE's capacity to undertake public awareness campaigns on air
and water quality issues. The activities will focus on (i) better informing the public on air and water
pollution; (ii) improving their understanding of the potential consequences of air and water pollution on
human health and the natural environment; and (iii) encourage mitigation and aversive behaviors.
Activities financed under this sub-component also include the development of a public awareness
strategy for the DOE, the preparation of tv and radio clips and mass publications. Surveys evaluating the
knowledge and behavioral changes of respondents will also be undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of
the outreach program.
Project Component 4 - US$1.40 million
Project Management and Coordination
This component will finance the incremental costs necessary for the establishment and operation of a
project coordination team within the DOE. The project coordination team will include four
environmental specialists, financial and procurement specialists, and a project coordinator. Training will
be provided to the project team, especially in project management, procurement and financial
management. This training could also be extended to other DOE staff. Under this component, a financial
audit firm will be retained as well as a procurement advisor.
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
*40 , -  ->z -. ..-  :-*                          a   .¢: r lL>^ fr__; , - ;~ 'cFore gnr, .i TotaI
O-*  f-  jrojeffCosgByyComponent- r- X; F.>.- -US n$milfion  - US$millron: _.US,$million
1. Strengthening institutional capacity to monitor air and water  0.30  13.10    13.40
quality
2. Building partnership through pilot environmental projects  1.50    1.00        2.50
3. Training and public awareness programs to improve air and  2.80    1.00        3.80
water quality'
4. Project management and coordination                   0.50        0.90          1.40
Total Baseline Cost                                      5.10        16.00        21.10
Physical Contingencies                                  0.03        0.00          0.03
Price Contingencies                                     0.37         1.30     .   1.67
Total Project Costs'             5.50        17.30        22.80
Front-end fee                   0.20         0.20
Total Financing Required             5.50        17.50        -23.00
. -7  22 - --  j g o r  - .E <. 2! ttocai-  o * regn  -Ttl'
Goods                                                     1.00         10.90        11.90
Works                                                     0.70          0.00         0.70
Services                                                  3.40          5.10         8.50
Unallocated                                               0.40       - 1.30.         1.70
Total Project Costs'     5.50        17.30        22.80
Front-end fee                   0.20         0.20
Total Financing Required     5.50         17.50        23.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 23 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 86.96% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 35 -



Annex 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
A techriical assistance project does not usually require an economic analysis because of the difficulty
involved in quantifying project benefits. An attempt, however, has been made under the current project to
monetize some of the potential benefits. The interpretation of the analysis should be cautious as it only
provides an indication of the economic viability of the project. The economic analysis presented in
Annex 4 (and further detailed in the project file) gives an indication of the range of economic rate of
return only if the project is used within a broader strategy of pollution control. It is important to note that
investing in air and water quality monitoring will not in and of itself generate direct benefits. However, if
the proposed project is used within a strategy of pollution control, incremental benefits - above and
beyond those of the pollution control program alone - are likely to occur. These benefits are mainly
associated with a reduction in negative impacts on health.
Due to the major air pollution problem faced by large metropolitan cities in Iran, the government is
planning comprehensive pollution control programs. The "Comprehensive Program of Air Pollution
Reduction in Tehran" foresees expenditure of $2 billion over the next ten years to tackle pollution
resulting from the transport sector alone. Similar plans are under preparation for 6 other cities in Iran. An
Integrated Water Management System for the Karoon River is also under preparation to help identify
pollution control measures for the river.
An essential aspect of any pollution control program is the extent to which ambient air and water quality
is improved at least cost. In this respect, an air and water quality monitoring network can be an important
instrument to achieve a higher effectiveness in pollution control measures. Such a network provides
credible monitoring data and the opportunity to assess the impact of pollution sources on ambient air and
water quality. It also helps identify hot spots and sensitive areas where pollution is having the largest
negative impacts. This information will allow policy makers to improve the targeting of pollution control
measures and achieve greater pollution reduction at lower cost.
While it is difficult to predict the exact increase in the effectiveness of pollution control that can result
from a monitoring network, the economic analysis considers a conservative range of 0.5-1 percent
incremental reduction in the impacts of current ambient pollution levels (above and beyond reductions
from a pollution control program that does not benefit from a monitoring network). It should be
emphasized, however, that most of the potential benefits of the network can only be realized if the
network serves within a broader pollution control program. Moreover, the magnitude of the benefits
depends on the extent of the program and effective utilization of the monitoring network. As these factors
are at this point unknown, the economic analysis presented here provides only an indication of the
economic rate of return of the project if, and only if, the network is utilized for the purposes discussed
above. Nevertheless, the economic analysis can provide an indication of the plausibility of the economic
viability of the network.
Benefits of Improved Air Quality Monitoring
1. Improved Targeting of Pollution Control. A good monitoring network can provide local authorities
with information to identify and target pollution sources that disproportionately impact ambient air
quality and public health. Targeting with a monitoring network will in turn generate larger benefits than
the same investment in pollution control without a network. For the four project cities -Arak, Isfahan,
Mashad and Tehran- the health benefits of increased pollution control effectiveness equivalent to a 1-2
ug/m3 reduction in ambient PM10 are estimated at $4.1 million - $8.2 million per year, phased in at
0.2-0.4 ug/m3 per year during the 5 years following completion of project implementation. The health
- 36 -



benefits (i.e. reduced premature mortality, hospital admissions, emergency room visits, restrictions in
daily activity, and respiratory symptoms) of the improvement in ambient PMIO are estimated based on
dose response coefficients from international studies and valued at the willingness-to-pay for a reduction
in the risk of death and illnesses avoidance (based on US and European studies, adjusted to Iran by GDP
per capita differentials).
2. Improving Public Alert System. Elevated increases in daily ambient air pollution levels have also been
found to result in daily increases in premature mortality, hospital and emergency room visits, restrictions
in daily activity, and respiratory symptoms. Thus a public alert system to announce anticipated elevated
levels of pollution (such as PM10) can reduce negative impacts on health by advising the public to avoid
strenuous activity and avoid areas with high pollution levels. Estimating annual days of public alert and
incremental increases in PMlO are based on variations in observed daily monitoring data for Tehran (and
extrapolated to the other project cities) and providing a public alert on days for which pollution levels
exceed 90 percent of daily averages (using a normal distribution function). Estimated health benefits of a
0.5-1 percent reduction in overall negative impacts on health due to incremental increases in pollution
(on average 37 ug/m3) during 40 days per year are estimated at $0.2 rnillion - $0.4 million per year for
the four project cities.
Benefits of Improved Water Quality Monitoring
1. Improved Targeting of Pollution Control. The heavily polluted water of the Karoon River is having
significant impacts on human health. This analysis is limited to child mortality and morbidity resulting
from diarrhea diseases. Under five mortality, due to diarrhea illness from water pollution, is estimated at
215 deaths per year in the cities that receive potable water from the Karoon river in the project province.
Using a value of statistical life of US $0.2 million (derived from the willingness-to-pay for a reduction in
the risk of death), the damage costs are estimated at $43 million annually. Cases of diarrhea morbidity
are also high among children. Converting diarrhea episodes into Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs)
Years of life lost due to illness indicate that 1650 DALYs are lost every year due to morbidity. Using
GDP per capita to value a DALY, the cost of morbidity is estimated at $3 million annually. Health
damage costs from water pollution is thus estimated at about $46 million per year. These costs represent
the potential benefits that could accrue from investing in pollution control. The benefits of an increase in
pollution control effectiveness of 0.5-1 percent are estimated at $0.25-0.5 million per year, phased in
over 5 years after completion of project implementation. It is important to remember that this analysis is
limited to the impact of diarrhea disease on children only. If one considers other forms of waterbome
diseases and include adults, the benefits of pollution control would almost certainly be higher.
2. Reducing pumping, transport and treatment costs. In addition to direct impacts on human health, the
poor water quality of the Karoon River is also generating substantial incremental treatment, pumping and
transport costs. In low flow periods high quality water from distant well fields is transferred and mixed
with river water. Currently about 140 million cubic meters per year are being treated, of which 5 percent
is transported from Gotvand some 250 kilometers from Ahwaz. The cost of pumping and transporting the
water is estimated at $0.6 rmillion per year. The incremental cost of water treatment is estimated at $1.4
million per year. In addition, if water quality does not improve, DOE Khuzustan expects that supplying
potable water to downstream cities will require an additional investment of $125 million to transport
cleaner water for mixing with river water. Improving water quality has the potential to reduce the
additional cost of pumping, transport, and treatment as well as the necessity for future pipeline extension.
However, these potential benefits are not included in the analysis because of the difficulty of assessing
the extent of this reduction.
- 37 -



3. Other potential benefits: In addition to experiencing a declining quality of life (premature deaths, pain
and suffering from illness), people supplied potable water from the Karoon River also suffer economic
losses (e.g. need for additional treatment costs), losses in fishery production, and loss of environmental
opportunities (e.g. reduced recreational values) due to river pollution. Potential reductions in these losses
from improved targeting of pollution sources are not quantified because of data limitations.
Summary of Project Costs
Project costs include air and water monitoring stations, training, capacity building and outreach
activities, small environmental projects, and project management costs. It also accounts for the operation
and maintenance costs of the monitoring network over the lifetime of the equipment. Estimated project
costs during the implementation period (5 years) are $23 million, and over the life of the equipment $27
million. The present value of the costs, at a discount rate of 12 percent, is estimated at $19 million.
Main Assumptions
The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is based on the following: (i) a project
implementation period of 5 years; (ii) useful equipment life of 10 years after implementation; (iii) full
realization of project benefits 5 years after project implementation (prorated linearly for each of the 5
years for all benefits with the exception of the public alert system that is expected to be effective at the
end of project implementation); (iv) benefits from air quality monitoring are limited to PM 10 (not
including ozone, sulfur dioxide, NOx, CO, etc.) to be conservative; and (e) benefits from water quality
monitoring are limited to diarrhea diseases (not including potential reductions in water treatment cost and
mixing water pumping costs, and the impacts of pollution on irrigated agriculture, fisheries, recreation,
and ecosystems). Annualized potential project benefits, econormic rate of return, and net present value of
project benefits and costs are presented in Table A4. With a 0.5-1 percent incremental reduction in the
impact of air and water pollution, quantified annualized project benefits are estimated at $1.7 million -
$3.5 million per year. The corresponding ERR is 4-16 percent.
Table A4: Annualized Potential Project Benefits
Project Benefits  Project Benefits
($ million)     ($ million)
Benefits (percentage increase in the effectiveness of pollution control  0.5%          1%
measures)
Air quality public alert system
-health benefits (associated with PM 10)                              0.13             0.25
-health benefits associated with other pollutants               _     _    _
Improved air pollution control targeting
-health benefits (of PM 10 reductions)                                1.5              3.0
-health benefits of other pollutants
-amenities, soil degradation, building corrosion                ___
Improved water pollution control targeting
-health benefits                                                      0.08            0.17
-economic benefits (savings in incremental water transfer and treatment)  -
-natural resource benefits (fisheries, agriculture, ecological)
-environmental opportunities (recreational benefits)            _     _   _
Total annualized project benefits                                      1.71             3.42
ERR                                                                   3.7%            16.5%
Annualized over 15 years (from first year of project implementation to end of equipment life).
- 38 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Years Ending
Total Fi g       Year 1        5.Year 2  Year 3     .Year  Year 5  Y    .ar 6  Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          1.4       5.7       5.6       5.2       2.6       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs          0.1       0.2       0.4       0.7       0.9       0.0      0.0
Total Project C0ots         1.5       0.9       6.0       5.9       3.5      0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   0.2        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
.Total Financing            1.7       5.9       6.0       5.9       3.5       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 1.3        5.4       5.4       5.3      2.4       0.0       0.0
Government               0.1        0.3       0.4       0.4      0.9       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0        ° °      0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        .0000
Co-financiers            0.1        0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.2        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    1.7       5.9       6.0       5.9       3.5      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 39 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement
A.     Procurement
General
1. The Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Iran is scheduled for FY03/04. The public
Accounting Law governs the current procurement system in Iran and the relevant procurement section of
the law has not changed since 1971. The law provides for a decentralized environment and flexibility in
conducting public procurement. There is no governing body for public procurement oversight and the
national procedures for procurement of works, goods and service were found to be wanting in several
areas. The government is in the process of changing the procedures for the bidding process and a draft
law is under preparation. However, further revisions are needed to make the procedures acceptable.
Use of Bank Guidelines and Standard Bidding Documents
2. Procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999). For ICB and NCB procurement of goods, Bank standard
bidding documents for the procurement of goods will be used while for shopping method, the PCT will
use simplified documents and procedures that are acceptable to the Bank. For all evaluation reports under
ICB and NCB methods, the standard bid evaluation form for the "Procurement of Goods or Works" will
be used.
3. Procurement of services will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997,
January 1999, and May 2002). Standard Request For Proposal (RFP) for Selection of Consultants and the
standard forms of contract will be used for all contracts above US$100,000 equivalent. A simplified
version of the standard RFP and contracts will be used for contracts below US$100,000 equivalent and
short term assignments. Selection of individual consultants will be carried out by comparison of CVs and
using simplified contracts, acceptable to the Bank. For the selection process of firms, the Sample Form of
Evaluation Report for Selection of Consultants will be used.
Advertising
4. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development Business
(UNDB) and at least two local newspapers. The GPN will list all contracts for goods that will be
procured under ICB, and all contracts for consulting firm services estimated at more than US$100,000
equivalent. GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement. Specific Procurement Notices
(SPN), and Expressions of Interest (EOI) for consulting contracts estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 will be prepared for the individual procurement actions where necessary. With respect to
consulting contracts, only the shortlisted firms identified through EOI will receive the Request for
Proposals (RFP).
-40 -



Procurement Capacity
5. An assessment of procurement capacity of the DOE indicates relatively high risks at the DOE, Project
Coordination Team (PCT). In consideration of the fact that procurement officer has just been hired and
does not have any experience in Bank procurement procedures and guidelines, there is no capacity and
experience in PCT on procurement-related activities. Unless outside support (i.e. hiring of a senior
procurement advisor) is provided within the PCT, it is likely that PCT capacity will be inadequate to
handle the procurement workload under the project. Discussions with the project's PCT have confirmed
that the capacity to implement and conduct procurement is severely constrained because of lack of
capacity within government. Accordingly, it has been agreed that a senior procurement advisor,
short-term procurement consultant and a long term procurement officer be engaged by the PCT as early
as possible in order that government agencies implementing the project be assisted with the whole
procurement process; The senior procurement advisor will be selected on a competitive basis using
quality based selection. The senior procurement advisor and the procurement officer will work with all
regional and sub-regional units to prepare annual procurement plans, bidding documents, and bid
evaluation reports. Another capacity constraint is in the area of contract management. Since the
procurement plan calls for a number of large value contracts with implementation periods of more than
one year, unless the capacity for contract administration is enhanced, project implementation may be
delayed with sub-standard delivery of services/goods by the consultants/suppliers. Accordingly, it has
been agreed that a contract manager will be hired by the PCT who can also provide training to other
counterparts in the PCT and the provincial DOE offices.
Procurement Plan
6. The procurement plan is on file. This plan has been discussed, finalized, and agreed upon during
negotiations. It includes details for all activities prior to loan effectiveness as well as for the life of the
project (except for the component 2 where the projects will be demand driven and their identification at
this point is not possible). PCT will be responsible for the regular annual update of the procurement plan
for the project. Procurement of all goods, works, and services will be undertaken in accordance with this
plan as approved bv the Bank.
Institutional Arrangement
7. Overall coordination of project implementation will be done by the PCT of the DOE, with each
provincial DOE office responsible for implementation of their relevant work program. All major
procurement activities for components 1, 2, 3, and 4 will be handled and coordinated centrally by the
PCT with participation of the relevant provincial DOE office and with respect to the preparation of
technical specifications and terms of reference. Ownership of the signed contracts will be with the
respective provincial DOE office with support from the PCT on contract management.
-8. Central procurement activities under the project, will be handled by hiring of a team of two: a senior
procurement advisor (short term) and a procurement officer (full time). The senior advisor should be
experienced and fully knowledgeable of Bank procurement guidelines. The senior advisor will be
responsible for setting up the project's procurement process and training the procurement officer. Terms
of reference have been prepared for both positions and are attached to this document. International and
national advertisements for the procurement advisor will be carried out as early as possible and prior to
the Bank's board date. The advisor will be hired before the credit effectiveness and will start the
procurement process for the more pressing procurement activities including, preparation of expression of
interest for hiring of the main TA consultancy contract; preparation of a shortlist, TOR, and request for
proposal for the TA consultancy; preparation of the pre-qualification documents; advertisement for
-41 -



procurement of the air and water quality monitoring stations; preparation of specifications and bidding
documents for the procurement of air and water monitoring stations; hiring the financial management
officer to manage the accounting and financial management systems; hiring a fim for the initial
information campaign program; and other required items for institutional capacity strengthening. To
build capacity at the local level, the procurement team will also provide procurement training workshops
at the national and provincial levels. The Bank's operations team will monitor the performance of the
procurement team and will also provide support where required.
9. Procurement performance will be assessed on an annual basis by the Bank. In addition to the annual
reviews, ad hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically. For the first year of operation, it is
recommended that the procurement arrangements be reviewed after six months to fine tune the activities
and ensure that the proposed arrangement sufficiently covers the needs of the program. A procurement
specialist from the Bank should undertake this review.
Procurement Methods
Civil Works
10. The total cost of works is estimated at US$0.56 million for the entire project as detailed below. The
procurement of all works activities will be the responsibility of the PCT.
11. No large civil works are scheduled for the project. Contracts for small works estimated to cost less
than US$150,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$700,000 equivalent may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, basic forms of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the
contractors offering the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they
have the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
12. Contracts for small works estimated to cost more than US$150,000 equivalent per contract are
ineligible for financing under the project.
Goods
13. The total cost of goods is estimated at US$9.77 million for the entire project as detailed below. The
procurement and timely distribution of goods will be the responsibility of the PCT.
14. Except as provided in paragraph 15 below, goods that are estimated to cost more than US$300,000
equivalent per contract will be subject to prior review and will be procured through Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Procurement will be bulked where feasible into packages valued
at US$100,000 equivalent or more. In cases of consolidated procurement of goods by the PCT (air and
water monitoring stations), the PCT needs to devise a system acceptable to the Bank whereby through
structured bidding documents and contract monitoring procedures the delivery and installation of goods
will be spread over a multi-year timeframe. There are high risks involved with respect to actual
monitoring and implementation of such a process and careful consideration should be given to all details
before such a system is in place.
-42 -



15. Goods that are estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract and less than
US$300,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US $1,000,000 will be
subject to prior review and will be procured through the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) method.
National advertisements, bidding documents that are acceptable to the Bank, and public bid opening will
be used for all NCB procurement actions including printing and publishing of environmental books under
component 3 of the project. Any prospective bidder from a country eligible under Bank procurement
guidelines shall be eligible to bid for such contracts. Considering the relatively large size of the
environmental books procurement actions, a pre-qualification process should be carried for identification
of the publishing houses with the qualifications and capacity for the size of the jobs at hand.
16. All shopping procedures will follow the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Para. 3.5 and 3.6) and the
June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued by the Bank.
17. Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000 equivalent will be procured through international/national shopping. Office furniture and
production of PR materials for which capacity exists in the country and in the case of the latter requires
proximity to the client for editing and proof reading may be procured through National Shopping. The
aggregate value of contracts that will be awarded under this procedure will not exceed US$200,000
equivalent. Any direct contracting for goods valued at below US$ 5,000 subject to an aggregate value of
less than US$ 50,000 per annum, per regional and sub-regional Implementing Units should be agreed
upon as part of the annual reviews of their respective work programs. These being largely for the purpose
of operations, maintenance, office, and stationery expenses. Standard request forms, and the
establishment of guidelines for conduct of the shopping method as per the June 9, 2000 Memorandum.
"Guidance on Shopping" should be prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
These aggregate limits exclude contracts under component 2.
18. Special equipment spare parts (i.e. air ana water monitoring equipment) in packages costing less than
US$10,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 may be procured directly from the original
manufacturers or suppliers.
Pilot Environmental Projects
19. The project will support pilot environmental projects to build partnerships with municipalities,
NGOs, universities, and line ministries for environment-related activities. The total cost for this activity
(component 2) is US$2.5 million equivalent. The component will finance environment-related activities,
including, goods, and procurement of consultancy services for environmental awareness and promotion,
and other interventions at the regional, and sub-regional levels. Since it is not possible to determine the
exact mix of goods and services to be procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature,
the detailed procurement activities under this component will be provided in the updated annual
procurement plans. There will be no. differentiation between this component and other project
components with respect to the use of the procurement methods provided for the project.
20. Work-programs under Component 2 will depend on applications received from Municipalities,
NGOs, universities, and line ministries against a positive list of activities. It is not possible to determine
the exact mix of works, goods, and services to be procured under these activities due to their
demand-driven nature. Funding for these activities will be in the form of grants. Therefore, the types of
activities to be financed under these activities and their procurement details will depend on the needs
identified under the sub-project. Large works contracts and vehicles are ineligible for financing under
component 2. The DOE through the PCT will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these
- 43 -



guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank, and
independent firms/ consultants appointed by PCT.
Consulting Services
21. The total cost of consultant services is estimated at US$6.55 million equivalent for the entire project
(including the training and component 2) as detailed below. The consultancy services required will be
mostly in the areas of technical assistance on environmental policies/strategies, research, trainers,
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, the information campaign, auditing, and
accounting. The exact mix (types of consultancy, budgets, procurement methods) will be provided in the
updated annual procurement plan and will be discussed and agreed with the Bank annually during joint
reviews.
22. Except as detailed below, consulting services with firms at an estimated contract value above
US$100,000 will be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms (selected through
advertisement of expression of interest) based on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) whereby the
quality of the technical proposals are given the highest scores and the evaluation of the technical
proposals are carried out before opening the financial proposals (section II, para. 2.1 - 2.28 of the
Consultant Guidelines). Consulting services with individuals at an estimated contract value above
US$50,000 will be selected through competition among qualified short listed individuals based on the
Quality Based Selection (QBS) method (section Im, para. 3.2 - 3.4 of the Consultants Guidelines). Prior
to starting the selection process, the TOR, RFP, short list, and cost estimate should be submitted to the
Bank for review and clearance.
23. Consultancy services contracts with firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate of $400,000 will be selected through Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) method (Para. 3.7 of the Consultant's Guidelines).
24. Consultants for financial audits estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract up to
an aggregate of US$200,000 equivalent will be selected through Least Cost Selection method (para. 3.1
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines).
25. Consultancy contracts with individuals at estimated contract values below US$50,000 will be
selected according tots for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant Guidelines
will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants method individuals
(section V. para. 5.1-5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines). Individual consultants (IC) will be selected
through comparison of the TOR requirements against the qualifications of at least three candidates
among those expressing interest in the assignment or those approached directly. For both firms and
individual contracts, single source selection may be used only on an exceptional basis, with prior
agreement by the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines. All terms of reference for consultancy services are subject to prior agreements
with the Bank. To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national
consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 equivalent may be composed entirely
of national consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines)
provided that a sufficient number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available at
competitive cost. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from
consideration. For Component 2 with assignments that emphasize participation and considerable local
knowledge, the shortlist may consist entirely of NGOs. If so, the QCBS procedure shall be followed, and
the evaluation criteria shall reflect the unique qualifications of NGOs, such as voluntarism, nonprofit
-44 -



status, local knowledge, scale of operation, and reputation. (an NGO may be selected on a single source
basis, provided the criteria outlined in Section 3.9 of the Consultants Guidelines are followed). The
standard Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by the Bank will be used for requesting proposals, and
for selection and appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assignments -- simple missions of a standard nature (i.e., those not exceeding six months) carried out by
individual consultants or firms. The government has been briefed about the special features of Bank
guidelines and the RFP, in particular with regard to advertisement, public bid opening, and evaluation
criteria.
Training and Workshops
26. The total cost is estimated at US$1.3 million. Training, workshops, and study tours will be carried out
on the basis of approved annual programs that will identify the general framework of training activities
for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of trainees, and cost
estimates. The training institutions for all workshops/training with costs exceeding US$5,000 should be
identified within the annual program. Where training costs exceeds US$20,000, the selection of the
training institution should be based on a competitive process preferably using the QBS method of
selection. Any and all "out of country" training is subject to prior review by the Bank. Post-reviews will
be conducted from time to time to review the selection of institutions/course contents/ trainees and
justifications thereof, and costs incurred.
Prior Review
27. All ICB and NCB procurement for goods will require prior review by the Bank. The first three goods
contracts using international and national shopping will require prior review by the Bank. The first three
minor works contracts, and works contracts costing the equivalent of US$70,000 or more will require
prior review by the Bank. Contracts with consulting firms costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more
and contracts with individual consultants costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or more will require prior
review by the Bank. All single-sourced selection of consultants and direct contracting of
suppliers/contractors will require prior review by the Bank. These prior review requirements will also
apply to pilot projects under component 2.
-45 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 23 million equivalent)
-   ;- ~     .     . , -         - - - Procurement Method-'!
K   Expenditure Category        ICB     -.    NCB         Other  . . N.B.F; - Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          0.00         0.67        0.00      0.67
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.56)      (0.00)     (0.56)
2. Goods                        9.08          0.62         0.20        0.00       9.89
(9.08)        (0.52)      (0.17)      (0.00)     (9.77)
3. Services /Training           0.00           0.00        7.41       0.900       8.31
(0.00)        (0.00)      (6.55)      (0.00)     (6.55)
4. Operating Costs              0.00           0.00        2.25        0.00       2.25
(0.00)        (0.00)      (1.24)      (0.00)     (1.24)
5. Front-end fee                0.00          0.00         0.20        0.00       0.20
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.20)      (0.00)     (0.20)
6. Unallocated                  0.00          0.00         1.68        0.00       1.68
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.68)     (0.00)     (1.68)
Total                         9.08          0.62         12.41       0.90      23.00
(9.08)        (0.52)       (10.40)    (0.00)     (20.00)
-46 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; Other: International
shopping, National shopping, Direct contracting
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
'Contract Value, -    -                      .-CotactsiSbjet to
u -   e'Threhols''  - I  'P rocurement     j     ,  ror. eview'
Expenditure Categor    -(US$ thousand-sj)'. -- 4,  .-- Method-= -J '   - t(  $t ouSa-s j-'
1'. Works                     <US$150           At least three quotations  Bank to review first 3
Minor works                                    from qualified contractors    contracts and
> US$70
All others post-review
2. Goods                      >US$300                   ICB                  All contracts
>US$ 100 and < US$300           NCB                  All contracts
InternationalV       Bank to review first 3
<US$100                                   contracts using shopping
National Shopping       method. All others
post-review.
<US$10           Direct contracting: spares   All contracts
3. Services                 >=US$ 100 and      QCBS/CQ/LCS/ other (will   >US$ 100 (for firms)
Firms                         <US$100          be determined from annual
plans)
Individuals  '     -           <US$50                 Individual        >US$50 (for individuals)
>US$50                    QBS
4. Training, Workshops,       >=US$20               CQ/QBS/Other         Post-review, but annual
Study Tours                                                            plans to be reviewed by the
Bank
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$11.6 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 4 months in the first year of
project implementation and thereafter every
6 months. In addition, ad hoc reviews and
audits will be done by the Bank
procurement specialist or an appointed
consultant. months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-47 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
1. Summary of Financial Management (FM) Assessment Based on a review of the FM arrangements at
the DOE/PCT, the financial management system in place is intended to meet the minimum requirements of
the Bank for accounting and financial reporting through the following measures: (i) appointment of a
Financial Management Specialist (FMS) to manage financial operations and reporting for the PCT, and (ii)
preparation of a comprehensive Project Implementation Manual (PIM) for financial management operations.
The FMS has already been appointed. The appointment of an FMS allows production of quarterly FMR
(Financial Monitoring Reports), and the annual PFS (Project Financial Statements) in a timely manner. The
procedures contained in the PIM provide an adequate level of segregation of duties and a clear division of
responsibilities.
2. The financial management issues that merit particular attention in project implementation are the
following: (a) institution of an effective financial management information system capable of generating the
reports required by the Bank; and (b) appointment of the independent auditors to perform the annual audit to
standards that will meet the Bank's requirements and guidelines. It is expected that the DOE/PCT will need
a period of at least three (3) months to implement item (a) listed above. In the interim, the PCT will use
computer spreadsheets to facilitate preparation of the reports required by the Bank. Should there be a need, a
qualified consultant will be appointed to upgrade the accounting and reporting system. A TOR for the
appointment of the consultant has also been drafted.
3. Risk Analysis. The table below presents a summary assessment of the FM and audit arrangements for
the operations of the PCT, where all FM operations will take place. A Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
has been prepared to provide guidance to project staff in the context of financial and related management.
The FMS will undergo training on financial management.
Risk                     Risk             Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating
Executing Agencies
DOEIPMU. First-time implementation of a       M    Cross support from the office of the FC of the MOEAF at
Bank-funded project with less experienced staff may  the DOE to the financial staff of the PCT will be
result in inadequate and inconsistent implementation  maintained.
of financial management arrangements.
Partnership Projects. A new project in a new area with
new guidelines that will be applied for the first time.  S  Cross support from the FC's office with the staff of the
PCT will be solely responsible for all FM          PCT will be maintained on a regular and case by case
arrangements of the partnership projects.          basis.
Flow of Funds and Financing
Coordination between the FMS when requesting funds  N  During the project supervision, regular reviews will be
from the Bank and the FC when requesting counterpart  carried out to ensure that arrangements for replenishment
funds for each specific component may require close  are effective and functioning smoothly.
and regular supervision due to the newness of the
project.
Documentation of in-kind financing of counterpart   rhere will be: (i) an early appointment of auditors well
- 48 -



funds for audit purposes, may be time-consuming and  M  before the implementation of the related components; (ii)
costly.                                                an agreement with the borrower on a specific TOR for the
audit; and (iii) increased supervision.
Staffing
Familiarization with Bank policies, the pace of the  S  Regular supervision to ensure transfer of experience from
project's FMS, and use of computer models/programs     the staff of the FC's office to the PCT staff in conjunction
for financial recording and reporting may be slow.     with the implementation of the procedures contained in
'__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   .the  PIM .
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The project is implemented as part of the Government  M  Regular supervision during implementation to ensure that
Development budget and is thus subject to the          egulations on public expenditure are strictly enforced.
regulations governing public expenditure in Iran. A
CFAA which would assess risks associated with budget   Auditor to review the internal control mechanisms.
processes has not yet been carried out.
Flow of Financial Information
Coordination between the FC's office that is responsible  S  Regular supervision will be carried out to ensure transfer
for payments and recording for budget purposes, and the  of experience from the staff of the office of the FC to the
FMS that is responsible for accounting and reporting for  new staff, in conjunction with the implementation of the
project purposes due to the first time implementation of  procedures contained in the PIM.
a Bank project may-require close and regular
supervision.
Internal Audit
Internal audit is limited to compliance with verification  M  Regular review of the disbursement requests by the DOE
procedures for work carried out by the office of the FC  nd the SOE during supervision.
and follows budget execution procedures. This
administrative compliance review is limited in scope.
The double function of the FC as the Financial
Controller and as the Government Treasurer for the
Development Budget at the MOI also poses a risk.
External Audit
A review has not yet been carried out to determine the  M  There will be an agreement with the borrower on an
capability of the auditors in performing an audit in line  greed and specific TOR for the annual audit, and review
with Bank requirements. An additional semi-annual      of the quality of the audit reports.
SOE review is not recommended due to the low
volume of activity through the SOE throughout the life
of the project.
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial reports may not provide the information  M   Forms for financial reporting are prepared and included in
required by the Bank.                                  he PIM. Regular supervision will be carried out to ensure
that the accounting system is properly maintained for the
complete and timely reporting of information.
Information systems
The financial system will be initially maintained  S   PIM provides a TOR for selection of local expert
manually since there is no accounting software in use   onsultants to advise on the selection of a suitable
which may prevent comprehensive financial              software for financial management and accounting. The
information to be captured and reported on a timely     onsultants will also adapt and improve the software to
basis.                                                respond to the specific needs of the project in a flexible
manner.
Overall Risk Rating                              S    (i) The absence of country analytical work such as the
CFAA; (ii) lack of a review of the capability of the audit
firms to undertake an audit that will be acceptable to the
Bank, (iii) current lack of familiarity with Bank
procedures, and (iv) the absence of a computerized
accounting system at the start of the project are the factors
-49 -



that could imply a "High" risk rating for the project's
financial management. However, (i) the experience of the
FCs which has demonstrated strict enforcement of budget
regulations; (ii) support from the FC and proposed Bank
training that will be provided; (iii) the existing accounting
and reporting procedures already in place that are in line
with rules and regulations on public finance; and (iv) the
financial management arrangements that will be carried
ut solely at the center in Tehran, constitute the basis for
rating the risk in financial management as "substantial."
*Risk Ranking: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M ( Modest Risk), and N ( Negligible or Low Risk)
4. Project Implementation and Coordination. The project is implemented both in Teheran and in the
regions. At the center in Teheran, the PCT, already set up within the DOE, has the overall responsibility for
project implementation of all project components. A project coordinator for the PCT has already been
appointed by the DOE and an FMS will be recruited to join the staff of the PCT prior to project
effectiveness. In the regions, each office of the DOE is responsible for project management and reporting to
the DOE. Each regional office coordinates its work and reporting functionally with and through the PCT.
5. Financial Management Arrangements. The project was approved by the Supreme Economic Council
and has been included in the Development Budget (the National Budget consists of the Current Budget and
the Development Budget of the Fiscal year 1382 corresponding with March 21, 2003 to March 20, 2004).
Although the project is implemented both in Teheran and in the regions, all of the project's FM activities are
carried out solely in Teheran. The regions that are covered by the project will not be receive any funds
directly. All procurement and purchases will be made at the center. The material accounting and recording is
similarly carried out in Teheran. For the financial management of the project, the PCT is following the
existing regulations in Iran as they relate to the planning and management of the Development Budget, as
further described in the PIM. The PCT is also implementing the action plan contained at the end of the
current annex to discharge its responsibilities in a manner that meets the Bank's requirements for accounting
and financial reporting.
6. Staffing, Accounting, and Flow of Information. The FM activities will flow through the national
budget and be carried out by the Financial Controller (FC). The FC is an employee of the MOEAF who is
assigned to the DOE and located at the MOI. The FC is responsible for the financial management of the
DOE and is a signatory on all bank accounts that the FC is responsible for opening in the name of the DOE,
including project bank accounts as well as foreign currency accounts. The DOEIFC is also responsible for
expenditure commitment, payment approval, the actual payment, and the financial reporting in line with the
budgetary requirements. The DOE/FC performs all functions in line with the regulations governing the
management of public expenditure that are strictly enforced by the MOEAF and subject to audit by the
Supreme Audit Court (SAC) of Iran.
7. The PCT/ FMS also carries out accounting and financial reporting functions in order to produce the
FMRs required by the Bank in a regular, complete and timely manner. The FM activities of the PCT are
coordinated and integrated with the already existing structures at the DOE and its regional offices. The
PCT/FMS is responsible for the overall financial management of the project, annual budgeting, general
accounting and fulfilling supplementary reporting functions required by the Bank. The financial
management responsibilities of the PCT/FMS include budget preparation, expenditure commitment,
effecting expenditure, receipt of goods and services, preparation of forms relating to accounting
transactions, record keeping, verification of supporting documents, reconciling of bank statements, preparing
periodic reports and financial statements, and coordinating financial reporting, and monitoring the Special
- 50 -



Accounts (SA). The project coordinator is one of the two signatories on the SA, the financial controller (FC)
is the other. The FC and the FMS coordinate all information flows for financial management purposes. A
regular (at least monthly) reconciliation between the accounting records of the FC relating to the execution
of the Development Budget at the DOE and the project records kept by the FMS will be carried out by the;
FMS. The reconciliation statements for each of the months falling on the end of each quarter (June 21,
September 21, December 21) will be submitted to the Bank with the FMR reports as discussed further
below. The assignment of responsibilities is shown in table 1 below. The responsibilities and functions
including the statement for the reconciliation just described are covered further in detail in the PIM.
Table 1
BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
s -           -  ~*j$'Process         -, .,~* ',;     P.'   NP., -.r- >-   C . 'C : --  DOF-CT-
A. Project Approval and Insertion in the Development Budget
1. Project Approval by the High Economic Council              X                          X
2. Allocation of Budget Codes to the Project                  X
3. Budget Preparation and Submrission to the Parliament (Insertion of  X                 X
the Project in the Development Budget)
B. Expenditure Execution
1. Budget Allocation (Availability of Counterpart funds)  X and the
MOEAF
2. Determining (initiating) Expenditure                                    X             X
3. Credit Commitment                                                      X
4. Incurring Expenditure,                                                                X
(Effecting Commitment) and Delivery of Goods and Services
5. Liquidation of Commitment                                               X
6. Signing Checks and/or Approving Payment Transfers                       X             X
7. Payment to the Supplier                                                X
8. Request for Funds:
a. Withdrawal Application (Foreign Currency)                                             X
b. Counterpart Funds (Local Currency)                                      X             X
9. Recording Expenditures and Reporting
a. For National Budget Purposes                                           X
b. To meet the Bank's requirements                                                       X
c. Regular reconciliation between a and b above                                          X
C. Control During Execution
1. Pre-audit Functions for:
a. Credit Commitment,                                                     X
b. Liquidation of Commitment                                               X
2. Material and Equipment Accounting and Control                           X              X
D. Records Management
1. Keeping Financial Records and Documents for:
a. Expenditures under the loan                                          X (Copy)     X (Original)
b. Expenditures of counterpart funds, and in-kind                      X(Original)    X (Copy)
- 51 -



', ,'t' .j,Process                ..    MPO         -;--SAC-  l.ndepend      t
.                                                       - -Auditors              h
Control Subsequent to execution
1. A compliance audit of the budget execution for:  An overall review
Expenditures of counterpart funds and contributions.  of project  Regular and
implementation  annual audits
(Not an audit)
2. A financial audit of project execution for:
Expenditures under the loan.                                              Acceptable to the
Bank, an
annual audit- PFS
8. Flow of Funds. The DOE/PCT will establish two accounts, one account in foreign currency for the loan
proceeds and one project account in local currency for the counterpart funds. The DOE/PCT, in cooperation
with the office of the FC at the DOE, is responsible for: (i) managing both accounts, (ii) preparation of
withdrawal applications, (iii) reconciliation of the bank accounts, (iv) cooperation with the Bank's
supervision missions, and (v) coordination with the external auditors on all matters relating to both accounts.
The foreign currency amounts are disbursed by the Bank to the Central Bank of Iran from which funds will
be transferred to the foreign currency account of the DOE. The counterpart funds will be paid into the
Project local currency account of the DOE.
9. Accounting Systenm Project accounting is initially carried out on a manual basis using Excel. A
computer-based financial management information system will be installed within 3 months of the project
start-up to enable the accounting operations to be recorded and thus facilitate the issue of financial reports,
in particular, the FMR and the PFS that need to be prepared directly by the PCT. The computerized
information system will also enable the PCT to carry out a regular analysis of the different aspects of project
implementation (e.g. by component, sub-components or activities).
10. Ilnternal Controls. The internal control procedures currently in place at the DOE/PCT meet the Bank
requirements on internal control procedures and the control environment. These procedures provide
reasonable assurance that: (i) all expenditures and related financial transactions are properly approved and
authorized, (ii) there are safeguards in place for access to and use of government assets, (iii) the rules
regarding management of the financial records are strictly enforced, (iv) there is adequate control over
valuable documents, such as checks, that represent proof of property ownership, and (v) the Head of
Department or assigned staff, as one of the two signatories on bank accounts, will not be directly involved in
accounting and financial management. The PIM defines the procedures that should be followed by the
DOE/PCT to maintain the control environment in line with the requirements of the Bank.
11. Financial Reporting. The DOE/PCT is responsible for the preparation of quarterly FMRs in a form
acceptable to the Bank to be agreed at negotiations. The FMRs will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days
from the end of each quarter of the Hejri calendar (June 21, September 21, December 21). The FMR format
that is included in the PIM includes information relating to the following three sections: (i) FMR- narrative
and tables, (ii) Sources and Uses of Funds Statement, (iii) Uses of Funds by Project Component,
Sub-component and Activity; (iv) Physical Progress Report - physical outputs, (v) Physical Progress Report
- status of large works and services, and (vi) Procurement Management Report - narrative and tables. The
DOE/PCT is also responsible for the preparation of the annual PFS. The PFS includes the following: (a)
Project Balance Sheet, (b) Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, indicating funds received from various
sources and project expenditures, (c) SA Reconciliation Statement, (d) Statement of Withdrawals, indicating
-52 -



withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), (e) Statement of Contract Executions
and Contract Commitments, and (f) Statement of the Physical Stock of Equipment and Material. The audited
PFS will be transmitted to the Bank within 6 months of the closing of the fiscal year. The requirements and
the format for the reports have already been discussed with the DOE and will be agreed upon at the time of
the negotiations. A sample of the reporting forms are included in the PIM.
12. Impact on Procurement Arrangements A procurement assessment of the DOE was undertaken by a
Bank procurement specialist. The recommendations for related risk mitigation are detailed above in Annex
6A. There are no critical impacts on financial management arrangements that would emanate from
procurement arrangements. The two processes are closely linked in terms of management, recording and
monitoring.
2. Audit Arrangements
13. An independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank will be appointed to audit the annual PFS. Project
audits are carried out according to the International Standards of Auditing (ISA) as issued by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and the specific TOR acceptable to the Bank. The
DOE/PCT will submit to the Bank the audited PFS no later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year. The TOR for the audit assignment includes an audit of project transactions and an assessment of the
financial management system, including a review of internal control mechanisms. The PCT and all other
government organizations that will participate in project implementation should provide the auditor with
access to project-related documents and records and any other information required for the audit. The
independent auditor should provide an audit opinion on the PFS, as listed above, in line with the format
issued by the IFAC. The audited PFS will be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible and in any event no
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year. The auditors will also provide a memorandum on the
internal control weaknesses including their suggestions for improving those controls and submit that
memorandum to the PCT for follow-up and implementation.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
14. Flow of funds and withdrawals from the proceeds. Project bank accounts, including the Special
Account (SA) will be maintained at a local bank currently holding other bank accounts of the DOE. The
financial controller in collaboration with the PCT will be responsible for project finances. Disbursement
methods will consist of direct payment, requests for special commitments, replenishment to the SA and
reimbursement applications, either fully documented or using a Statement of Expenditures (SOE) as per
applicable procedures, as necessary. As projected by the Bank's standard disbursement profiles, all
disbursements will be finalized within six months after project completion. Disbursements will be made
against standard Bank documentation.
53 -



Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
15. Allocation of loan proceeds: Allocation of loan proceeds will follow established Standard
Disbursement Percentages (SDP) for Iran and excludes any charges for taxes including sales taxes.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
'- Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage  - -
1. Works                                  0.56                        85%
2. Goods                                  9.77              100% of foreign expenditure;
85% of local expenditure
3. Services, training and workshops       6.55                88% for local consultants
97 % for international consultants
4. Incremental Operating Costs            1.24           95% of FY 2004 to 2006, 75% for FY
2007 and 50% thereafter
5. Front-end-fee                          0.20                        100%
6. Unallocated                            1.68
Total Project Costs                       20.00
Front-end fee        0.00
Total                                     20.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
16. Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). All applications to withdraw funds from the loan proceeds
will be fully documented except: (i) the initial deposit to the Special Account; (ii) expenditures on contracts
with an estimated value less than US$150,000 for goods; (ii) expenditures on contracts with an estimated
value of less than US$100,000 for works, (iii) expenditures on contracts with an estimated value of
US$100,000 or less for consulting firms; and (iv) US$100,000 or less for individual consultants.
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOE will be retained and available for review when
requested by Bank supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements will be subject to the
conditions of the Loan Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special account:
17. Special Account (SA). To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for works, goods, services
and training, the Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at a commercial bank in Iran to
cover eligible project expenditures to be managed and administered by the PCT. Authorized allocation of the
Special Account will be US$1 million covering an estimated three months of eligible expenditures financed
through the SA by the loan. DOEIPCT will be responsible for submitting periodic replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and will retain and make
available documents for review by Bank supervision missions and project auditors. The minimum value of
direct payment requests should be at least US$200,000. The Special Account will be replenished through the
submission of withdrawal applications on a quarterly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and
other documents as required.
- 54 -



18. Action Plan. The timetable for implementation of the project's financial management activities is set
out below.
Action                          -        Due Date            Responsibility
1. Insertion of new account codes by the MPO in the     Already discussed and will be  MPO/DOE/PCT
Development Budget of the DOE. Two new accounts, one for  ready at negotiations.
the loan proceeds and the second for counterpart funds for both
the project and the annual allocations.
2. Training of the FMS in a Bank-funded project in the region.  As soon as the arrangements are Bank/ DOE
made.             -
3. Procurement and set up, and/or development of a financial  Within three months of project  DOE/PCT
management and accounting software that is suitable for use, and  start-up.
responds to the needs, capability and familiarity of the users.
4.-Preparation of the accounting and financial procedures for the  Already completed.  DOEIPCT
project, including a Chart of Accounts, as part of the PIM and as
needed.
Appointment of a consultant for the implementation of the system. Within 2 months of the project  DOE/PCT
startup.
5. Preparation of the format for the FMR.               Is prepared and will be agreed at Bank/ DOE
.___________________________________________ negotiations.
6. Preparation of a detailed Terms of Reference (TOR) for the  Is prepared and will be agreed at Bank/ DOE
project's annual audit.                                 negotiations.
7. Evaluation of the financial management and reporting system  Within 18 months of the project  ank
by the World Bank.                                      start-up.                   _
- 55 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Prolect Schedu!e r ' ' . ,;.' r ~, Planned r                     -    I-- -:d  - d'  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       14                           14
First Bank mission (Identification)              11/15/2001                   01/16/2002
Appraisal mission departure                      01/25/2003                   10/21/2002
Negotiations                                     02/22/2003                   01/22/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/17/2003
Prepared by:
EMSP Team
Preparation assistance:
FAO
Dr. Mojtaba Ardestani (project coordinator), Dr. Majid Shafie-Pour (senior advisor), Ms. Marzieh Jalali (liaison
expert), Mehrvash Khajevandi (air specialist), Ms. Homeira Shahsavand (air specialist), Ms. Zahra Jabbari (water
specialist), Ms. Homeira Ekhtari (water specialist), Ms. Haleh Samadi (administrative assistant)
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     Speciality
Sherif Arif                        Regional Environment Coordinator
Mohammed Bekhechi                  Lead Counsel
Meskerem Brhane                    Social Scientist
Anne Carlin                        Editor (Consultant)
Bruce Harris                       Peer Reviewer
Steve Linter                       Peer Reviewer
Rusdian Lubis                      Sr. Environrment Specialist
Nezam Motabar                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Sylvie Pittman                     Language Program Assistant
Magalie Pradel                     Language Program Assistant
John-Keith Rennie                  Sr. Social Scientist
Maria Sarraf                       Environmental Economist
Kanthan Shankar                    Task Team Leader
Konrad Von Ritter                  Peer Reviewer
Peter Whitford                     Consultant
Mahtab Zolghadri                   Procurement Specialist (Consultant)
- 56 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
-A draft PIP has been submitted by the PCU to the Bank and is under review
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Lessons Learned in Designing and lmplementing Environmental Technical Assistance Project, prepared
by Nola Chow, October 2002
Economic Analysis, prepared by Maria Sarraf and Bjorn Larsen, December 2002
Rapid Needs Assessment in Environmental Training and Outreach, prepared by Maria Sarraf, January
2002
Rapid Institutional Assessment of the Department of Environment, prepared by Rusdian Lubis, March
2002
Rapid Legal Assessment, prepared by Mohammed Bekhechi, January 2002
C. Other
Air Quality Monitoring Assessment, prepared by Jacques Whitford, June 2002
Draft Needs Assessment for Water Quality Monitoring Equipment and Technical Assistance, Karoon
River Basin, prepared by Ramez Kayal and Jaafar Friaa, December 2002
Evaluation and Future Development of the EIA System in the Islamic Republic of Iran, prepared by
METAP, March 2002
*Including electronic files
- 57 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
06-Feb-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                               IBRD       IDA                     Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig  Frm ReVd
P069943     2000 IR-2nd Prirary Health Care & Nutrition    87.00    0.00                       0.00    84.07    26.74     0.00
P069948     2000 IR-Tehran Sewerage                       145.00    0.00                       0.00    114.47   18.90     0.00
Total:    232.00     0.00                       0.00    198.54   45.84     0.00
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Comnitted                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company                            Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partii
Total Portfolio:            0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.0o     0.00      0.00     0.(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Committment:             0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
- 58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Iran    Africa   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                       65.1      301      2,164                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,670     2,000     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     108.6      601      2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                         1.6       2.0       1.0
Labor force (I%)                                       4.4       2.9       1.2     GNI                             Gross
per                            primay
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995.01)                              capita                       nrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  21
Urban population (I% of total population)              65        58        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71        68        69                       .
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               26        43        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             11         15       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (9% of population)  95        89        80
Illiteracy(% of population age 15+)                    15        34        15
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschoo-agepopulation)       117        97       107              Iran, Islamic Rep.
Male                                                120       103       107              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              113        90       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                          100.1     91.5     101.6     114.1
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 22.8     33.2      27.4      29.3                    Trade
Exports ofgoods and servicestGOP             11.8     15.3      24.9      28.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   18.8    25.1       38.7      35.8
Gross national savings/GDP                   17.8    26.5       38.8      35.1
Current account balance/GDP                  -3.4    -11.2      13.3       4.2     Domestic                     ne    n
Interest payments/GDP                        0.2       0.0       0.3       0.2     savings
Total debtGDP                                 3.9     12.4       7.8       6.3
Total debt service/expor.                     5.6      3.9      23.9       8.2
Present value of debVGDP                       ..       ..       7.3
Present value of debttexports                                   25.6
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.9       3.3      5.9       4.8       4.9            Iran, Islamic Rep.
GDP per capita                      -1.3      1.7      3.9       3.1       3.2         -  - Lower-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices           6.4      -1.0     18.2       9.7      12.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(I% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  21.5    23.1       17.7      18.6
Industry                                    31.4     28.3       33.3      30.1    1oo
Manufacturing                              10.0     14.0      15.3      12.5      so-\
Services                                    34.5      48.7      49.0      51.3      o0    New le,
Private consumption                         60.2     64.2       46.9      51.0    .50 l         97   98   99    00    0
General govemment consumption               20.9     10.7       14.4      13.2 2GOt                          GDP
Imports of goods and services               15.7     23.5       13.3     21.5
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agricuture                                   4.4      3.9        2.8       4.7    40
Industry                                     3.4     -3.5        8.9      7.5     20
Manufacturing                               5.6      4.8       8.0      10.0
20
Servioes                                     -0.8     8.5        5.6       4.8    20
Private consumption                          2.3      3.0        4.9      5.1     20
General govemment consumption               -4.6      4.2        1.1       1.6   -4.
Gross domestic investment                   -0.3      3.2        3.8       3.0               Exports     -0--irnports
Imports of goods and services                -2.2   -11.3        1.5      4.5
Note: 2001 data are prelirrinary estirates.
The diarrionds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are rrssing, the diamond will be incomplete.
- 59 -



Iran, Islamic Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices                                                                 e0
(% change)
Consumerprices                             21.4     15.8      12.6     11.7    40
Implicit GDP deflator                      24.5     23.6      32.2      8.6
Goveemment finance                                                              20_
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                              ..      6.8      32.4     28.0            99    97    98    99    00   01
Current budget balance                        ..    -5.4      16.5     10.5            -    GDP deflator   cCPI
Overall surplustdeficit                    -10.5   -12.2       8.5      1.0
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                       11,831  18,661    29,900   26.000     40,000
Fuel                                    11,491   16,012    24,280   19,339
Textiles                                     ..      ..        ..       ..
Manufactures                                ..       .                                                      * ..
Total imports (cff)                       13,138  25,190    17,900   21.600     20,00
Food                                         .       .i,o
Fuel and energy                          1 ,000    400       274      625
Capital goods                                ..      ..        ..       ..        o
Export price index (1995=100)               133      71         69       70           95   so   97   Oa  so   OD   01
Import price index (1995=100)                51       93        58       58                0 Exports    *lrnVorts
Termsof trade (1995=100)                    260       76       120      120
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services            12,387   19,329    28,461   23,716     Is
Imports of goods and services             16,453  30,905    15.086   18,138
Resource balance                          -4,066  -11,576   13,375    5,578     10.
Net income                                  620      128      -166    -1,144
Net current transfers                         0    1.200       315      320      5  *     l            II-
Current account balance                   -3,446  -10,248   13,524    4,754
Financing items (net)                      -324    8,149    -20,404   -9,695        9S   93   97        98   00    01
Changes in net reserves                   3,770    2,099     6,880    4,941    .- -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         .   3.036    12,527    17.468
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUUSS)            80.0    547.6    5,731.0  5,819.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   ComposIton of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      3,857   11.330     7,953     7,214
IBRD                                      529       46       481      380                        A: 380
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                              D: 284
Total debt service                          740      803     6.914     2,168 6                               E: 717
IBRD                                       94       46       110      101
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                 G: 3,678
Otdicial grants                             7       85
Official creditors                        -75      -90
Private creditors                        4350      344                                                      F: 2,155
Foreign direct investment                   ..       .       400      500
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0       232        0      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               0        0       114       31      B- IDA   D - Other rrultilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       52       40        70       65      C - IMP                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                 -52      -40        44      -34
Interest payments                          42        5        40       36
Net transfers                             -94      -46         5      -70
uevetopment Economics
- 60 -



Iran, Islamic Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991     2000     2001     Inflaton (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                     e;
Consumerprices                             21.4     15.8     12.6     11.7    40
Implicit GDP deflator                      24.5    23.6      32.2      8.6                   I
Govemment finance                                                             20 _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            o
Current revenue                              ..     6.8      32.4     28.0            9G    97    98    99   0o0   0
Current budget balance                       ..     -5.4     16.5     10.5            -    GDP deflator  -* CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -10.5    -12.2      8.5       1.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1981    1991      2000     2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      11,831   18,661   29,900    26,000    40,000
Fuel                                    11,491  16,012    24,280   19,339
Textiles                                    ..      ..         ..      ..     0,000
Manufactures                                ..
Total imports (cif)                      13,138   25,190    17,900   21,600    20,000
Food                                       ..       ..                                                L   .,Lo_
Fuel and energy                          1,000    400       274      625
Capital goods                              ..        ..       ..        .
Export price index (1995=100)               133      71        69       70           ss    G   a7  Oa   ag   oo   o
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                  51       93        58       58                *Expons       lmrrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   260      76       120      120
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1981     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            12,387   19,329   28,461    23,716    '-
Imports of goods and services            16,453  30,905    15,086    18,138
Resource balance                         -4,066  -11,576   13,375    5,578     10
Net income                                 620      128      -166    -1144                                 I
Net current transfers                        0     1,200      315      320      :       .    -         m
Current account balance                  -3,446  -10,248   13,524    4,754      o
Financing items (net)                     -324    8,149    -20,404   -9,695           99               99   o    01
Changes in net reserves                   3,770   2,099     6,880    4,941     .5 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..   3,036    12,527    17,468
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWIS$)            80.0   547.6    5,731.0  5,819.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991     2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      3,857   11,330     7,953    7,214
IBRD                                     529       46       481      380                        k 350
IDA                                        0        0         0        0                              D: 284
Total debt service                          740     803      6,914    2,168                                E: 717
IBRD                                      94       46       110      101
IDA                                        O        O         0        0.                               _
Composition of net resource flows                                                G: 3678   -
Official grants                             7      85         ..       ..             :
Official creditors                        -75     -90         .
Private creditors                       -350      34..                 ..                       .       / F1
Foreign direct investment                  ..      ..       400      500
Portfolio equity                           0        0         0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                0        0       232        0      A- IBRD                   E- EBilateral
Disbursements                              0        0       114       31      B - IDA  D- Other multilateral  F -Private
Principal repayments                      52       40        70       65      C - IMF                   G - Short-terr
Net flows                                 -52     -40        44      -34
Interest payments                         42        5        40       36
Net transfers                            -94      -46         5       -70
ueveiopment tConomics                                                                                          111
-61-



- 62 -



MAP SECTION






Photos
!1  -             '      ~~-7 -4 -,v ..;U : t                f
F   - +;~~~~~~~
!       ;                              -              - ----t   ->= 
-  E  .   -                -  Q         1~~~~~~~~~~- 
AN                                          ,  ,. ). ; , I *, _~~N 
Untreated Sewage Discharges into the Karoon River
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Air Pollution an Isfahan~~~/_






>IRMENIA ZEt-' ! .;; - ;;                      I°        UZBEKISTAN
~~s n TURK                               T U R K M E N I S T A N / 
-Khvo                           T. TREPUBLIC
RBAYJAN'><rj7-1                     KHfRAS0N      AFGHANISTAN        OF IRAN
RK9r  d bAZD                                                                RE.0, *I k\ROAN
t  -,,.\  .  W  J)w CHAHA  ff )   5;\Yazd   4_  \   \  '  8  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o SELECTED ClES
9  \ jAhva2  !  { <  X  1-  efqf  v  ¢C  -   k  _ <   Jy   @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROvlNCE (OSTAN) CAPTIALS
a s u ;  \.   >Kerman         /   \   >    /t°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___ MAIN ROADS
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6e6 -                      *R  - *  -. - Bm  -INTERNAliONAL BOUNDARIES
--..0-Xijmiy h                                        Tok, t   - ~ \ f  TAshgAc  -t
GHARBI  BAHRAjN Zoni  °'.bbaf  _                            Do  200Kilometrs
SaraI             I I
t  ndaA N ' ' ' "                                         b',  eN  ' 3  I -  T B
D3T  ,(                  Ut1e Semondono3 1on th o- of Th WorL o
H 0                   0   M Ndre,o                          tocpon  fsd  oooe.N









Report No.:        25496  IRN
Type:     PA



