Report No. PID11476
Project Name             IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF-ENVIRONMENTAL (@)
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROGRAM
Region                   Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                   Central government administration (75%);
General public administration sector (25%)
Project ID               P074499
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF IRAN
Implementing Agency
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT (DOE)
Address: Pardisan Nature Park, Shahid
Hemat Highway, Tehran - Iran
Contact Person: Dr. Yousef Hojjat,
Deputy Head of the Department for
Human Environment
Tel: 9821 8267991
Fax: 9821 8267990
Email: Y Hojjat@Yahoo.com
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        January 14, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      December 11, 2002
Bank Approval Date       April 17, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Increasing population density in urban areas and expanding industrial
production, especially in the oil and gas sectors, are putting pressure on
the country's environment. Specifically, air and water pollution
constitute the most serious environmental problems, threatening public
health and the country's long-term economic prospects. These
environmental issues are summarized below, based on the Environmental
Strategy Report prepared by the Government, UNDP and the World Bank in
1995, an NGO survey in 2000 and the National Report on Sustainable
Development presented at the Johannesburg Conference on Sustainable
Development in 2002.
Main Environmental Challenges: Air pollution in major cities such as
Tehran, Mashhad, Isfahan, Tabriz, and Ahwaz is a serious environmental
problem and exceeds World Health Organization's (WHO) guidelines by 40 to
340% over maximum allowable limits.   In Tehran alone, the aging transport
sector, heavy industries (e.g. oil, cement and chemical plants) and small
and medium enterprises add about 1.5 million tons of pollutants to the air
annually. Motor vehicles are a significant contributor to air pollution.
Frequently, schools have been closed and residents have asked to remain
indoors due to public health risks as result of air pollution. For
example, as recently as November 21 of this year, residents of Tehran were
asked to stay indoors as air pollution, particularly carbon monoxide
concentrations, had reached emergency levels. In addition to the transport
sector, industries in the country emit more than 450,000 tons of sulfur
dioxide and 100,000 tons of total suspended particulates (TSP) per year.



Respiratory ailments and allergies related to air pollution affect about
20t  of the population, especially children.   In Tehran, recent studies
have shown that high level of PM-10 could become responsible for an
average of 52 cases of cancer and 62 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants every
year.
Air Pollution in Isfahan
Untreated Sewage discharges into the Karoon River
In addition, the quality of rivers and groundwater is deteriorating. Water
quality of the Karoon river, which represents 30 percent of the entire
surface water resources of the country, has been deteriorating at an
alarming rate due to the discharge of untreated municipal wastewater (152
million m3/yr), agricultural drainage (2 billion m3/yr), and untreated
industrial effluents (200 million m3/yr). The poor water quality has
important implications on human health, particularly for young children.
According to the Ministry of Health in Khuzestan province, diarrhea
illnesses account for more than 90 percent of children's diseases and 15
percent of under five mortality. In addition to the impact on human
health, substantial incremental costs are required to transport water from
distant sources for mixing with the river water and for additional
treatment.
Government Strategy: Environmental protection is embedded in the
country's constitution. Article 50 explicitly states that protection of
the environment is a public duty and economic activities which are
polluting or cause other environmental damage are prohibited. The current
overall development priorities and approach are outlined in the Third
Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP) (2001-2005) approved by the Parliament
in 2000. The Plan aims at a 6 percent annual growth rate during the
period which will enable the government to address social development and
equity issues by raising living standards and reducing unemployment. It
also envisages a wide range of structural reforms aiming at a balanced and
gradual transition to a market economy. More particularly, the plan
places priority on reducing pollution and preserving the country's
natural and cultural resources (reference: articles 17, 61, 104 and
121). Specifically, it obligates the Government to reduce air pollution
in the cities of Tehran, Mashhad, Tabriz, Ahwaz, Arak, Shiraz and Isfahan
to WHO standards. Accordingly, these cities are currently finalizing their
air pollution reduction strategies. Detailed air pollution reduction
strategies for Tehran and Isfahan have already been completed. Under
Tehran's strategy, the aim is to reduce 1,900 tons of air pollutants every
year for the next 10 years. This strategy requires intensive collaboration
between various responsible ministries. It assigns DOE the main
responsibility of monitoring the program and it recognizes the necessity
to undertake training and outreach programs to combat air pollution.
Government Institutions and Environmental Management: The Department of
Environment (DOE) is responsible for ensuring that environmental policies
and laws are implemented and for monitoring the state of the environment.
The Government considers environmental issues a national priority which is
reflected in the institutional structure for environmental management. The
Environmental High Council is responsible for policy-making and
intersectoral coordination and is composed of the Minister of Agriculture
- 2 -



and Jihad, the Minister of Industry, the Minister of the Interior, the
Minister of Housing and Urban Development, the Minister of Health and
Medical Education, the Director of the Planning and Budget Organization,
the Director of the Department of the Environment and four experts
recommended by the President of IRI. The High Council reports directly to
the president. DOE is the regulatory agency in charge of formulating
environmental policies, by-laws, regulations and standards for
consideration by the Environmental High Council and other government
bodies. It is expected to work with a range of line ministries at
national and provincial levels and to assist them in developing policies,
standards and plans. The DOE is responsible for research, environmental
planning, monitoring, and enforcement. The DOE also manages projects on
protected areas and species, and serves as the national or regional focal
point for many international and regional agreements. In addition, the DOE
is tasked with leading environment related public awareness and training
efforts. Responsibility for the management of natural resources and the
implementation of environmental policies rests with the line ministries
represented in the High Council, such as the Ministry of Agriculture,
which is responsible for rangeland and 90 percent of the forests; and the
Ministry of Energy for water resources management and supply.
However, weak monitoring and limited enforcement capacity is seriously
undermining the DOE's ability to protect public health and natural
resources. Additionally, regulatory command and control has inhibited the
development of incentive-based systems such as tax breaks and other
economic incentives. The country's National Report on Sustainable
Development outlines several areas of weakness in current environmental
management: (i) weak and poorly enforced environmental laws; (ii) lack of
public interest in environmental issues; (iii) limited integration of
environmental issues into national development policies; (iv) absence of
reliable environmental data; and (v) insufficient training on
environmental issues and outdated curriculum. Although DOE has done very
good work (such as Tehran Air pollution reduction strategy), it has not
managed to communicate its successes to the other stakeholders and the
public. It consequently suffers from weak credibility. Hence, the
Government is keen to strengthen the DOE's capacity in monitoring and
enforcing compliance, especially as these pertain to air and water issues;
it also seeks to improve its ability to coordinate among government and
non government actors on environmental matters. Accordingly, the
Government has requested the Bank to assist in this endeavor through a
combination of non-lending technical assistance and investments.The
proposed project is the first intervention responding to this request.
2. Objectives
The proposed project would be a first phase of a long-term effort by the
Government of Iran (GOI) to improve environmental management in the
country. The main project objective would be to enhance the capacity of
the Department of Environment (DOE) to monitor air and water quality. This
would be realized through pilot targeted interventions in four provinces:
Tehran, Isfahan, Khorasan and Khuzestan. Subsequently, this intervention
would be scaled up to include more provinces through a programmatic
approach, based on lessons learned.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The country has had limited access to global practices, especially in the
-3 -



environmental sector and hence the government views the Bank's
re-engagement as an important mechanism for knowledge transfer.
Government officials have made it clear that while they appreciate the
Bank's financial lending instruments, they are more interested in tapping
the Bank's global knowledge. There has been very little donor involvement
in Iran over the last several years and it is unlikely the Government can
attract donor involvement in the environmental sector and hence the
Government is keen to use the Bank to mobilize donor interest in
cofinancing. From the Bank's side, the combination of technical assistance
and investments would provide the opportunity to develop its status as a
knowledge institution and in line with the new MNA strategy. Furthermore,
the Bank will maintain an effective link with the Government through its
active re-engagement.
4. Description
Component 1 - Strengthening institutional capacity to monitor air and
water quality. Capacity building for DOE offices in Tehran, Isfahan,
Khorasan and Khuzestan in water and air quality management will be
supported by:
(i) Mainstreaming environment into sector policies and programs. This
subcomponent will be mainly non-lending technical assistance and will
include analytical studies such as the costs of environmental degradation,
the ongoing environmental energy review, industrial air and waste water
pollution and a country environmental analysis.
(ii) Improving the legal and institutional framework governing air and
water quality management. This will include diagnostic assessments and
updating of the institutional and legal frameworks consistent with
standard international practices. This component will also fund studies on
development of economic incentives.
(iii) Strengthening the capacity of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
unit: The recommendations of the METAP report on strengthening the EIA
system will be implemented. Specifically, EIA information within the
central and provincial offices will be consolidated. EIA units in the
provincial DOE offices of Mashhad and Isfahan would be established.
(iv) Establishing an environmental management information system. The
three pilot provincial directorates and the Tehran Headquarters will be
connected through a shared and consolidated information network.
Furthermore, the subcomponent will build DOE capacity to analyze data
collected and thus provide the tools for sound decision-making.
(v) Supplying air and water quality monitoring equipment. This
subcomponent will finance a maximum of 48 air quality monitoring stations
for Tehran, Mashhad, Isfahan and Arak and about 24 water quality
monitoring stations on the Karoon river.
Air Pollution Monitoring Equipment
Component 2. Building partnership through pilot environmental projects.
This component will strengthen DOE's partnerships with line ministries,
municipalities, universities and civil society organizations by financing
joint pilot environmental subprojects in the provinces of Tehran, Isfahan,
Khorasan, and Khuzestan on a demand driven basis. The subprojects will
focus on activities that relate to air and water quality
management.(Examples of potential subprojects are described in Annex 2).
- 4 -



Component 3 - Training and Public Awareness Programs to improve air and
water quality.
Strengthening environmental training in air and water quality: The
proposed project would support the Institute for Applied Environmental
Science and Research (IAESR) within DOE in developing curricula for air
and water management programs. Courses/training programs will be offered
by the IAESR in Tehran and through a partnership with existing
universities/research institutions in the pilot provinces. The programs
will be designed to (i) improve the performance of public sector personnel
and NGOs involved in management of water and air activities (through short
and focused workshops and seminars) and (ii) provide technical and applied
two year degree programs for students with a high school diploma. It will
also finance the purchasing of equipment for the institute, upgrading an
air and water laboratory, and the construction of a girls' dormitory in
the vicinity of the training center.
Furthermore, the World Bank Institute (WBI) will be conducting training
programs to strengthen the capacity of DOE professionals interpret,
evaluate and present air and water quality monitoring data. WBI will help
support the delivery of activities in a number of thematic areas, namely:
air and water data analysis and quality control, air and water pollution
impact assessment and economic valuation, priority setting for
environmental management, policy instruments for environmental management,
and working with the media. Training activities will be using 'Best
Practices' from around the world to illustrate real-world experiences with
implementation of environmental policies and the application of tools.
Annual meetings, involving a number of local and national agencies and
training institutions, will be organized to define the specific training
needs, plan activities and evaluate the program.
Undertaking environmental public awareness programs: this subcomponent
will strengthen DOE's capacity to undertake public awareness campaigns on
air and water quality issues. The activities will focus on (i) informing
the public on air and water pollution; (ii) improving its understanding of
the potential consequences of air and water pollution on health and the
natural environment; and (iii) encourage mitigating behaviors. Activities
financed under this sub-component include the development of an outreach
strategy and the preparation of TV clips and mass publications. Surveys
evaluating the knowledge and behavioral changes of respondents will also
be undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of the outreach program.
Component 4 - Project Management: This component will finance incremental
operating costs of the Project Coordination Team (PCT) within the DOE,
including financing office equipment, technology, supplies and other
activities to implement and monitor the project. The project team will be
responsible for procurement and management of project funds, and hence
will be trained in project management, procurement and financial
management. Training will also be extended to selected DOE staff in the
four provinces. The component will also finance the preparation of a
follow-up environmental project.
1. Strengthening institutional capacities to monitor and enforce air and
water quality standards including supply of air and water quality
monitoring stations
2. Building partnership through pilot environmental projects
3. Training and Public Awareness programs
4. Project management
5. Contingencies
-5-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $2.10
IBRD $20.00
IDA
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) $0.90
Total Project Cost $23.00
6. Implementation
The project will be managed by a Project Coordination Team (PCT) under
the overall guidance of the Head of the Department for Human Environment
in DOE. The PCT will consist of a Project Coordinator and a team
consisting of a liaison officer, two air pollution specialists, two water
pollution specialists, a financial specialist, a procurement specialist
and an administrative assistant, all deputed from the DOE. Each of the
DOE departments benefiting from the capacity-building initiative will have
a counterpart team headed by the departmental head who will work in close
cooperation with the Project Coordination Team. More specifically, the
project team will be responsible for the following tasks:
hiring local experts to assist in the development of Terms of Reference
for the various project studies;
supervising the consulting teams preparing various assessments, studies
and training.
coordinating work within the various DOE Departments and the provincial
offices of Isfahan, Khorasan and Khuzestan;
interacting with sector ministries for supervising joint activities;
coordinating with donors, civil society and community representatives to
promote and strengthen partnerships;
monitoring the Project Implementation Plan, preparing progress reports
including financial and management reports and
facilitating the advisory role of the Expert Committees (both nationally
and at the provincial level).
In order to further the decentralization agenda, the Provincial DOE
offices at Isfahan, Khuzestan and Khorasan will be responsible for
implementing the capacity-building components. Hence, project teams will
be established in each of the provincial offices which will mirror the
structures to be established in the central DOE.
Expert Committees: These committees would be created as an advisory body
to the PCT on project implementation. The project will have a National
Expert Committee, chaired by the Head of Department for Human Environment
in DOE and composed of provincial heads of DOE and representatives from
relevant sector ministries including representatives from the Ministry of
Economy and Management and Planning Organization (MPO), Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Energy, and the private sector, civil society and
local government. Provincial level Steering Committees will also be
organized to mirror the National Expert Committee.
Procurement: All procurement will be carried out by PCT. A procurement
advisor will be hired to establish the Project's procurement operations,
and provide support to PCT in implementation of Project's procurement
activities including preparation of the bidding documents/Request for
Proposals, evaluation reports, draft contracts, and annual procurement
plans. Other individual consultants will be recruited as necessary to
- 6 -



assist PCT in the preparation of technical specifications and support in
technical evaluation of bids.
A detailed procurement plan has been prepared and agreed with the client
(on file). Under each of the components procurement packages have been
designed. Under component I - Strengthening Institutional Capacities in
Air and Water Quality Monitoring - 4 main contracts will be awarded and
include the following: (a) consultancy services for institutional
strengthening and policy development -USD 0.9 million (b) procurement of
Air Quality Monitoring Stations - USD 6.55 million (c) Procurement of
Water Quality Monitoring stations - USD 1.46 million and (d) Communication
and Knowledge Management strategy (USD0.2 million) and supply of equipment
needed to improve data collection and analysis (USD 0.6 million this
amount includes consolidation of all information technology needs under
one package). Component II - Pilot Environmental Projects - will be demand
driven and as such procurement packages will be prepared after subproject
identification and approval. Component III - Environmental Training and
Public Awareness - will consist of the following main packages (a)
production and printing of environmental publications - USD 0.5 million
(b) rehabilitation of IAESR dormitories (USD 0.15 million) and supply of
furniture and laboratory equipment for the training facility (USD 0.3
million). Finally component 4 - Project Management - will include the
following procurement activities (a) consultancies on advisory, monitoring
and evaluation services - USD 0.3 million     (b) purchase of vehicles,
office equipment and incremental operating costs of the Project - USD 0.8
million.
Financial Management (See Annex 6.B)
The project is approved by the Economic Council and is included in the
Development Budget (the National Budget consists of the Current Budget and
the Development Budget) for the fiscal year 1382 (March 21, 2003 to March
20, 2004). The project is implemented in line with the laws and
regulations that govern execution and control of the public expenditure
and are strictly enforced by the MOEAF and the Supreme Audit Court of
Iran. Financial management operations and functions are carried out solely
at the center in Teheran. PCT has the overall responsibility for all the
financial management matters of the project. The PCT is established and an
FMS has already been appointed. The financial management function is
divided between the FC (Financial Controller) of the MOEAF (Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Finance) who is assigned to and located at the DOE
and the PCT that is responsible for project coordination and management
activities. The FC is responsible for the overall financial management of
the DOE and is a signatory on all the bank accounts that the FC
him(her)self is responsible for opening in the name of the DOE, including
the project local and foreign currency accounts. The functions of the FC
encompass commitment for expenditure, approval of the payment and the
actual payment, and financial reporting in line with the requirements for
all public expenditure, including the current project. The PCT/FMS also
carries out accounting and financial reporting functions in order to
provide the information required by the Bank in a regular, complete and
timely manner. The financial management activities of the PCT is
coordinated and integrated with the already existing structures at the
DOE. The PCT/FMS is responsible for the preparation of the annual budgets,
and the project general accounting and the supplementary reporting
functions to the Bank. These responsibilities require the PCT/FMS to
- 7-



perform functions that include budget preparation, initiation of
expenditure, effecting the expenditure, receipt of goods and services,
completion of expenditure forms and vouchers for the transactions, record
keeping, verification of supporting documents, preparing bank
reconciliation statements, monitoring of the SAs, and preparing periodic
reports and financial statements for submission to the Bank and the DOE.
The Project Coordinator is one of the two signatories on the SAs, the FC
is the other. The FC and the FMS coordinate between themselves all the
flows of information and documentation for financial management and
reporting purposes. A regular (at least on a monthly basis) reconciliation
between the accounting records of the FC relating to the execution of the
Development Budget at the DOE and the project records kept by the FMS is
carried out by the FMS. The financial management procedures and reporting
requirements, and the format for the aforementioned reconciliation
statements are described in detail in the PIM.
The PCT will be also responsible for the preparation of quarterly FMR and
the annual PFS. The fiscal year in Iran follows the Hejri Solar calendar.
It starts on March 22 of each Gregorian calendar year, and ends on March
21, of the following year. Similarly, the end of the other quarters falls
on the 21of the related month in the Gregorian calendar, e.g. June 21,
September 21, and December 21. The content of the FMR has already been
discussed and will be agreed upon at the negotiations. The FMR and the
reconciliation statements referred to above for each of the months falling
on the end of each quarter will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days
from the end of each calendar quarter. Sample formats for the FMR and the
PFS are provided in the PIM. An independent audit firm acceptable to the
Bank will be appointed to audit the annual PFS. The audit should be
carried out in line with the International Standards on Auditing as
published by the International Federation of Accounts and the specific TOR
acceptable to the Bank. The audited PFS should be submitted to the Bank as
soon as possible and in any event not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year. The TOR for the audit assignment provides for a
full-scope audit of the financial transactions and an assessment of the
financial management system, including a detailed review of internal
control mechanisms. The DOE and all other government organizations that
are participating in implementation of the project should provide the
auditor with access to project-related documents and records and any other
information required for the purposes of the project audit. The auditors
will also provide a memorandum on the weaknesses in the internal controls
including suggestions for improvements in those controls and submit the
memorandum to the PCT and the DOE for follow-up and implementation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Since the project is envisioned to develop into a long-term program on
environmental management, learning will be an important aspect of project
implementation. Accordingly, monitoring and evaluation through Bank
supervision missions, beneficiary impact assessments, financial and
procurement audits, and project status reports will be an integral part of
project implementation. Both the National Advisory Committees and the
Steering committees (at the provincial level) would monitor progress and
provide advice on project implementation. The PCT would also employ
independent consultants to conduct technical reviews on the establishment
and operation of the air and water quality monitoring stations. Due to the
phased nature of project implementation, emerging lessons from such
- 8-



reviews would feed into project improvements.Furthermore, the PCT would
also employ consultants or NGOs to conduct beneficiary impact assessments
at least once a year to monitor key output indicators and transform
emerging lessons into the project design.
7. Sustainability
Lack of sustainability in other similar projects was due to adopting an
ad-hoc approach, not linking capacity-building with other investments,
expecting short-term development outcomes, and lack of government
financing to continue the process after project completion. Accordingly,
the proposed project design would include the following features to
enhance sustainability:
The project will be a five-year operation providing adequate time to
develop a knowledge base and understanding of the existing capacity of the
environmental institutions as well as relationships with other relevant
institutions, civil society and beneficiaries. Time will also be
available to bridge the gap between policy reform and implementation,
develop local capacity and establish partnerships among stakeholders.
The project would target a few realistic outcomes such as improving air
quality monitoring in four cities (Tehran, Isfahan, Mashhad and Arak) and
improve water quality monitoring in the Karoon River Basin.
Environmental pollution is a serious and highly visible public concern and
since DOE is mandated to address this problem, there is a strong
motivating factor to ensure project success and thereby enhance its
creditability with decision makers and the public.
The project will assist the DOE to locate strategic long-term partners
such as universities, research organizations and NGOs, to deliver
capacity-building in the provinces of Isfahan, Khorasan and Khuzestan.
Preparation of a follow-up operation is part of the current project
design. This feature encourages the Government to commit to a long-term
strategy from the beginning.
The inclusion of participatory environment subprojects increases ownership
and awareness and thereby builds grass-roots support for continuation of
the activities.
Iran is a middle income country in a relatively healthy financial
position. As per the Third 5-year plan, the Government is committed to
funding activities in the social and environmental sectors. Hence,
according to the DOE, continued government funding for environmental
management will not be a problem, especially if the EMSP leaves a trail of
success stories.
Furthermore, the recent clearance given to the project by the Economic
Council clears the way for DOE to secure both the loan and the yearly
counterpart funding to implement the project. This demonstrates
Government's ownership and commitment to a long term strategy.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Prioritization: It is important for Environmental Institutional
Development projects to initially clarify the roles and responsibilities
of institutions when these are unclear and ambiguous. Since ambiguous
institutional arrangements are symptomatic of weak strategies and
policies, the temptation to "strengthen everything" should be avoided.
Priorities should be identified in a participatory manner and actions
phased accordingly. Hence, under the current project based on a rapid
institutional assessment during preparation, two main areas of
intervention were selected: capacity-building in monitoring and
-9-



enforcement and participatory environmental investments in air and water
quality management, limited to the following geographical areas: the
cities of Tehran, Isfahan, Arak and Mashhad for air pollution monitoring
and the Karoon River Basin for water quality monitoring.
Fiduciary aspects: Due to past implementation problems in the Bank's Iran
portfolio, a financial and procurement risk assessment were undertaken
during project preparation in order to incorporate risk minimization
measures early on in the design stage of the project. The design includes
hiring of dedicated staff and training in procurement and financial
management.
Complex Design: Best practice examples indicate that project design
should be a function of local agencies to absorb and implement the
project. Many projects with complex designs (e.g., Brazil, Morocco,
Russia) have been simplified and restructured. The key is to assess the
institutional capacity ex-ante to implement the project components and
maintain a certain degree of flexibility in the design. Hence, the EMSP
would be targeted and simple in design, keeping the assimilative capacity
of DOE as a reference point. Furthermore, the DOE is extremely eager to
decentralize to local units and collaborate with relevant line ministries,
municipalities, the private sector and civil society in the implementation
of the project, which is an important design feature of the EMSP.
Building Ownership: The overall goal is to focus on the environmental
management system as a whole and not exclusively the DOE.
Capacity-building for DOE is part of a long-term strategy to create a
better environmental management system. Strengthening partnerships with
other agencies, including other sector ministries, universities, and NGOs,
is critical. To increase ownership and participation of other stakeholders
during preparation, DOE conducted workshops to identify priorities with
participants from sector ministries, NGOs and academics from the major
universities in Tehran. These exercises would be a constant feature during
the implementation phases. Furthermore, the proposed project concept was
also discussed and approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Department
of Planning and Budget.
Clear Training Objectives. Experience from other technical assistance
projects such as in Chile and Brazil has shown that a lack of clear
training objectives can lead to training programs that have no linkages to
the project (see Lessons Learned in Designing and Implementing
Environmental Technical Assistance Projects, in the Project File).
Therefore, the training and outreach component of the project was designed
to complement the project's main objectives. The training program is
designed to enhance the performance of public sector personnel and NGOs in
various aspects related to air and water quality, ranging from equipment
operation, to data collection and analysis, to legal and institutional
aspects. The environmental outreach program was also designed to raise
awareness among civil society to inform them about air and water pollution
issues, improve their understanding of the potential consequences on human
health, and encourage mitigating behaviors.
Complementary Capacity-Building Interventions with Investments: While
environmental capacity-building projects are necessary to strengthen the
overall policy and institutional framework, investment projects could
- 10 -



transform these policies into actions on the ground. However, there is
also a danger that the implementing agency will concentrate only on the
investment component at the expense of capacity-building. Nevertheless,
lessons from past projects have shown that capacity-building objectives
are best achieved by a combination of the two. The design of the proposed
project is intended to anchor the capacity building activities through
investments, to show results on the ground, build partnerships and enhance
creditability of the DOE.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This is primarily a technical assistance project to
build DOE's institutional capacity and as such would generate mainly
positive environmental impacts. The projects would fund capacity building
activities such as studies, seminars, training workshops and public
awareness campaigns targeted at water and air pollution issues and are
expected to generate positive environmental impacts. Minor civil works,
such as the rehabilitation of girls' dormitories are expected to cost less
than US$150,000, would have limited negative environmental impacts. This
aspect related to the minor civil works would be addressed through
screening process and mitigation measures would be part of the contractors
bidding documents. Accordingly, in compliance with OP 4.01, this project
is categorized as a "C" project.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Kanthan Shankar
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop
during the week ending January 24, 2002.
- 11 -



