Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4688-IRN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Environmental Management Support Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 13, 2003 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4688-IRN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 2003, between  the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
IRAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the additional terms wherever used in this Agreement have 
the following meanings:  
 
(a) 
“Central Bank of Iran” and the acronym “CBI” mean the 
Borrower’s central bank or any successor thereto;  
 
(b) 
“Department of Environment” and the acronym “DOE” mean the 
Borrower’s agency in charge of environmental mangement at the national level, 
established pursuant to the Cabinet Ruling dated March 2, 1972 , as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and any successor thereto;  
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
 “Fiscal Year”  and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year, 
commencing March 21 and ending March 20; and Fiscal Years and FYs mean 
more than one Fiscal Year;  
 
(e) 
“Institute of Applied Environmental Science and Research” and 
“IAESR” mean the Borrower’s institute established by Decree No. 22-5444 dated 
February 18, 2001, as the same may be amended from time to time, and any 
successor thereto; 
 
(f) 
“Non-Governmental Organization” and the acronym “NGO” mean 
a
non-governmental organization established in the Borrower’s territory under the 
laws of the Islamic Republic of Iran;  
 
(g) 
“National Expert Committee” and the acronym “NEC” mean the 
committee established on December 1, 2002 by DOE, and thereafter maintained 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
 
(h) 
“Project Coordination Team” and “PCT” mean the Project 
coordination team to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (d) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
 “Project Implementation Plan” and “PIP” mean the Borrower’s 
plan, to be adopted pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; as such manual may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank; 
 
(j) 
“Policy Planning Unit” and “PPU” mean the unit established by 
DOE on January 5, 2003 and thereafter maintained pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Project Province” means the provinces of Tehran, Markazi, 
Isfahan, Khorasan and Khuzestan in the territories of which part of the activities 
of the Project will be implemented, and “Project Province” means any one of such 
Project Provinces; 
 
(l) 
“Province” means a territorial and admininistrative unit of the 
Borrower established, organized and managed pursuant to the Borrower’s laws 
related to the organization of the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as the 
Page  5
-
3
-
same may be amended from time to time; and Provinces means more than one 
Province; 
 
(m) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement; and 
 
(n) 
“Steering Committee” and “SC” mean the steering committee 
established on December 1, 2002 by DOE and thereafter maintained within each 
of the Project Provinces pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 
5
to this Agreement; and “SCs” means more than one Steering Committee; 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million United States Dollars (US$20,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On, or promptly after the effective date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay Commission on the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Commission Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Commission Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
initial period, each period from and including a Commission 
Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Commission 
Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Commission Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Commission Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such Commission Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Commission Period, for value the Commission 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Commission Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Commission Period: 
(A) three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Commission Period, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each commission Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the commission rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the commission rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the commission rates applicable 
to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months notice to the Borrower of the new basis. 
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.07. 
Commission and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project through DOE with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and 
engineering practices, and social and environmental standards and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and with the Project 
Implementation Plan.  
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation  thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
Page  9
-
7
-
Page  10
-
8
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 
4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrow
er’s progress 
reporting obligations set out in paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring 
Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days
 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
10
-
Page  13
-
11
-
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance 
 
Tehran 
 
Islamic Republic of Iran 
 
Telephone 
  Facsimile 
 
98
21
390 10 33 
 
 
98 21 391 16 55 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
/s/ 
Thahmaseb Mazaheri Khorazani 
 
 
By  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/ 
Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib 
 
By  
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
 The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
U.S. Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
560,000 
85% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
9,770,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures, 100% 
of  
 
 
local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost); and 
85 % of local      
expenditures  
 
for other items 
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
6,550,000  
88% for local firms 
 
training and workshops   
 
 
and 
individuals 
and 
97%  
 
for foreign firms and  
 
individuals  
 
(4) 
Incremental operating costs   
1,240,000  
95% of expenditures  
 
incurred until March 21,  
 
2006, 75% until  
 
March 21, 2007 and 
 
50% thereafter  
 
(5) 
Front-end Fee 
200,000  
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of this  
 
Agreement 
 
6) 
Unallocated 
1,680,000   
Page  16
-
14
-
TOTAL 
20,000,000
========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures 
incurred by DOE in respect of expenditures made under Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project 
for operation and maintenance of the air and water monitoring stations, including filters 
and other consumables, and under Part D of the Project on account of communications, 
transportation, consumables, and operating costs of equipment and vehicles, but 
excluding staff salaries, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the 
Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for: (i) works under contracts estimated to cost less 
than US$100,000; (ii)goods under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent 
each; (iii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than 
US $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) contracts for the employment of individuals valued at 
less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (v) incremental operating costs; and (vi)  training 
and workshops; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to implement the  
first phase of a long-term program to improve its environmental management 
capacity and more specifically to enhance the capacity of DOE to monitor air and 
water quality.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective: 
 
Part A
:
Strengthening Instititional Capacity to Monitor Air and Water 
Quality 
1. 
Provision of goods, 
consultants’ services and training to strengthen 
the legal and institutional framework for environmental management and 
protection and natural resource conservation including: (i) mainstreaming 
environmental policies and programs, (ii) improving the legal and regulatory 
framework governing air and water quality management, (iii) enhancing the 
environmental impact assessment system at the national and provincial levels, and 
(iv) establishing an environmental information management system at DOE at the 
central level, and at least two DOE’s provincial offices. 
 
2. 
Carrying out through the execution of works and the provision of 
goods including ambient air monitoring and meteorological stations, training and 
consultants’ services, a program to monitor air quality in the cities of Tehran, 
Isfahan, Mashhad and Arak.   
 
3. 
Carrying out through the execution of works and the provision of 
goods, training and consultants’ services a program to monitor water quality in a 
pilot area along the Karoon River and carrying out of a training program for DOE 
staff in the provincial office of Khuzestan to operate and maintain  the equipments 
of the control stations. 
 
Part B
:
Building Partnership through Pilot Environmental Projects 
Provision of training and advisory services to municipalities, private 
sector, NGOs, universities and line ministries as the case may be to carry out 
partnership sub-projects to protect and enhance the quality of the environment.   
Page  18
-
16
-
Part C
:
Training and Public Awareness Programs
1. 
Strengthening environmental training programs in air and water 
quality  through the provision of consultants’ services, partnership with academic 
institutions, goods and construction of facilties for the IAESR.  
 
2. 
Enhancing the capacity of DOE to carry out environmental 
awareness activities, including public awareness campaigns on air and water 
quality, through the provision of consultants’ services and goods, including 
printing and disseminating environmental books, production, and broadcasting of 
environmental programs through  radio and television networks. 
 
Part D
:
Project Management and Coordination
Provision of consultants’ services, training and goods to PCT and 
provision of training to DOE staff in the provinces of Tehran, Isfahan, Khorasan 
and Markazi,  to strengthen their respective technical and management 
capabilities mainly in the areas of monitoring and evaluation of Project activities.   
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal  
 Payment 
Date
Expressed in U.S. Dollars
July 15, 2008 
835,000 
January 15, 2009 
835,000 
July 15, 2009 
835,000 
January 15, 2010 
835,000 
July 15, 2010 
835,000 
January 15, 2011 
835,000 
July 15, 2011 
835,000 
January 15, 2012 
835,000 
July 15, 2012 
835,000 
January 15, 2013 
835,000 
July 15, 2013 
835,000 
January 15, 2014 
835,000 
July 15, 2014 
835,000 
January 15, 2015 
835,000 
July 15, 2015  
835,000 
January 15, 2016 
835,000 
July 15, 2016 
835,000 
January 15, 2017 
835,000 
July 15, 2017 
835,000 
January 15, 2018 
835,000 
July 15, 2018 
835,000 
January15, 2019 
835,000 
July 15, 2019 
835,000 
January 15, 2020 
795,000 
 
TOTAL 
 
    
20,000,000
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more each.  
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Contracts for the procurement of goods and publications and books in 
Farsi, estimated to cost more than US$100,000 and less than US $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
(b) 
contracts referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of this Part and to be procured 
under the National Competitive Bidding procedure shall comply with the following:  
 
(i) 
Any prospective bidder from a country eligible under the  
Guidelines who propose to provide goods produced in or 
services supplied from any such country shall be eligible to bid 
for such contracts. 
 
(ii) 
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents acceptable  
to the Bank. 
 
(iii) 
Tenders will be advertised with no less that thirty days for  
bid preparation. 
 
(iv) 
Government owned enterprises shall be eligible provided they 
are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not selected or hired by the supervising 
or reporting authority, and will be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail. 
 
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public. The time for the bid opening 
shall be the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or 
promptly thereafter. 
 
(vii) 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed to submit two envelopes 
provided the two envelopes are opened at the same time. 
 
(viii) 
Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria 
disclosed in the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms, 
and no provision for preferential treatment for national 
companies shall be applied. 
 
(ix) 
The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated responsive bid, and no negotiation shall take 
place.  
 
2. 
National and International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national/international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
 
Page  22
-
20
-
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$700,000 may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods under Part A (2) and (3) of the Project which are of a proprietary nature: 
(a) may be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment, or (b) may be purchased from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee, and which cost less than US$10,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000 per year, may, with the prior agreement of 
the Bank, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
the procedure set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply: 
 
(i) 
with respect to all contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or 
more procured under Part C.1 of this Section; 
 
(ii) 
with respect to the three first contracts for goods under  Part C.2, 
and the three first contracts for works to be procured under 
Part C.3 of this Section the following procedure shall apply; and 
 
Page  23
-
21
-
(iii) 
with respect to each contract for works, estimated to cost more 
than US$100,000 procured under Part C.3 of this Section.  
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods procured under Part C.4 of this 
Section, the Borrower shall furnish the name of the supplier, the type and specifications 
and estimated cost of the goods and the justification for procuring such goods through 
direct contracting.  
 
(c) 
Prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank:  
 
(i) 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received  
and a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.  
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications:
Services to be provided by consulting firms under Parts C.2 and D of the Project 
that are estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate not to exceed US$400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for services and training under Part A.1, B, C.2 
and D of the Project and costing less than US$50,000 per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Guidelines.    
 
3. Least-Cost 
Selection
Services for financial audit estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Quality-based 
Selection
Services of individual consultants costing more than US$50,000 per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Single Source Selection
Services for short term technical assistance and very small assignments for  the 
Project, costing less than US$50,000 may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph. 
Page  25
-
23
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
Page  26
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain a National Expert Committee with mandate and 
membership satisfactory to the Bank to: (i) provide policy direction and overall 
management guidance in the implementation of the Project, and (ii) facilitate 
coordination among stakeholders involved in the implementation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
maintain within each of the provinces of Khorasan, Tehran, Isfahan, 
Markazi and Khuzestan, a Steering Committee with mandate and membership 
satisfactory to the Bank to advise DOE and other institutions on the implementation of 
the Project at the provincial level of each Province; 
 
(c) 
maintain the Policy Planning Unit within DOE to be responsible for 
studies to mainstream environmental management into policies and programs. 
 
(d) 
maintain a Project Coordination Team headed by a Project Coordinator 
and staffed with staff in adequate number and with relevant qualification and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank, including a liaison officer, four (4) environmental specialists, a 
financial specialist, a  procurement specialist and an administrative assistant. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, not later than February 28, 2003 adopt a Project 
Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) a 
description of the functions, responsibilities and composition of the NEC and PCT 
and each of the SCs and the modalities of their relationships; (ii) the criteria and 
process for the selection of  joint-programs  to be carried out under Part B.1 of the 
Project; (iii)  the criteria and process for the selection of NGOs, municipalities, 
universities and line ministries where appropriate, to assist in the implementation 
of  Part B of the Project; (iv) procurement rules and procedures; (v) financial 
management procedures including record keeping, monitoring, auditing and 
reporting; (vi) performance indicators for all Project components; and (vii) the 
procedures for the monitoring and reporting of Project activities. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall  not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any part of the Project 
Implementation Plan  unless it is agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.  
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that activities under Parts A.2, A.3 and B of the 
Project shall be reviewed by the competent SC at provincial level and/or NEC at national 
level as the case may be, and shall be approved only if: (a) in the event an environment 
compliance certificate is required under the laws or regulations of the Islamic Republic of 
Page  27
-
25
-
Iran, the proposal proponent has obtained such certificate from the Borrower’s competent 
environmental authorities in respect of the implementation of such activities; and (b) such 
activities incorporate measures for the maintenance and periodic inspection of any works 
and physical structures to be built or rehabilitated in accordance with sound engineering 
practice satisfactory to the Bank to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the 
condition of the structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or the methods 
of operations thereof which may endanger their safety and reliability. 
 
5.
 
The Borrower shall cause DOE to: 
 
(a) 
 maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof in accordance with performance indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, 
and as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about November 30, 2005 a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by January 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  28
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
US$3,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall  
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  29
-
27
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories  shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  30
-
28
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  31
-
29
-
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legmn\IRAN\ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT\LA Jan. 22, 2003 (Negotiated [changes applied after 
negotiations]).doc 
February 28, 2003 4:50 PM
 
