                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001047



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-46880)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                                       FOR AN

            ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT



                                 October 14, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                                                                   ii

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2009)

                    Currency Unit = Iranian Rials (Rls)

                              US$ 1.00 = Rials

                               FISCAL YEAR

                            March 20 ­ March 21

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CoED    Cost of Environmental Degradation
DO      Development Objective
DOE     Department of Environment
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIMS    Environmental Information Management System
EMSP    Environmental Management Support Project
FC      Financial Controller
FM      Financial Management
FMS     Financial Management Specialist
FY      Fiscal Year
FYDP    Five-Year Development Plan
GOI     Government of Iran
LAESR   Institute for Applied Environmental Science and Research
LC      Letter of Credit
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IP      Implementation Progress
MIS     Management Information System
MNA     Middle East and North Africa
MPO     Management and Planning Organization
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NEC     National Expert Committee
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PCT     Project Coordination Team
PDO     Project Development Objectives
Rls     Iranian Rials
SA      Special Account
SC      Steering Committee
TA      Technical Assistance
TOR     Terms of Reference
WHO     World Health Organization
                                        iii


      Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
    Country Director: Hedi Larbi
     Sector Manager: Luis Constantino
Project Team Leader: Alaa Sarhan
   ICR Team Leader: Alaa Sarhan
                                                                                                                            iv


                       ISLAMIC REPUBILC OF IRAN
              ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 11
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 16
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 22
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 25
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 29
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 31
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 48
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
  MAP
                                                                                               v



A. Basic Information
                                                                         ENVIRONMENTAL
                        Iran, Islamic Republic
Country:                                       Project Name:             MANAGEMENT
                        of
                                                                         SUPPORT PROJECT
Project ID:             P074499                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-46880
ICR Date:               10/14/2009              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                THE ISLAMIC
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Original Total
                        USD 20.0M               Disbursed Amount:        USD 7.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Department of Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: GOI

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/11/2002     Effectiveness:                               06/18/2003
Appraisal:            12/12/2002     Restructuring(s):                            06/17/2007
Approval:             04/08/2003     Mid-term Review:          05/20/2006         11/26/2006
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2008         12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Significant
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                     Ratings            Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:                    Unsatisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                        Unsatisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                                        Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:
                                                                                                    vi


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      70                     70
Sub-national government administration                                 30                     30


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Environmental policies and institutions                               Primary            Primary
Participation and civic engagement                               Secondary              Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health                         Primary            Primary
Water resource management                                             Primary            Primary

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                           Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Luis F. Constantino                  M. Salah Darghouth
Project Team Leader:       Alaa Ahmed Sarhan                    Kanthan Shankar
ICR Team Leader:           Alaa Ahmed Sarhan
ICR Authors:               Adel Bichara
                           Alaa Ahmed Sarhan
                           Anthony J.Blackwood


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Strengthen the capacity of the Department of Environment in Tehran, Isfahan, Markazi
and Khorasan to monitor air quality, and in Khuzestan to monitor water quality.
                                                                                                vii




Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No formal change (see main text).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values          Target Years
                Routine and accurate collection of air quality monitoring data in the project area
Indicator 1 :   (number of air quality monitoring stations installed in project area and used
                appropriately to collect and analyze accurate data).

                Ad hoc and limited                                            - 20 operational (44
Value
                information available on                                      purchased and 43
quantitative or                                    49               NA
                air quality in the project                                    installed +one
Qualitative)
                area.                                                         mobile station)

Date achieved 06/18/2003                   08/20/2008
                Percentage achievement as far as operational stations are concerned is only 41%,
Comments        although 90% of the equipment has been purchased. Installation hindered by the
(incl. %        delays in obtaining necessary permissions and lack of electrical and phone
achievement) networks whereas operation hindered due to lack of financial resources necessary
                for O&M.. Another 8 meteorological stations purchased but 4 only installed.
                Routine and accurate collection of water quality monitoring data in the project
Indicator 2 : area (number of water quality monitoring stations installed in the project area and
                used appropriately to collect, analyze and report accurate water quality data).
                Limited information
Value
                available on the water
quantitative or                            24.                 NA             None.
                quality of the Karoun
Qualitative)
                river
Date achieved 06/18/2003                   08/20/2008
Comments        Zero achievement. Contracts awarded for 10 stations on Karoun and 19 stations
(incl. %        for seven rivers in northern provinces. However, no equipment has been received
achievement) as the LCs were not opened due to a host of difficulties.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                 Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                     Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                             documents)                    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Strengthening DOE institutional capacity.
Value           Limited capacity in      - Environmental                 -2 studies prepared
                                                           NA
(quantitative   environmental            economics study                 only
                                                                                                viii


or Qualitative) economics, EIA and         prepared and                         -No standards
                environmental standards. translated.                            updated
                                           - Standards on                       -No EIA Centers
                                           water and air                        established
                                           quality revised.                    See comments.
                                           - Establish 2 EIA
                                           centers.
Date achieved 06/18/2003                   08/20/2008
                This Indicator was radically changed at MTR. Original targets have been
Comments
                replaced by new ones. No achievement against original target except the
(incl. %
                preparation of two studies. Three soil pollution atlases are on-going by
achievement)
                DOE/Water and Soil Department.
                Build partnership between DOE, NGOs and other institutions by developing joint
Indicator 2 :
                environmental projects.
                                           Implementation of
                                           4 environmental                     Only one project
                                           projects                            awarded (see
Value           Limited collaboration
                                           implemented by
(quantitative   between DOE and other                          NA              comments)
                                           NGOs and 2
or Qualitative) institutions and NGO.
                                           jointly by DOE
                                           and other
                                           institutions.
Date achieved 06/18/2003                   08/20/2008
                 Target was radically changed at MTR. Percentage achievement is not more than
Comments
                10%. Progress: 1 project with an NGO is awarded; 1 workshop with NGOs
(incl. %
                provided; 1 workshop for NGOs to raise environmental awareness was
achievement)
                completed; and 8 electronic billboards purchased (seven were installed).
Indicator 3 : Training and public awareness program.
                                                                               - A total of 19
                                                                               training courses for
                                                                               about 1,000
                                                                               participants were
                                                                               conducted.
                                                                               - 2 TV clips
                                           - 30 training
                                                                               prepared but not yet
                                           courses organized.
                                                                               aired.
                                           - 2 TV clips
Value                                                                          - CoED study
                Limited public awareness prepared and aired.
(quantitative                                                  NA              completed and
                programs.                  - Environmental
or Qualitative)                                                                translated into Farsi
                                           publication printed
                                                                               - 167 CDs were
                                           & widely
                                                                               completed.
                                           distributed.
                                                                               - 55,000 copies of
                                                                               publications
                                                                               prepared and
                                                                               distributed to
                                                                               stakeholders
                                                                               /children.
Date achieved 06/18/2003                   08/20/2008
Comments         Achieved not less than 95% of targets.
                                                                                          ix


(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    04/28/2003       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    10/27/2003       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.70
  3    04/09/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.70
  4    10/19/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.70
  5    03/18/2005   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              0.91
  6    11/18/2005   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              3.98
                                                   Moderately
  7    03/30/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                                       4.08
                                                 Unsatisfactory
  8    12/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                    5.76
  9    06/26/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             5.81
 10    12/14/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             5.92
 11    06/17/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             5.92
 12    12/31/2008      Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                   7.16


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                          x


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. As part of the 2002/2003 Bank's re-engagement with the Government of Iran, a two-
year Interim Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), covering April 2001 to April 2003, was
presented to the Board in April 2001. The CAS placed emphasis on two main issues: (i)
policy dialogue on the reform program through non-lending services; and (ii) targeted
lending in social and environmental areas. Considering the priority given to the country's
environmental problems, the interim strategy suggested that the Bank could assist the
Government by supporting environmental monitoring and enforcement activities. The
Environmental Management Support Project (EMSP) was the first in a series of
interventions proposed under the Interim CAS. This approach also responded to MNA
regional strategy of placing greater emphasis on institutional building and knowledge
transfer.
.
2. Air pollution in major cities such as Tehran, Mashhad, Isfahan, Tabriz, and Ahwaz
exceeds the World Health Organization's (WHO) maximum allowable limits by 40 to
340%, and the quality of rivers and groundwater is deteriorating. In Tehran, as an
example, schools are frequently closed and residents are asked to remain indoors due to
the health risks of heavy air pollution. The Karoon River's water quality, with 30% of
Iran's surface water resources, has been deteriorating at an alarming rate due to pollution
from untreated municipal wastewater, agricultural drainage and industrial effluents. In
addition to serious impacts of water pollution on human health, substantial costs are
incurred to treat water and to transport cleaner water from distant sources.

3. Environmental protection is embedded in the country's constitution. At the time of
appraisal, the Third Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP) (2001-2005) placed high
priority on reducing pollution and preserving the country's natural and cultural resources.
In particular, air pollution was to be reduced to meet WHO standards in the cities of
Tehran, Mashhad, Tabriz, Ahwaz, Arak, Shiraz and Isfahan.

4. The Supreme Council on Environmental Protection (SCEP, chaired by the President
of Iran) is responsible for policy-making and intersectoral coordination.1 The Department
of Environment (DOE), with a seat on SCEP, is the regulatory agency in charge of
formulating environmental policies, by-laws, regulations and standards for consideration
by the Environmental High Council and other government bodies. The DOE is
responsible for research; environmental planning, monitoring and enforcement; and for
environment-related public awareness and training. Inadequate monitoring and limited


1
  It is comprised of the Ministers of Jehad-Agriculture, Industry and Mines, the Interior, Housing and
Urban Development and Health and Medical Education; the Heads of the Management and Planning
Organization, the Department of Environment (DOE), and four experts recommended by the President of
the Islamic Republic of Iran



                                                  11
enforcement capacity, however, were seriously undermining the DOE's ability to protect
public health and natural resources.

5. Experience in environmental TA projects had shown that broad-based and untargeted
environmental management capacity-building initiatives had yielded less than
satisfactory results and that stand-alone technical assistance did not work well. Hence, the
project piloted targeted interventions (focused technical assistance, procurement of air
quality and water monitoring stations and extensive training) which could be scaled up.

Lessons Learned from Previous Operations:

6. The project was the first fully fledged environmental project assisted by the Bank in
Iran. Nevertheless, the earlier Irrigation Improvement Project had several activities,
mainly studies, implemented in cooperation with the DOE. The project design tried to
reflect the lessons learned from this irrigation project and from Bank operations
worldwide. For example: i) Prioritization: A rapid institutional assessment during
preparation suggested two main areas of intervention ­ capacity-building in monitoring,
and participatory environmental investments in air and water quality management; ii)
Complex Design: recognizing the impact of local agency capability constraints, the
project was designed to be within the capacity of DOE; iii) Fiduciary Aspects: Given
past implementation problems, financial and procurement risk assessments were
undertaken, leading to the recruitment and training of procurement and financial
management staff; and iv) Capacity Building Interventions with Investments: The design
intended to anchor capacity building activities through investments ­ to show results on
the ground, to build partnerships and to enhance the creditability of the DOE.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7. The proposed project was expected to be the first phase of longer-term assistance to
the Government of Iran (GOI) to improve environmental management. The project
objective (drawn from the Project Appraisal Document - PAD) was to enhance the
capacity of the DOE to monitor air and water quality through pilot targeted interventions
in five provinces: air quality in Tehran, Isfahan, Khorasan, Markazi and water quality in
Khuzestan.2 It was expected that these interventions would in due course be scaled up,
through a programmatic approach, to cover more provinces.

8. The project's key outcome indicators in the PAD were: (i) development of joint inter-
ministerial strategies and investment programs to reduce the impacts of air and water
pollution; (ii) availability of timely and accurate information to the public on air and


2
   For unknown reasons, the PAD's PDO specified the air quality monitoring areas by "provinces": Tehran,
Isfahan, Khorasan [capital Mashhad] and Markazi [capital Arak], whereas the legal documents did not
specify the project area in the PDO, but in describing the components listed "cities" (with the same names)
as comprising the project area.



                                                    12
water quality and (iii) beneficiary surveys that show increased understanding by
stakeholders and the public of the DOE's role in protecting public health and well-being.

9. A lack of consistency can be seen between the PDO and these indicators which were
intended to track progress and results.3 A set of indicators which is more representative
of the project description, based on components of the project, was specified in a
supplemental letter (May 13, 2003) to the Loan Agreement (LA). These indicators were
used during supervision to monitor progress and are the basis of this performance
assessment (as detailed next and in Table 1).4

10. As shown in the Data Sheet above, F. Results Framework Analysis, the PDO Key
Indicators became:
          (i) Routine and accurate collection of air quality monitoring data in the project
              area; and
          (ii) Routine and accurate collection of water quality monitoring data in the
               project area.
          (iii) Strengthening DOE institutional capacity; and
          (iv) Build partnership between DOE, NGOs and other institutions by developing
               joint environmental projects .5

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

11. Changes agreed during the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in 2006 expanded project
coverage by adding two cities (Shiraz and Ahwaz) for air quality monitoring and
extending water quality monitoring to seven other rivers.6 In contrast, reflecting slow
progress at that date, five of the nine targets of the key indicators were reduced, with one
increased given the larger project area (see sections 1.6 and 3.2, Table 1). Thus, the PDO
in the PAD (which specified the project area) changed although the less specific PDO in
the Loan Agreement (which did not identify the project area) was not changed. At that



3
  Nor did these PAD indicators correspond well with the components of the project which show how loan
funds were to be spent. Moreover, the indicators in the PAD's Annex 1 were different and contained an
error: (i) institutionalization of routine and accurate data collection, interpretation and reporting of air and
water quality in the project areas; [(ii) omitted] (iii) public accessibility of up-to-date data on air and water
quality in the five provinces; (iv) enhanced perception of the DOE's role in protecting human health and
well being; (v) development of targeted strategies and programs for reducing the adverse health impacts of
air and water pollution. Such drafting looseness was the subject of comments during reviews, but was not
fully corrected.
4
  These differences are significant and are noted here as indicators of early quality issues and to be clear on
what design framework was understood by the parties during implementation and to identify the outcome
baseline for this assessment.
5
   The last two of these indicators are listed as Intermediate Outcome Indicators in the Results Framework,
but might have served as PDO indicators just as well.
6
  Both changes were at the request of the Iran authorities.


                                                      13
time formal restructuring (i.e., approved by the Bank's Board) of the project was deemed
unnecessary by managers.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12. The PAD did not discuss the beneficiaries of the project but by inference they were
expected to be the institutions being strengthened and the public in general. Public
support for pollution mitigation was to be encouraged by promoting wider awareness of
pollution issues. In particular:

       (i)    DOE would be better equipped and trained to monitor air pollution in the
              project area and water pollution in the Karoon River Basin;
       (ii) key decision-makers would have access to more reliable pollution
              information;
       (iii) the public would be better informed on air and water pollution issues, and
              mitigation behavior would be encouraged;
       (iv) public institutions responsible for monitoring and enforcing environmental
              regulations would be strengthened;
       (v) provincial DOE offices would be better able to respond to pollution
              problems;
       (vi) DOE, including provincial offices, would strengthen their partnerships and
              improve coordination with line ministries;
       (vii) municipalities would enhance their capacity to respond to public demands
              for attention to air and water pollution; and
       (viii) NGOs would play an increased role in air and water quality management
              and monitoring.

1.5 Original Components

13. The components as approved were:

Component 1: Strengthening Institutional Capacity to Monitor Air and Water
Quality (US$13.4m.). Capacity building for provincial DOE offices in Tehran, Isfahan,
Khorasan, Markazi, and in Khuzestan, supported by five sets of activities:
       (i) Mainstreaming environment into sector policies and programs (US$0.78m.).
       Mainly technical assistance, analytical studies, establishment of a Policy
       Planning Unit in DOE, and training for government officials, universities, the
       private sector and NGOs;
       (ii) Improving the legal and institutional framework governing air and water
       quality management (US$0.59m.). Diagnostic assessments; updating of the
       institutional and legal frameworks consistent with standard international practices;
       updating quality standards for water and air pollution; studies on economic
       incentives and dissemination through stakeholder training.




                                           14
       (iii) Strengthening the capacity of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
       units (US$0.31m.). Consolidation of EIA in central and provincial offices, and
       establishment of EIA units in Mashhad and Isfahan DOE offices.
       (iv) Establishing an environmental management information system
       (US$0.70m.). Establishing an electronic information network and improving
       DOE's capacity to analyze data and provide information to decision-makers.
       (v) Supplying air and water quality monitoring equipment (US$11.02m:
       Financing 49 air quality monitoring stations and 24 water quality monitoring
       stations, with related facilities, systems and training.

Component 2: Building Partnership through Pilot Environmental Projects
(US$2.50m.). Strengthening DOE's partnerships with line ministries, municipalities,
universities and civil society organizations by financing joint pilot environmental
subprojects on a demand-driven basis.

Component 3: Training and Public Awareness Programs to Improve Air and Water
Quality (US$3.80 m.).
       (i) Strengthening environmental training in air and water quality (US$1.28 m.).
       Support for the Institute for Applied Environmental Science and Research
       (IAESR) within the DOE toward improving the performance of public sector
       personnel and NGOs involved in the management of water and air quality
       activities and provide technical degree programs for high school graduates.
       (ii) Undertaking environmental public awareness programs (US$2.52 m.).
       Strengthen the DOE's capacity to undertake public awareness campaigns on air
       and water quality issues to encourage mitigating behaviors; preparation of TV
       clips, radio programs and mass publications; and a survey to evaluate the
       effectiveness of the outreach program.

Component 4: Project Management and Coordination (US$1.40 m.). Incremental
operating costs of the Project Coordination Team (PCT) within the DOE; equipment;
training in project management, procurement and financial management; and preparation
of a follow-up environmental project.

1.6 Revised Components

14. At the MTR, although disbursements were only 25% of targets when about 60% of
the project period had elapsed, the changes made not only reduced the scale of some
activities, as might be expected, but also expanded other activities and the project area.
The main changes were: i) limiting the institutional and legal component of the project to
the preparation of two policy studies and environmental standards; ii) strengthening the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) activities under the project; iii) developing an
Environmental Management Information System (MIS) for Khuzestan (only) as a first
step (to be expanded to another five provinces including three northern ones if successful;
iv) increasing the air quality monitoring stations from 49 to 62 to include two additional
cities (Shiraz and Ahwaz), v) reducing the number of water quality stations from 24 to


                                            15
10; vi) expanding the online water monitoring network to include seven additional rivers
in the Northern Provinces; and vii) reducing the number pilot projects with line ministries,
municipalities and NGOs and associated training activities.
15. The Loan Agreement was amended in June 2007 to reallocate proceeds of the Loan
and take into account the changes agreed at the MTR. Category 1 (Works) was increased
from $50,000 to US$560,000; Category 2 (Goods) was increased from US$9.8 million to
$15.0 million; Category 3 (Consultants. Services, training and workshops) was decreased
from US$6.55 million to US$2.8 million; and Category 4 (Incremental operating costs)
was increased from US$0.27 million to US$1.24 million. Parts of the Loan Agreement
were revised to facilitate the procurement process for goods and the employment of
consultants, based on experience gained during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

None

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16. With the hindsight from the project's implementation experience, it is apparent that
design weaknesses handicapped the project from the outset. The key points are:
   (a) The project was too complex and unfocused, despite being cut back and
       simplified in response to comments during processing, with too many activities
       and objectives across too many institutions. There were studies and assessments,
       administrative units to be created, air and water quality monitoring stations to be
       installed, publications to be prepared, training and outreach to be planned and
       carried out, and pilot investment projects jointly with line ministries and NGOs;
   (b) Project design quality was adversely affected by pressure to speed up
       processing, despite the project's key significance as an ice breaker for Bank/Iran
       relations after a period of lending hiatus and the many comments received by the
       team requiring substantial changes to the design, the region's operation's
       committee asked for faster processing and the team shortened its schedule
       accordingly (from concept review to appraisal took six months).
   (c) Commitment to the project by government was an issue from the start, with
       requests to the team to "solidify commitment", although the project had been
       requested by government (commitment strength was raised at the board
       discussion);
   (d) The complicated implementation arrangements needed for this wide range of
       activities was insufficiently investigated and understood;
   (e) Implications of inter-agency relationships, especially with the lead agency
       DOE at the sub-ministerial level, and the inherent constraints on cooperation
       between line ministries, municipalities and NGOs were not sufficiently assessed
       nor understood;


                                            16
    (f) The financial risk assessment carried out at appraisal failed to anticipate the
        difficulties of implementing the project under the prevailing administrative
        conditions in the country. The establishment of LCs was delayed due to
        exogenous factors;
    (g) Institutional capacity assessment of DOE was inadequate, such that its
        operational constraints were neither appreciated nor addressed sufficiently and
        improvements assured (especially management of a large number of diversified
        activities and cooperating with many line ministries and municipalities);7
    (h) Channeling all funds through DOE made it difficult to enlist participation of
        other entities in joint investments, both peer entities and even ministries which
        were of higher rank than DOE. 8 This design flaw is particularly hard to
        understand as the Bank has long been familiar with the implementation problems
        that can be caused by flat project organization structures which require
        cooperation on a collegial basis rather than in a command structure;
    (i) Inconsistencies in the PAD and legal description of the project and related
        indicators, including within the PAD itself, gave different signals on the priorities
        and on how progress would be monitored and results assessed. For example, the
        Aide Memoire of the November/December mission of 2006 uses the indicator
        framework in the supplemental letter to monitor progress, while ignoring the quite
        different PAD indicator set, without explanation. This confusion is likely to have
        contributed to later misunderstandings between the parties. 9 The project's
        complexity compounded the problem;
These issues led to major delays in project implementation, to cancellation or reduction
of some proposed activities and to slow disbursements of Loan funds. However, besides
implementation factors discussed next, an overriding point at the beginning was that both
the Borrower and the Bank initiated the operation with insufficient understanding of the
procedural requirements and constraints of the other partner.

2.2 Implementation

17. Implementation of the project was handicapped by the stop-and-go nature of the
country/Bank relationship as well as the difficulties in establishing the LCs. Furthermore,
there were the repercussions of a change of government half way along, and a broad
combination of factors relating to both support for and commitment to the project, and
several process issues including the reluctance of international suppliers to participate in
project bidding. Once issues emerged, the uncertain status of the renewed relationship
between the Bank and the government inhibited the Bank from taking bolder actions that
might have led to improved performance. In the absence of strong cooperation toward
meeting project objectives, these problems mostly could not be resolved and continued as


7
  Partly this was a result of DOE's own decisions as noted later in this report, but also the Bank failed to
take full note and act on its experience in many environmental projects where a major constraint was weak
environmental institutions with low rank in the political and bureaucratic power structure.
8
  Thus the institutional benefits of such joint enterprises could not be realized.
9
  The ICR mission was advised as such in discussion with project authorities.


                                                     17
constraints throughout. A common problem seems to have been unfamiliarity in some
agencies with the Bank's processes and procedures, to which GOI had agreed, and on the
Bank's part, insufficient attention to providing information and coaching to overcome
such knowledge gaps. A Project Launch Seminar provided some training, but did not
cover Bank processes adequately, especially procurement and financial management.

Main factors are summarized as follows.

   (a) Bank/Iran relationship constraint on project-specific actions: At the end of a
       long hiatus in the relationship between the country and the Bank, the project was
       proposed as the first new lending to re-engage in Iran. However, over the course
       of implementation, the relationship between the Bank and government was
       sometimes strained, and as such project issues often did not get the forthright
       attention that they deserved in the context of their importance to project success,
       and Bank/country communications on project issues were muted (as a review of
       routine correspondence revealed). Furthermore, the relationship was put under
       even greater pressure when there was a government change at elections in mid-
       2005, which with increasing oil revenues saw, the Bank-funded project lose
       priority in government circles. These factors were compounded by more project-
       specific constraints, as next described.
   (b) GOI support for the project: Two distinct project personnel factors affected
       project implementation progress. First, even though commitment at the highest
       level was strong early on, the pace of project implementation throughout was
       largely determined by the performance of GOI's key staff, especially the financial
       controller (housed in DOE premises). This unit failed to support the project fully
       and was slow to resolve issues hindering its progress. Bank actions to overcome
       this institutional constraint included holding several teleconferences with PCT
       staff as well as agreeing on lists of remedial measures, but these initiatives had
       limited success. Second, the change of government in September, 2005 led to
       appointment of new officials in key positions who had less commitment to the
       project, both reflecting Iran's global perspective at the time and that sharply rising
       oil revenues undermined justification for the Bank loan. As a result the project
       was not implemented with any great urgency and what should have been minor
       issues often became major constraints on progress.
   (c) PCT management and staffing: Due to local restrictions on hiring, only six of
       the nine specialists agreed at appraisal were hired, and thus PCT remained
       understaffed. Consequently the PCT was weakened and could not provide
       sufficient staff inputs on most activities, e.g., such as for follow-up on studies
       completed to make use of them, on the installation and operation of air quality
       monitoring equipment, and on coordination with stakeholders. The inability to
       retain high caliber procurement officers on a permanent basis constrained
       procurement throughout. When management of DOE changed after the change of
       government, experienced staff was lost to the project. Changing the main




                                            18
        members of the PCT just before the Mid-term Review was particularly
        inconvenient.10
     (d) DOE institutional strengthening objective: DOE's decision in 2006 not to
         engage the technical assistance team (intended to strengthen DOE's institutional
         capacity) was a missed opportunity. In good measure that change accounts for
         early performance issues not being corrected, and greatly weakened the
         overriding capacity focus of the project's development objective.
     (e) Process and procedure constraints: These included (i) strict and lengthy
         financial procedures which resulted in greatly delayed payments (several times in
         2005 and 2008) to PCT members (salaries), and to contractors and consultants;
         (ii) reluctance to abide by the World Bank's standard procurement and
         disbursement procedures; and (iii) the proportionality of payments between the
         loan and counterpart funds resulted in delays due to the late availability of
         counterpart funds at the beginning of the Iranian FY.
     (f) Procurement difficulties: Procurement of equipment, especially the water
         quality monitoring stations, proved to be difficult, sometimes due to unforeseen
         technical issues (e.g., the change in signal transmission mode), due to delays in
         obtaining permits for electrical and telephone lines, to financial bottlenecks
         (difficulties in opening LCs causing further procurement and disbursement
         delays) and to lack of interested suppliers. There were difficulties particularly in
         dealing with local and international suppliers for the water quality equipment.
         Also, personnel hired and trained in procurement were not always of high caliber
         or available when required given government restrictions on hiring and the
         difficult operating environment in Iran at the time.
     (g) Inter-agency cooperation: Limited cooperation by the line ministries and
         municipalities with DOE, which may have been attributable largely to DOE's
         sub-ministerial rank and that project funds were centralized in DOE (the planned
         financial transfers between the DOE and partnering institutions did not occur),
         weak ownership of the project, and lack of an inter-agency steering committee.
     (h) Pilot projects: Ministries and municipalities were reluctant to implement pilot
         projects when DOE controlled the funds. Fewer than expected projects were
         proposed with NGOs and only one was awarded. This seriously constrained both
         the development of the proposed partnerships strategy and the accumulation of
         experience that was expected from implementing such pilot environmental sub-
         projects.11
     (i) Tehran MIS: this activity was not pursued under the project when another
         project stepped in.



10
   The morale of PCT staff was affected by salary caps, some being put on to a part time basis, and
eventually by lack of pay for eight months from March 2008.
11
   Implementation of environmental improvements during projects such as EMSP (directed mainly at
enhancing environmental management capability) has been identified as a key ingredient of similar Bank-
assisted environmental interventions.


                                                   19
     (j) Specification change: the Ministry of Telecommunications changed the
         transmission mode for monitoring stations from telemetry to satellite after
         procurement of related equipment was already under way;
     (k) Bank supervision and follow up was inadequate in volume and of mixed
         quality: Supervision missions were not carried out on a regular basis (due at to
         both staff shortages associated with an internal reorganization and, for one critical
         mid period, health constraints on travel by the task leader), although the Bank
         tried to keep regular contact with the DOE team through phone calls and emails.12
         The early recommendation (October, 2004) by a manager, who participated in a
         mission and saw the project as "labor intensive", for supervision "at intervals of
         three-months or less" was not acted on (with no explanation found). There were
         only two full missions over the next 26 months. Mission intervals averaged six
         months overall, even when including less than full missions in the count, and only
         half the missions were led by the regular task leader. Reporting was inconsistent,
         with only half the missions filing a prompt formal status update and half the
         formal status reports being "desk updates" without a mission.13 Consequently, the
         Bank did not correctly and promptly assess implementation problems and did not
         take sufficient action towards resolving problems, for example by bringing
         constraints caused by unwarranted controls to the attention of higher levels of the
         Government. Lack of sufficient Bank follow-up may have been partly attributable
         to performance ratings remaining in the satisfactory range for most of the period,
         despite serious implementation issues. The pattern was set by the first field
         supervision mission in December 2003, which reported (four months later) a
         number of serious issues, but gave Satisfactory ratings across the board and
         "modest risk". 14 It was March 2005 before a downgrade to Moderately
         Satisfactory appears, with the one Moderately Unsatisfactory (for implementation
         progress) in March 2006. More realistic ratings would have attracted management
         attention and action earlier, with the two Unsatisfactory ratings for outcome and
         implementation progress in December 2008 coming too late. 15 Also, country
         relations considerations may well have tempered management communications on
         critical issues (for example, it was not until near the end that management letters
         even mentioned pending problems, being satisfied with pro forma courtesies and
         bland comments on purported progress or expectations of progress).



12
    Given the continuous implementation problems, the frequency of field supervision missions was
especially inadequate over later years, with only three full supervision missions between 2006 and 2008,
i.e., one mission a year.
13
     Even so, when missions did occur and reported, the level of detail recorded in the files is impressive,
and missions generally left behind in their aide memoires a remarkably specific list of next steps
(sometimes running to 30 to 40 items) which project staff could have readily followed to accelerate
progress if stronger commitment had existed.
14
    Bank comments often struck an unwarranted optimistic note, with references to progress being made and
disbursements expected to increase, capped by the June, 2007 assessment that the "project is progressing
toward meeting its development objective".
15
    Without explanation, the "system generated" disbursement warning flag was never raised, and the
country record flag flew on only three occasions ­ between March 2005 and December 2007.


                                                    20
     (l) Adjusting for poor performance: The MTR (December 2006) took place six
         months later than originally scheduled, despite a large implementation lag, to
         allow more time for the new team of Iranian managers to familiarize themselves
         with the project. At this time the Bank determined that the project development
         objectives were still valid and that there was no need for a formal project
         restructuring (although as noted earlier, new Bank procedures suggested
         otherwise).16 Nevertheless, the Bank suggested and GOI agreed to some major
         changes to the project's sub-components (as detailed earlier). Subsequent
         experience suggests that formal restructuring and cancellation of some of the
         Loan proceeds would have been a better choice at that time, and indeed was
         mentioned in writing by the Bank Team as a possibility. Thus in June, 2006 the
         agreed Remedial Action Plan recorded in the aide memoire aimed "to avoid major
         project restructuring during the MTR".17

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

18. The project had a detailed M & E plan comprising Bank supervision missions,
beneficiary impact assessments, financial and procurement audits, and project status
reports. This M & E plan was part of the Project Implementation Plan given the central
role M&E plays in these types of projects, but the project did not attach priority to
implementing this plan. The National Advisory Committee and the provincial Steering
Committee were expected to monitor progress and provide advice on project
implementation, but neither committee was established. Other M & E tools envisaged
technical reviews by independent consultants hired by the PCT, on the establishment and
operation of the air and water quality monitoring stations, but none were hired. The PCT
was also expected to hire consultants to conduct annual beneficiary impact assessments to
monitor key output indicators, but did not do so.

19. Progress reports including Procurement Planning were prepared on an ad hoc basis.
The PCT did not have staff solely dedicated to M & E, therefore monitoring was carried
by the PCT coordinator with the help of core staff (procurement and financial specialists).
In short, the project did not attempt to carry out any systematic evaluations.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

20. Initially, project FM performance was weak, however with Bank support capacity
was upgraded and the project complied with FM requirements most of the time. The
project introduced new Financial Management practices to the DOE. The loan was
DOE's first experience of foreign currency financing and exchange differences. To


16
   "Formal" implies that the PDO and/or associated outcome targets are changed, requiring approval by the
Bank's Board.
17
    Reviewers of this report in draft queried whether there should have been at his time consideration of
cutting back, rather than expansion, and even cancellation. However, that was far from the mood in the
Bank at that time, which noted after the MTR in December 2006 to the government that "The project
development objective is being met. ..... Based on the progress made to date ..... the team has upgraded the
project from unsatisfactory to satisfactory."


                                                    21
facilitate the reporting aspects of the project, the financial reports were prepared
independently from DOE's financial department.

21. However, relations between the project unit and the Financial Controller18 were not
always smooth and this had direct impact on the project's FM performance. Also, the
payments of PCT salaries were irregular at times which did not help motivation towards
the project and FM requirements.

22. Bank audit guidelines and scope were introduced to the external auditor assigned one
year into the project's life. The project audits initially had qualifications, but these were
soon dealt with and eliminated. Throughout the project's life the FM ratings ranged
between Moderately Unsatisfactory and Satisfactory.

23. To ensure full compliance with the Bank procurement guidelines, the Bank's standard
bidding documents were used, but still ex-post procurement reviews found procurement
compliance to be moderately unsatisfactory. DOE, Financial Controllers (FCs) and the
PCT had to become familiar with the Bank Procurement Guidelines versus the country's
systems, and to find ways to resolve any conflicts through mutual cooperation. Staff
turnover, caused by local regulations, and three different FCs reduced familiarity with
Bank procedures. Better management of procurement with timely acquisition of the
required permits would have contributed to improved implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

24. Most of the project funds have gone towards procurement of air quality monitoring
stations, studies, training, and awareness campaigns. At Loan closing much remained to
be done to make the physical assets operational.
          DOE capacity strengthening: the lost opportunity to strengthen DOE's
         institutional capacity ­ by failing to engage the planned technical assistance team
         ­ has contributed to uncertain prospects for effective post-completion operations.
          Air quality stations: Only 20 of 43 installed air quality stations were
         operational. The remaining stations are expected to become operational once the
         issue of O&M costs are resolved between Central and Provincial DOE. DOE
         provincial staff has been trained on several occasions on the O&M of such
         equipment and on the interpretation and analysis of data. The training courses for
         stakeholders, as well as the large number of publications distributed to a wide
         variety of stakeholders, are expected to have a lasting effect.
          Meteorological stations: only four were installed (eight were purchased)
         though not operational. It is expected to install the remaining stations as well as
         commission the already installed ones once the administrative procedures and
         understandings between DOE and the supplier have been finalized.



18 Even though there were three different Financial Controllers (FCs) throughout the project life, the
relationship between the FCs and the PCT has not had any significant change.


                                                    22
        Water quality monitoring stations: Despite awarding contracts for 29
       stations, no LCs were opened and DOE's further intentions are unclear.
        Soil Atlases: The three that were contracted out have not yet been delivered
       and their status is also unclear (the Water and Soil Department at DOE is
       responsible for following up).

25. It was agreed during the last supervision mission of August 2008 that the different
project activities would be integrated into the respective DOE departments, which has
occurred. To facilitate such integration, an advisory committee consisting of the directors
of the respective departments was be created and was to oversee the implementation of
the activities, involving the staff in the monitoring, follow up and transfer of knowledge
generated by the project. However, the advisory committee has not been created.

26. No follow-up project for Bank assistance is envisaged at present.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

27. Since the project objectives addressed some of the country's most urgent
environmental pollution problems and sought to strengthen environmental management
institutions, they were and still are highly relevant. This was reflected in the country's
strategic policies and in the FY01-FY03 CAS priorities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

28. The project's design flaws and constraints on implementation outlined in section 2
above resulted in generally poor progress toward achieving the project objectives, and the
changes introduced at the MTR were ineffective in reviving the project. The details of
achievements are in the Data Sheet's Results Framework and are summarized here for
convenience.

   1. Routine and accurate collection of air quality monitoring data in the project area:
      With only 20 stations operational out of 49 planned, this key activity is well down
      on its target (41%), although 90% of the equipment has been purchased.
   2. Routine and accurate collection of water quality monitoring data in the project
      area: No water quality monitoring stations have been purchased such that
      achieving this objective is far off.
   3. Strengthening DOE institutional capacity: Plans were changed radically at MTR
      but little has been achieved compared with original intentions.
   4. Build partnership between DOE, NGOs and other institutions by developing joint
      environmental projects: This target was also radically changed at MTR, with only
      about a tenth of the plan realized.




                                            23
       5. Training and public awareness program: This was the one area of significant
          results. Activities were pursued successfully such that achievement is estimated at
          not less than 95% of plans.
29. In support of the outcome assessment, details of project outputs and the issues
constraining achievement of objectives are in Annex 2 and Table 1 summarizes the main
quantities. Table 1 also records the quantitative changes made at MTR, although in the
absence of formal revision of PDO targets (approved by the original approving authority),
World Bank evaluation criteria require assessment against original targets (ICR
Guidelines, Appendix B).


Table 1 Outcome Indicators ­ Targets and Achievements
                                                                                       Outputs                               Percentage
               Activity                                                                                                     Achievement
 (numbers 1-5 correspond to the five                                                                                          (against
                                                                                    Revised                Actual
indicators in the Results Framework)                          Appraisal                                                      Appraisal
                                                                                    (MTR)                (at closing)
                                                                                                                               target)
1. Air quality monitoring stations                                                                             20
                                                                    49                  62                                     41%
   (operational)                                                                                         (43 installed)
2. Water quality stations (operational)                             24                  10                       0             None
3. Strengthening DOE Institutional
   Capacity
   3a.Policy Units created                                           1                   1                       1             100%
     3b.EIA Units created                                            2                   1                       0             None
     3c.MIS installed                                                3                   1                       1              33%
     3d. Environmental studies &
                                                                     9                   5            2 (+3 underway)           22%
         technical/legal reviews
4. Pilot Project expenditure with line
                                                                 $2.5m.              $1.4m.                 $1.4m.19           56%
   ministries & NGOs
5. Training and Public Awareness
   5a.TV and radio spots                                            10                  10             2 (not yet aired)         20%
     5b.Training courses and workshops                              36                  28                      19              53%



3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)




19   Only 1 project with municipalities (air quality billboards not yet operational and only 1 project awarded to an NGO.




                                                                   24
30. Projects of this type do not attempt to quantify efficiency with cost benefit analyses,
but in this case it is clear that financial and implementation efficiency was poor. The
constraints on implementation described above, some of which were process related or
reflected changed priorities, led directly to resource inefficiencies. Capital has been
invested in equipment without the equipment yet being put to work as intended. Hence,
overall the project is assessed as performing unsatisfactorily in terms of efficiency.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Unsatisfactory
31. At project closing, the overall outcome of the project is rated Unsatisfactory, based
on relevance, efficiency and the outcome analysis in the Results Framework as
summarized above. Although the project objectives are still highly relevant, the weak
attempt to follow through on implementation, and the resulting major shortcomings on
outcomes with much left to do, fully justify the Unsatisfactory rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

32. One of the main impacts of the project was better public awareness of air and water
pollution issues, which issues have direct poverty and health implications. A large
number of training activities were undertaken. About a third of the training efforts were
directly on the poverty and health implications of pollution. Public awareness was also
raised by the distribution of a large number of books, publications, pamphlets and VCDs,
as well as the production of TV clips which will be aired.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

33. DOE personnel in Tehran and the five provinces were trained on a wide range of
subjects (about 7 themes). Training was also given to personnel in line ministries, local
government, universities and NGOs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

34. The risks to the development outcome are rated Significant, based mainly on the
failure to implement the project's original key activities (establishment of accurate air
and water quality monitoring), which suggests that commitment to completing
monitoring stations, maintaining them in operation and sustaining what was achieved


                                            25
may be weak. The O&M of the installed air quality monitoring stations depends on
continuous financial support by DOE and training of staff. DOE's staffing performance
during the project was unsatisfactory.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

35. Section 2.1 details significant design weaknesses that indicate that, taken together,
from the beginning the project was severely handicapped. Most of these weaknesses can
be traced to faulty judgment and over-ambitious expectations of what could be achieved
in the special circumstances of the Bank/Iran relationship at that time. In particular the
Bank overestimated DOE's capability to handle large number of activities and
underestimated the difficulties of getting the line ministries and the municipalities to
cooperate with DOE (while all funding remained under the direct authority of DOE).
From long experience, that last key issue was well known and understood in the Bank
elsewhere. Despite the financial risk assessment carried out at appraisal, the Bank failed
to appreciate the difficulties of implementing the project under the controlling entities
special to Iran. Later events proved that the Bank had not adequately established the
commitment of different government entities to the objectives and the implementation
requirements of the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

36. Supervision by the Bank did not fully respond to the needs of the project, especially
when it became clear that implementation was falling behind and serious problems
started to emerge. Supervision missions were not frequent enough, although the Bank
tried to keep regular contact with the DOE team through phone calls and emails. The
Bank was slow to identify implementation problems and then did not adopt bold remedial
measures, possibly partly because concerns for preserving the whole relationship took
precedence over stronger action to resolve issues on a single project. As raised already,
while this was happening the project was rated Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory
for PDO and Implementation Progress on 11 occasions (remarkably, up to June 2008),
with only one Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for IP in 2006 (see Data Sheet, G.). This
suggests a consistent pattern by the supervision team of supporting greatly inflated
ratings, which was not corrected by managers, and probably contributed to a lack of
urgency to resolve problems.20 As implementation began to slip, especially as in-country


20
   After ratings dropped below Satisfactory, Bank communications with the project authorities refer to the
performance ratings in urging implementation actions to improve ratings, especially after the Moderately


                                                   26
commitment weakened, much more active intervention by the Bank was needed to stop
the slide or at least to minimize the inefficiencies arising.

37. The late changes to the design at MTR were in hindsight impractical and were not
implemented. Although changes were made to the project design and to expenditure
allocations, cancellation of Loan proceeds (given low disbursements), or suspension of
disbursement as means of getting the project back on track, did not occur.21 However, as
noted earlier, there were a number of external factors which affected project performance
over which the Bank had no control, including the banking difficulties, and the Bank's
concern to reestablish a productive working relationship with Iran was a major
consideration most probably affecting its actions on project issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

38. The Unsatisfactory rating for overall Bank performance reflects the ratings given to
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and for the quality of supervision,
reflecting major shortcomings. In particular, once the design weaknesses began to emerge
as implementation slipped, the response of the Bank was inadequate.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

39. Despite that the GOI and the DOE top management were supportive of the project
and in-country ownership was thought to have been established at the identification,
preparation and appraisal phases, discussion above has outlined the several ways in
which that original level of commitment did not sustain through to implementing the
project according to agreed plans and processes. GOI through its Financial Controller
(located in DOE premises) failed to support implementation vigorously and to quickly
resolve issues hindering its progress.22 Indeed, as discussed in section 2.2, some actions
of key agents contributed to complicating and undermining implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.


Unsatisfactory rating for implementation in March, 2006, but starting with first mission's blanket
Satisfactory ratings for a project in difficulty, the ratings did not fall sufficiently to signal adequately the
seriousness of problems
21
   Although, as already noted, the possibility of restructuring and cancellation of funds had featured in the
dialogue with project authorities.
22
   Replacing the Financial Controller twice during implementation should have provided opportunity to
correct any issues concerning this key position, but also would have had continuity costs.


                                                       27
40. Reference to section 2, where factors affecting implementation and outcomes are
discussed, provides details on aspects of agency performance as they impacted the project.
DOE was closely involved in project identification, and was committed especially to the
establishment of the air and water quality monitoring systems. However, when it came to
implementation, and the many activities it was expected to manage, it suffered from
understaffing and staff changes which further constrained its efforts, and, as was noted
above with respect to Bank performance, there were complicated banking arrangements
which gave rise to further difficulties for the Iranian authorities in implementing the
project. This related especially, as described above, to PCT insufficiently monitoring and
following-up on almost all the key activities of the project. The performance of other
ministries and NGOs on partnership aspects of the project (in joint sub-projects) was
essentially moot as few such activities occurred, largely through unwillingness to
cooperate as planned.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

41. The rating of Unsatisfactory reflects Government performance and the Implementing
Agency performance ratings above and acknowledges major shortcomings which led to
the unsatisfactory outcome of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

General Lessons:

        i) Choice of project in special situations: The type of intervention chosen and its
        design in special situations, such as when reopening a Bank/borrower relationship,
        should be simple and not too demanding on the borrower and its agencies.
        (ii) Early restructuring: When major changes in project activities are required, a
        prompt formal restructuring of the project is preferable to later changes which
        may come too late to affect outcome.23
        ii) Bank options when a project stalls: The Bank should use the possibility of
        suspending disbursements or canceling funds to encourage prompt remedial
        measures, when, (a) a Government and/or the implementation agency are failing
        to efficiently implement a project due to internal institutional, administrative and
        financial problems, and (b) Bank regulations and guidelines are not being
        followed.




23
   Early restructuring also improves the final outcome performance rating through weighting of
performance before and after restructuring (see ICR Guidelines).


                                                   28
       Project-Specific Lessons:
       i) Matching agency implementation capacity: Scope and scale of a project
       should be well within the implementation capacity of key agencies, especially
       when prior Bank experience with the implementing agencies is lacking.
       ii) Hierarchy and project organization structure: where the flow of funds and
       project activities involve a number of entities, project organization and the
       channeling of funds must reflect command structures rather than expect peer
       coordination on a collegial basis to be a sufficient mechanism for efficient
       implementation.
       iii) Resolving project implementation issues: Resorting to the highest level of
       the Government may be necessary when a combination of constraining factors is
       outside the competence and reach of implementing agencies alone.
       iv) Supervision resource management: Once it is clear that project's activities
       are lagging, more frequent and stronger supervision missions, with adequate
       managerial support, should be undertaken.
       v) Realistic project performance ratings: Managers should take special care to
       ensure that project performance ratings in supervision reports correctly reflect
       project status, since inflated ratings can convey a false sense of project well-being
       which can contribute to denying a failing project the attention and resources it
       needs.
       vi) M&E design and implementation: A strong central M&E system within the
       lead implementation agency should be standard in projects with multiple activities
       and several agencies involved, so that problems are detected early and signaled to
       the Bank and to the Government.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The comments of the GOI have been taken into consideration in the final ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

None received.




                                            29
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                      Reallocated                                Actual as
                                          Appraisal                      Actual/Latest
              Components                               Costs at                                Percentage of
                                          Estimate                         Estimate
                                                        MTR                                     Appraisal
 1. Strengthening Institutional
                                             13.4         14.5              5.94                     44
   Capacity to Monitor Air and Water
 2. Building Partnership Through Pilot
                                              2.5          1.4              0.27                     11
   Environmental Projects
 3. Training and Public Awareness
   Programs To Improve Air and                3.8          1.1              0.58                     15
   Water Quality
 4. Project Management and
                                              1.4          1.1              1.19                     85
   Coordination
 Contingencies                                1.7           -                -                       -
                  Total Baseline Cost        22.80         18.1              7.98                    35
 Physical Contingencies                       0.03                               0
 Price Contingencies                          1.67                               0
                   Total Project Costs       24.50                           7.98                    33
 Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                           0.00
 Front-end fee IBRD                           0.20                           0.20
            Total Financing Required         23.00                           8.08                    35



(b) Financing
                                           Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                                     Percentage of
            Source of Funds                Estimate          Estimate
                                                                                      Appraisal
                                         (USD millions)   (USD millions)
 Borrower                                     2.10                0.96                    46
 International Bank for
                                             20.00                7.14                    36
 Reconstruction and Development
  Foreign Multilateral Institutions
                                              0.90                0.00                    0
 (unidentified)




                                               30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Strengthening Institutional Capacity to Monitor Air and Water
Quality (Total Costs: at appraisal US$11.8 million; at MTR: US$14.5 million)

Subcomponent 1.1: Mainstreaming Environment into Policies and Programs.

1.      At MTR, it was agreed that this sub-component will be limited to the
establishment of the Policy Planning Unit within the new organizational structure of the
DOE and that in accordance with the 4th Economic and Social Development Plan, the
Management and Planning Organization (MPO) would prepare guidelines, in
collaboration with DOE, on economic evaluation and green accounting for high priorities
environmental issues. The DOE was reorganized and a department for Education,
Research and Planning was established (instead of the proposed Planning Unit). However,
the guidelines and the studies were not initiated.

2.      Only two of the nine studies proposed at appraisal were completed. The first one
was the "Cost of Environmental Degradation" and second one was the "Energy-
Environment Review". Dissemination of those two studies to stakeholders was carried
out through presentations, training and workshops.

Subcomponent 1.2: Improve the Legal and Institutional Framework Governing Air and
Water Quality Management.

3.     This sub-component was limited to updating the quality standards for air and
water pollution and to the dissemination of those standards to stakeholders. A contract
was awarded to a university in early 2008 (US$0.16 million) to carry out the update of the
water and soil pollution standards. However, this study was never completed.

4.       The rest of this sub-component, mainly the diagnostic assessment of the
institutions responsible for air and water quality management has been covered though
the work undertaken by the air quality specialist hired by the project (US$0.11 million).
Despite having some limited deliverables, the work was not finalized.

5.      The other proposed study under this component "Updating the Legal Framework"
was not carried out at the request of the Borrower under the pretext that this study should
await the re-organization of the DOE.

Subcomponent 1.3:     Enhancement of the EIA system at the National and Provincial
levels.

6.      Originally, this sub-component consisted of several tasks: (i) updating and
amending the present EIA legal framework in accordance with international good
practice; (ii) updating and developing sectoral guidelines for ELA preparation, review
and implementation; (iii) strengthening the capacity of line ministries and consulting
firms to prepare EIAs through better guidelines and training programs; (iv) building



                                            31
DOE's capacity to monitor the implementation of Environmental Management Plans; (v)
establishing EIA units and databases in Tehran, and the provincial DOE offices of
Khorasan and Khuzestan; (vi) in collaboration with NGOs and the media, establishing
procedures and mechanisms for public participation and consultation in the EIA process
and disclosure of relevant project documents; and (vii) increase public awareness and
outreach to policy makers and communities.

7.      During early implementation and at the request of the new DOE administration,
this sub-component was partially cancelled. The remaining task consisted of establishing
two EIA units at the provincial levels and the strengthening of the EIA capacity at the
central level. No EIA units were established by the project.

8.      A contract with a national consultant aiming at in-depth study of the present status
and proposed actions was signed though the work did not start to-date. To facilitate this
work, the Bank provided the EIA department with a copy of its safeguards policies in
Farsi as well as the guidelines for the preparation and review of the EIA.

Subcomponent 1.4: Establish an Environment Management Information System at DOE
in Khorasan and Khuzestan, Markazi and three Northern provinces (Mazandaran,
Guilan and Golestan).

9.      The revised sub-component proposed that the project would finance the
development of hardware and software for the province of Khuzestan to improve its
environmental management information system (at appraisal, the intention was to
establish MISs in three provinces: Tehran, Khuzestan and Khorasan).

10.     By the closing date, the project was developing software and purchasing the
required hardware for the Khuzestan province. The new system aim was to improve the
flow of information including air and water quality between the DOE office of Khuzestan
and its 13 affiliated sub-offices. Once this system is operational, it was expected to be
replicated in the other provinces. The Provincial DOE in Tehran separately financed a
contract to improve its MIS.

Subcomponent 1.5.1: Air Quality Monitoring.

11.    The MTR called for the purchase, installation and operation of 62 air quality
monitoring stations in seven cities, although the original number stated in the PAD was
only 49 stations.

12.     Forty four air quality monitoring stations (MS) and 8 meteorological stations
(MES) have been purchased (Euro 4.50 million). A Letter of Credit for an additional 10
stations was opened (Euro 1.00 million), but the equipment was never procured. Out of
the purchased and delivered stations to the four cities: Tehran, Mashhad, Isfahan and




                                            32
Arak; 20 MS are operational, 23 MS are installed24 but not yet operational and none of
the 8 MES were installed.

13.     The reasons for the delays are attributed to the fact that there was no
memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed reflecting the responsibility of the DOE
and the provinces for the permits, installation, and operation of the equipment, the
financial resources required by the provinces, and the budget for O&M of the equipment
(see 2.2, Implementation). DOE air quality personnel of all cities have received multiple
training on O&M of the equipment. In addition to the above, 11 meteorological towers
were manufactured and installed for a total cost of about US$0.30 million.

14.    In addition to the above, three studies were contracted (US$0.46 million, partially
paid): "Development of air emissions inventory of Iran", "Source apportionment of
ambient airborne particulate matter concentration in Tehran", and "Air quality survey in
Tehran, Arak, Isfahan and Mashad using passive samples". The first two studies have not
been completed due to partial payment whereas the third has not started given that the
needed air monitoring equipment was not operational.

Subcomponent 1.5.2: Water Quality Monitoring.

15.      During the MTR mission, an agreement was reached to extend the online water
quality monitoring network proposed for Karun River to 7 other rivers in the Northern
provinces that are discharging into the Caspian Sea provided that a field assessment is
prepared and approved by the Bank. As a result, the PCT awarded three contracts on a
competitive basis as follows: (a) EURO 0.49 million to provide fixed and mobile
laboratory equipment for four cities in Khuzestan province (Ahwaz, Dezful, Abadan,
Shush tar); (b) US$1.52 million to purchase, install and operate water quality field
monitoring and sampling equipment for Karun River; (c) US$2.70 million to purchase,
install and operate water quality field monitoring and sampling equipment for 7 rivers in
Northern Provinces.

16.      The status of implementation of these contracts is as follows:

         a. Fixed and mobile laboratory equipment for Khuzestan. The contract was
         signed in February 2007 and the equipment was supposed to be delivered within 4
         months of contract signature. This did not materialize due to significant
         administrative problems related (unwarranted control by the Financial Controller
         Office and ongoing delays due to switching the L/C from Melli Bank to Meskan
         Bank).




24
  This is in addition to one mobile station which was also purchased but does not require installation as
such.



                                                    33
        b. Monitoring equipment for Karun and seven rivers. The contract was signed in
        August 2007. However the L/C was not opened as a result of: (i) a change in the
        telemetry specifications from wireless to satellite transmission as requested by the
        Ministry of Telecommunications; (ii) opening of the L/C in Mesken Bank; and
        (iii) the security bond, required by the contract, was delayed by the supplier due to
        his inability to provide it.

Component 2: Building Partnership through Pilot Environmental Projects (Total
Costs: at appraisal US$2.4 million; at MTR: US$1.4 million)

Subcomponent 2.1: Pilot projects in air and water quality to be implemented by
municipalities and line ministries

17.     At MTR, it was agreed to focus on the following two activities only:

      i. To purchase and install 8 electronic billboards that would be linked to the
        monitoring stations and would broadcast live data on air qualities (2 for the city of
        Tehran and 2 for Mashhad, 1 for Arak, 1 for Shiraz, 1 for Ahwaz and 1 for
        Isfahan) for an estimated amount of US$130,000. The 8 electronic boards have
        been purchased though only 7 have been installed.

      ii. To prepare Soil Atlases for the five most polluted provinces (Isfahan, Guilan,
         Mazendaran, Khuzestan and Khorasan). This would require soil sampling,
         analysis, statistical analysis and digital mapping. The PCT contracted the work
         (US$0.84 million partially paid by PCT) though no work on the Atlases had
         started until project closure. Only three Soil Atlases are currently being prepared
         under the direct supervision of the Water and Soil Department at DOE.

Subcomponent 2.2: Pilot projects to be implemented by NGOs

18.     Only 8 proposals for US$30,000 to US$60,000 each, from 8 provinces (Isfahan,
Khorosan, Teheran, Khuzestan, Guilan, Mazendaran and Markazi) were received.
Proposals comprised raising awareness for and by the local NGOs including workshops,
preparing and distributing printed materials and broadcasting. A contract was signed with
a national consultant (US$6,500) to help in reviewing the proposals and only one has
been awarded (US$0.057 million). However, the NGO was only able to receive the
advance payment and there are still some administrative obstacles for the NGO to initiate
the project.

Component 3: Training and Public Awareness Programs to Improve Air & Water
Quality (Total Costs: at appraisal US$2.7 million; at MTR: US$1.1 million)

Subcomponent 3.1: Strengthen Environment Training in Air and Water Quality

19.   In total, 19 training courses and workshops have been delivered. There were about
1,000 participants in the training courses. The course themes included: project



                                             34
implementation, environmental degradation, trade and environment, procurement,
financial management, banking transaction, communication and air and water quality
monitoring, etc. Total costs of all those training programs were about US$0.30 million
(partially paid).

Subcomponent 3.2: Environmental Awareness

20.     This sub-component covers media campaigns, publication of environmental
books and the preparation of communication strategy and opinion poll surveys. Total
costs for this sub-component was about US$0.30 million.

21.    The project successfully prepared two TV clips aimed at raising awareness about
environmental issues to the general public. These clips will be broadcasted on TV.
However, because of low rates the DOE can obtain for air time, the proposed budget for
this activity was reduced. The project also financed the preparation of educational
awarded material and publication of various environmental books, pamphlets, and posters
that have been widely distributed in Iran. As regards the communication strategy for
DOE, it was not developed nor was the opinion poll survey for some Tehran residents
conducted as planned.

Component 4: Project Management and Coordination (Total Costs: at appraisal
US$1.10 million; at MTR US$1.10 million)

22.    This component financed the incremental costs for the establishment and
operation of the Project Coordination Team (PCT) within DOE. By 2008, the PCT
consisted of a full-time project coordinator, liaison officer and part-time procurement and
financial specialists, and air and water quality specialists (originally 9 specialists were
earmarked for the PCT).

23.    The PCT continued to manage and coordinate the project activities; however, it
remained understaffed throughout the project duration (see 2.2. Implementation). Salaries
of the PCT were suspended as of March 21, 2008 and for a period of 6 months25 on
grounds that the type of contract signed by DOE and implemented for the previous years,
was not in compliance with consulting services as per the interpretation of the new
Financial Controller.

24.   In addition, under this project component, six vehicles, five computers, and office
equipment and furniture were procured.




25 The ICR Mission in late May 2009 found that the Project Coordinator's salary was still suspended.



                                                   35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not Applicable - being a TA project.




                                       36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
         Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Sherif Kamel F. Arif       Regional Environment Coordinator     MNSRE   Environment
Mohammed Bekhechi          Lead Counsel                           -     Legal
Meskerem Brhane            Social Scientist                     MNSRE   Sociology
Anne Carlin                Consultant                             -     Editor
Bruce Harris               Peer Reviewer                          -     Environment
Steve Lintner              Peer Reviewer                          -     Environment
Rusdian Lubis              Sr. Environment Specialist             -     Environment
Nezam Motabar              Sr. Financial Manag. Specialist      MNSRE   Fin. Management
Sylvie Pittman             Language Program Assistant           MNSRE   Admin. Support
Magalie Pradel             Language Program Assistant           MNSRE   Admin. Support
John-Keith Rennie          Sr. Social Scientist                 MSRE    Sociology
Maria Sarraf               Environmental Economist              MNSRE   Env. Economist
Khanthan Shankar           Sr. Operational Specialist           MNSRE   Task Team leader
Konrad Van Ritter          Peer Reviewer                          -     Inst. Specialist
Peter Whitford             Consultant                             -     Environment
Mahtab Zolghardi           Consultant                             -     Procurement
Supervision/ICR
Sherif Kamel F. Arif       Consultant                           MNSSD Environment
Adel Bichara               Consultant                           MNSSD Operation (ICR)
Robert Bou Jaoude          Sr Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM Fin. Management
Marie A. F. How Yew Kin    Language Program Assistant           MNSSD Admin. Support
Maya El-Azzazi             Program Assistant                    MNSSD Admin. Support
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi      Procurement Specialist               MNAPR Procurement
Maged Mahmoud Hamed        Sr Environmental Spec.               MNSSD Environment
Georges R. Khoury-Haddad   Consultant                           MNAPR Procurement
Knut Opsal                 Sr Social Scientist                  MNSSD Sociology
Magalie Pradel             Language Program Assistant           MNSSD Admin. Support
Indra G. Raja              Program Assistant                    MNSSD Admin. Support
Alaa Sarhan                Sr. Environment Specialist           MNSSD Task Team Leader
Maria Sarraf               Sr Environmental Econ.               SASDI Task Team Leader
Velayutham Vijayaverl      Senior Procurement Specialist        MNAPR Procurement




                                          37
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                      18                       134.05
  FY03                                      20                       143.39
  FY04                                       0                         0.00
  FY05                                       0                         0.00
  FY06                                       0                         0.00
  FY07                                       0                         0.00
  FY08                                       0                         0.00
                          Total:            38                       277.44
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                       0                         0.00
  FY03                                       2                         8.20
  FY04                                      21                        84.96
  FY05                                      20                        97.24
  FY06                                      16                        82.76
  FY07                                      17                        91.01
  FY08                                       6                        30.03
  FY09                                      21                       139.46
  FY10                                       2                         6.74

                                         105                         540.40
                          Total:




                                       38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable.




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                   40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Borrower's ICR was received on July 6, 2009. An excerpt of the Borrower's ICR is
provided herewith.

Epilogue

Undertaking of the EMSP project by the DOE of I. R. Iran was a very positive and
constructive approach to build partnership with leading international agencies and
lending institutions and to appreciate and take advantage of the opportunity raised for
knowledge and best experience transfer in the field of environmental management and
sustainable development for the vulnerable resources such as air, water and soil in major
cities and habitable environments.

Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (MFEA), as the co-signer of the loan for DOE
and focal point of Government of Iran (GOI), deserves the credit for undertaking the
initiative of obtaining and managing the WB loans, including the first and the smallest
loan awarded to DOE.

DOE as a major governmental agency has a USD 200 million budget turnover annually.
So, for a 5 year duration of the EMSP project an amount almost equal to USD 1 billion
was managed by DOE administrators. In other words, managing about USD 4 million
per annum would not have made much difference in the scope of the activities of DOE.
Receiving a USD 20 million loan was a gesture of good will of GOI to show its value of
the environment and to exhibit the openness for international cooperation. DOE, as a
responsible agency took upon itself to accept the loan and implement the activities
undersigned for. DOE believes in the fact the environment is the global wealth for all
and it is the responsibility of all to protect it from pollution and hazard, as is mandated in
the Article 50 of the Constitution of I. R. Iran, .... protection of the environment for the
current and future generations is a responsibility of all.
Despite eagerness to obtain and invest the loan on the environment, EMSP loan, though
the smallest, after implementation faced variety of implications and complexities
experienced by all other loan recipients combined in I. R. Iran. This might be primarily
because it was the first loan to be implemented and the experience gained was applied to
other loans to remove obstacles and hindering issues. If so, this, by itself, was an
achievement not noticed by many involved in the loan process. EMSP has achieved
many of its objectives in air section and public awareness raising and training and inter-
ministerial cooperation and partly so in water section. Reasons for achievements and
failures are explained further; I should emphasize issues raised here are not to point
fingers at specific authorities but to pinpoint the main issues, small or large, that slowed
down the project progress and derailed the honest and tireless efforts of PCT staff whom
exhausted their efforts and at no point let the frustration take over.




                                             41
   Problems and Challenges

   Although facing challenges was a daily routine for PCT and myself, many sorts of
   problems be faced PCT since the first day at the job in 2006, just about the MTR mission
   was to begin. Experience of my colleagues and I on the main problems and issues are
   categorized as follows:

1. Designing and Structure of the Project

           In this section 4 kinds of problems are identified as follows:
a. Disagreement on procurement guidelines of WB with those regulations of Iran on
   bidding and consultancy- This hindering issue was the main problem in neutralizing
   efforts of PCT for consultancy contracts and slowing down the purchase of goods. The
   GOI in July 2006, passed a resolution to resolve the issue and bring closer the guidelines
   of Iran and the WB , but applying this new guideline was not made mandatory ant it
   allowed the financial controller to choose (or not to choose ) to follow the WB guidelines.
   In the case of EMSP, the financial controller always decided to follow the local
   regulations over WB guidelines on procurement, perhaps rightly so, because of auditing
   issues and judicial implications for the person of the financial contoller. Financial
   controllers are independent agents of MFEA in governemtal agencies including DOE and
   it seems a unified approach, not only to demand but also to mandate and require the
   implementation of the July 2006 resolution, would have resolved the problem to a great
   extent.

b. Decision on proportional payments of contracts- Given the budget structure for
   governmental agencies including DOE, allocated funds are usually disbursed late due to
   late contractual agreement exchange between the agency and MPO. So, if the funds of
   loan were available in the special account in the local bank and the smaller proportions
   of the counteropart funds were not, then the contracts could not be paid for by the
   financial controller. In other words, lack of funds in one account kept the other part
   hostage. This proportionality became more problematic when allocated funds were
   available or disbursed late in the year as it occurred in 2007 and to some extent in 2008.
   I must add and emphasize, that in 2003, when funds of loan were available, there was no
   counterpart fund available to complete tasks; therefore, the actual duration of using funds
   from loan for EMSP was 4 years and not 5. This fact must have been taken into account
   in the design of the project and (1) had marked the starting date of the project when the
   counterpart funds were available or (2) provisions had been placed into the loan
   agreement that DOE must have committed enough of its resources to complete the tasks
   for the first year of the project and or (3) made the proportionality on the loan flexible
   and floating so, the manager could decide on the proportions how to pay for the
   commitments depending on his/her available funds.

c. Annual Counterpart funds and budgetting- Division of the project into 2 subsections
   of Air and Water in annual budget plan complicated the allocation of annual budget
   request and made it harder to discuss with experts in MPO for the budget. Fortunately,
   efforts of DOE officials paid off and the budget for the year 2008 was obtained globally



                                               42
   enabling the bugget office at DOE to allocate funds as needed, however, there needed to
   be more flexibility to re-allocate funds between consultancy commitments and purchase
   of goods.

d. Late payment of contracts- Late payment of contracts was common and contributed to
   many activities to slow down or remain incomplete, such as operations of all 44 air
   monitoring stations, or bilboards and soil atalases. This was due to complex review cycle
   in the financial department. In many instances, payment of instalments of contracts could
   not be completed because one activity of the contract had not been completed. For
   example, on air montoring stations, the training activity had not been performed by the
   consultant because all stations had not been installed at the designated deadline. This
   inability to keep up with the workplan or contract deadline, contributed to successive
   problems in payment of contracts (or vice versa, non-payment of contract instalments on
   due time caused delays in some instances) and consumed a lot of time of the PCT staff to
   re-new and or extend contracts and etc.

   It must be added there were instances that procurement officer would draft a contract
   with specific deadline, but when checking of requirements in DOE financial controller
   office took longer or demanded documents that was required under the local regulations
   and not the WB procurement guidelines, then payment of contract would become
   problematic and delay was unavoidable. This issue was resolved with financial controller
   recently, in such way that all checks on contracts was to be made and all requirements
   met before financing of the contract.

2. Poor insight and lack of oversight

   In designing the project, there were adequate indicators to identify and quantify success
   but, there were not enough indicators to detect problems and to offer alternatives. Few
   examples are provided as follows:
a. Designation of National Expert Committee (NEC) comprised of provincial DOE directors
   and representatives of line ministeries and NGOs and steering committes (SC) at the
   provincial level were not initiated in the project and apparently were not strongly
   followed through by the WB task teams.
b. Ownership- I could not find a record in which provincial DOE directors felt the
   ownership of the project; they always requested funds to be sent to the province so they
   could be in charge of spending it. Under the design of the project, this was almost
   impossible. However, the initial impression given to DOE directors at the project design
   phase, was that they were in charge of the whole operations, but in fact everything was
   being run from DOE headquarters at EMSP office under the directorship of Deputy for
   Human Environment. Given the nature of the project, it was necessary to be centralized
   in dealing with international agencies and the WB, but provincial directors never
   accepted this fact and remained resistant to the project until equipments were delivered
   and installed. Still the sense of ownership was never fully realized.
c. WB follow ups in person was always a truly driving force in advancing the project and
   removing hindering problems in many occasions. I must thank the task team officers
   and consultants that visited the project in few occasions and suggest that in future, such


                                               43
   visits to be promoted by the WB and even be planned into project more vigorousely in
   advance .
d. Administrative changes in authorities and limited authority of coordinating manager- In
   EMSP project, my authority as coordinating manager, unlike my predecessor, was very
   limited and it covered managing daily communications and administrative tasks and
   lobbying for every instance related to project advancement as well as monitoring and
   preparation of progress and financial reports and budget plans. Although, through
   conducting workshops, my predecessor and I had tried to provide insight to the project
   for DOE managers, efforts were futile for frequent administrative changes and
   replacement of key authorities in the project. Fortunately, the MTR review took place
   when the new administration was in place in DOE and it coincided with changes in the
   priorities of DOE leading to a second ammendment to the loan agreement. Although, this
   change in priorities was good by nature, its application took few precious months of the
   project as it was necessaryto be approved by the WB (which took few months) and to be
   declared to the GOI and DOE. Therefore,it is concluded that at the beginning of the
   project, providing broad insight to the project for all stakeholders was necessary and
   assurance of that must have be ascertained.

   Similarly, oversight through emails, direct communications and in person is a must that
   needs to be considered for proper progress of the project from WB as well as local
   authorities, particularly, MFEA, as co-signer of the loan had to establish a more effective
   and accountable body to control project progress. Input of MFEA through providing
   consultations and demanding progress reports on a periodic basis was appreciated greatly,
   but their intervention when the hindering problem concerned the financial controller,
   needed to be more aggressive and constructive.

3. Multi-layered decision making
   There were several layers of decision making in EMSP as follows:
A. Primary
b. MPO for allocating annual counterpart funds and also WB funds equivalant
c. MPO and MFEA for disbursing Funds
d. Budget office in DOE for budgetting and allocation of funds
e. Financial Office in DOE for disbursing of funds and reporting
f. Vice- Head of DOE for Human Environment as Project Director
g. Administrative Office for lojestics and daily needs
A. Secondary
h. Deputy for Education and Research for Daily internet and communication Services
i. DOE specialized offices such as air, water and soil departments
j. DOE provincial directors
k. PCT techincal team and Manager

   Coordination between and among above decision makers was a daily routine conducted
   by PCT staff. Efforts were futile in many occasions when sense of ownership did not
   prevail or authoritative officials changed frequently. In other instances, controlling
   project activities in the field became minimal when DOE included the cost of travel in the
   limited salaries of PCT and did not allow hiring of additional consultants for at the sight



                                               44
     control of the project; MPO also resisted hiring additional consultant as needed when
     PCT was trying to request counterpart funds in 2006 and 2007. This contributed to
     limited supervision from DOE central. This flaw was, however, removed when Director
     for Comprehensive Monitoring in DOE was charged with responsibility of controlling
     equipment operation in October 2008 but did not have financial resources yet to complete
     the massive burden placed upon his department.

4.  Administrative Bureacracy complicated with international circumstances beyond
   EMSP control
a. Bureacracy was a chronic and hindering problem; for exmple in case of LCs for the
   project, openning of LCs for the type of equipment purchased for EMSP, required 51
   steps to be performed and needed seeking approval of many governmental agencies. This
   was time consuming and such time requirement was never envisioned into the project
   design. The same principal applied to release of goods from custumes. Instances of
   delays have been indicated in periodic reports and emails both to DOE authorities and
   WB task team leaders. EMSP was unfortunate to have one of its LCs cancelled in one
   bank and to have had to open a new one in another bank due to international
   circumatances. This cost the project valuable time on openning LCs for air equipment
   for Karaj, Shiraz and Ahawaz and water monitoring equipment for Karoon and rivers in 3
   Northern Provinces. Such delays must be considered for postponing project closing
   date.
b. Demand from the WB for opening a EURO account was another case which took a
   longer than expected time due to DOE financial controller inquiry from the MFEA. This
   was facilitated with the intervention of MFEA and constant follow up of H. E. Vice -
   President and Head of DOE.
c. Bureacracy in WB in many instances caused undue delays. For example, announcement
   of 2nd ammendment took a long time, or adding a step for payments of invoices by
   obtaining approval codes for invoices over USD 10000 in advance.

5. Payments of Salaraies of PCT consultants
   Adequate gaurantees were not put in place in the EMSP project to satisfy smooth
   payments of salaries to PCT staff both in the amount and timing of payments from the
   beginnig. For the first 2 years, a university was hired as a surrogate consultant to pay the
   PCT staff. On the 3rd year, when I took the position of coordinating manager of EMPS
   project, there was no procurement consultant, there was a 2 half day finacial consultant
   every other week (that means half a day per week in average) from Mashhad, not handy
   when needed, a liaison officer that only worked in the afternoons and 2 part-time
   technical consultants. I took over the job and needed to hire services of PCT consultants
   for liaison, financial and procurement tasks. Hiring of consultants for education and
   NGO and project field control was terminated after only few months. Salary of PCT staff
   from 3rd year onward (2005-2009) was paid differently each year with lots of
   uncertainties. Despite this, the EMSP PCT staff worked wholeheartedly, but the power
   of PCT manager was limited and no authority had been established beyond the EMSP
   office.




                                                45
   Major issues in this regard are as follows:
a. There are not adequately trained consultants on the WB procurement and financial
   guidelines and conducting workshops, though useful for updating, are not sufficient for
   appropriately trained and well qualified experts on WB guidelines.It is suggested that
   programmed education and training through WB enteties be provided to successful
   applicants in the form of scholarships or opportunies at the start of each project.
   Furthermore, publishing WB documents in Local language may also prove beneficial.
b. Method of payments of salaries or consultant fees must be resolved without hassle at the
   beginning. Issues of amount of salary and method of payment (from kind of contract and
   the method of payment from WB fund, counterpart fund and or combined) all must be
   cleared from the beginnig leaving room for adjustments for annual inflation. Expenses
   for travelling and insurance must be addressed at the time of signing of contracts. Late
   payment of PCT staff salary was a major breach of trust between parties limiting
   managers ability to function properly.

   B: Lessons Learned

1. Transparency and Accountability- Although this issue has been resolved for the WB,
   financial controlling is the bottleneck of the project. Removing the ambiguities on
   financial steps and working through them from start of a contract (bidding) to final
   payment provides a hands on experience to design the project more efficient. Involving
   the financial controller in the project design phase is a must to be considered
   seriously in future project design. The same is suggested hiring consulting services
   of former managers and experts who have worked on projects funded by WB.
2. MFEA should play a more active role in resolving issues related to financial controllers
   and devise means of universal approach to interpretation of guidelines rather than
   allowing each controller to do as he/she pleases.
3. DOE should have been more persistent in its approach to EMSP project and should have
   conveyed the ownership issue more forcefully and demanded accountability for
   shortcomings, particularly from provincial departments and financial department.
4. WB visits and missions must be encouraged and be planned into the workplan.
5. Ownership issue must be addresed more openly and be resolved locally among all
   stakeholders at the inception phase of the project.
6. WB and the Borrower should make sure that multi- layered decision making set up would
   not be problematic and work through the decision making process so, a hands on
   experience is gained; otherwise, project deadline must become more flexible for
   providing additional time before closing the loan or decision of project director be
   determinant.
7. Assurance on payment of salaries to PCT consultants must be ascertained both on the
   amount of payment with due increases for inflation and also for type of contract and
   method of payment.
8. It is strongly suggested that petty cash be granted to project manager for daily
   administrative expenses. So much delays could have been prvented in EMSP if only a
   limited petty cash were available or frequent request of manager was met properly for the
   petty cash. This could be provided through preferably the borrower and if not possible,
   then through WB. Current WB guidelines does not allow this.



                                              46
9. Project administration and hiring of PCT staff as per occasion must be realized by project
    directors, MPO and finacial controller.
10. Multi-layered decision making should be tested before implementation of the project.
11. Interconnecting WB loan funds with those of countepart funds for each contract must be
    resolved in advance. Any knd of proportionality and interconnection that makes on time
    payments problematiic must be discouraged and be replaced with better alternatives.
12. The financial cycle for payment of contracts funded from WB loan must be defined in
    the PAD and must be simplified to facilitate the process.




                                               47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None received.




                                    48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

 1.   Project Appraisal Document, February 26, 2003
 2.   Loan Agreement, May 13, 2003
 3.   Aide-Memoires
 4.   Implementation Status Reports - April 2003 through December 2008
 5.   Mid Term Review, December 2006
 6.   Project Audit Reports
 7.   PCT Progress Reports
 8.   Minutes of teleconferences between TTL and Project Coordinator, 2007




                                        49
