Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2196-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR THE
VIISOARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
December 29, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
lo Official Rate
Lei  4.97     =     US$1.00
Leu  1.00           US$0.20
2.  Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00     =     US$1.00
Leu  1.00     =     US$0.08
Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 20.00     =     US$1.00
Leu  1.00     =     US$0.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI         -  Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
COFACE       -  Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le
Commerce Exterieur
ECGD         - Export Credit Guarantee Department
HERMES       -  Hermes Kreditversicherings-Aktiengesellschaft
ICA          -  Intercooperative Association
NWC          -  National Water Council
POMAGRIK4EX  -  Romanian Foreign Trade Company for Agriculture.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
VIISOARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:          Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries:      State enterprises and Cooperative complexes
Loan Amount:        US$40.5 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 7.9 per-
cent per annum.
Project             The project consists of construction of irrigation,
Description:       drainage and other facilities to increase and stabilize
agricultural production on an area of about 115,340 ha,
and to increase labor productivity. It includes:
(a)  two floating pumping stations, one with a
capacity of 69.5 m3/sec and the other of
5.3 m3/sec and four fixed pumping stations;
(b)  a system of concrete-lined main and distribu-
tion canals;
(c)  about 46 fixed pumping stations and about 180
semi-mobile pumping stations to supply water
to buried pipe distribution networks;
(d)  portable furrow and sprinkler irrigation equip-
ment, operation and maintenance equipment, farm
tractors and other farm machinery;
(e)  surface drainage networks to serve about 77,540
ha, tile drainage networks to serve about 5,000
ha, construction of 8 new and remodelling of 5
existing drainage pumping stations;
(f)  about 467 km of 20 kv power lines and trans-
former substations;
(g)  river training works to protect about 2,000
ha from floods, soil erosion control works on
10,800 ha, land leveling of about 30,350 ha,
deep plowing of about 63,400 ha and deep ripping
of about 2,160 ha; and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(h) construction of about 50 groundwater monitoring
wells and facilities for operation and main-
tenance staff.
Cost Estimate:                                                         Foreign
Estimated Cost                 as %
Item                            Local       Foreign       Total        of Total
--------(US$ million)----------
Irrigation Works                 62.4         22.9         85.3          27
Drainage Works                    8.7          2.1          10.8         19
Miscellaneous Works              10.0          2.0          12.0         17
Land Compensation                 2.1          -             2.1          -
Equipment                        10.8          5.5          16.3         33
Engineering and
Administration                  9.5          0.5         10.0           5
Base Cost                     103.5         33.0        136.5          24
Physical Contingencies            6.9          2.2           9.1         24
Price Contingencies               2.6          5.3          7.9          68
Total Project Cost            113.0         40.5         153.5         26
Financing Plan:                                US$ million
Local       Foreign        Total
State Budget                83.0          -           83.0
Bank for Agriculture
and Food Industry         21.0          -           21.0
Cooperatives                 9.0          -            9.0
IBRD                          -         40.5          40.5
Total                    113.0        40.5         153.5
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY                1979      1980      1981      1982       1983
--------------- (US$ million) --------------
Annual:                10.0      20.0       7.0        3.0       0.5
Cumulative:            10.0      30.0      37.0      40.0       40.5
Economic Rate
of Return:         14 percent.
Appraisal Report:   No. 1719-RO of December 21, 1977
EMENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA,
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA,
FOR THE VIISOARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, with the guarantee
of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$40.5 million,
to help finance an irrigation project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic memorandum for Romania (818a-RO) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on December 29, 1975, and an agricultural sector
survey (953a-RO) was circulated on November 15, 1976. A basic economic mission
visited Romania in October/November 1976 and its report will be circulated to
the Executive Directors in the near future. The findings of this mission are
incorporated in this report. Country social and economic data are given in
Annex I.
3.        Since the founding in 1947 of the People's Republic of Romania,
which in 1965 was reconstituted as the Socialist Republic of Romania, economic
management has been organized along socialist principles which have included
state and cooperative ownership of almost all productive resources, and the
absence of private enterprise. Economic activity is directed by means of
obligatory development planning coordinated by the central authorities.
Productive enterprises operate within the framework of the development plan
which defines the scope of their activity, the outlines of their production
and investment goals and their targets for operating efficiency. The plan is
elaborated within a five-year time frame, each year having a separate Annual
Plan. The country began its latest Five-Year Plan in January, 1976.
4.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. En-
terprises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which
is controlled through a system of physical production and financial targets.
Production enterprises generally are not authorized to engage directly in
foreign trade and rely on specialized foreign trade enterprises for this
purpose. In agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the pre-
dominant units of production.



-2-
5.         Economic development is of paramount concern to the Romanian Gov-
ernment. Rapid industrialization is a major objective with priority being
given to heavy industry including steel, engineering products and chemicals.
To achieve their growth objectives, the Romanian authorities have made consid-
erable efforts to mobilize domestic resources for development and to maintain
a high rate of capital formation. In the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan, planned and
actual investment rates of around 30 percent of GNP were the norm. As a
consequence, consumption has been restrained, and the development of the
consumer goods industry has been less strongly emphasized than that of heavy
industry. In 1976, heavy industry (led by engineering and metal working,
chemicals and ferrous metallurgy) accounted for about 62 percent of industrial
production.
6.        As a result of this strategy, a marked change has been achieved in
the structure of Romania's economy. Rapid industrial growth, which over the
last decade has averaged more than 13 percent per annum, has expanded the
share of the labor force employed in industry (including power and construc-
tion) from about 14 percent in 1950 to approximately 40 percent in 1976.
During the same period, the share of labor force engaged in agriculture has
declined from 74 percent to around 36 percent; and while agricultural output
almost tripled, its share in GDP (1963 prices) amounted to only 12 percent
in 1976.
7.         Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, more than half
of the population (about 53 percent in 1977) still live in rural areas and
agriculture remains a key sector of the economy. Apart from supplying food,
industrial inputs and the residual labor increment for industrial growth
(which requires an increase in agricultural productivity), the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. These earnings, which are largely used to buy imported inputs for in-
dustry, have often been jeopardized as a result of unstable production growth
in agriculture. The maintenance of the industrial development program, there-
fore, is dependent to a certain extent on the performance of the agricultural
sector.
8.         Romania's population growth is around one percent per annum.     Thus,
the impact of rapid economic growth on per capita incomes has been only mar-
ginally diluted by the population increase. In the last decade, GNP growth
has averaged nine percent per annum, implying a growth of about eight percent
per annum of per capita GNP. It is estimated that GNP per capita in 1976
was US$1,450 based upon official national income information and using the
World Bank Atlas methodology.
9.         The~ organization of production in both the urban sector and in agri-
culture is such that all labor is employed and there is no open unemployment.
There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus, mainly in agriculture. Income
distribution is also relatively equal. In 1976, average monthly wages were
1,964 lei (about US$100 equivalent) up eight percent over the previous year.
Data on 1975 wages (latest available) show that about 87 percent of all
monthly wages were within the range of 1,300-2,500 lei; four percent were
under 1,300 lei and about nine percent were above 2,500 lei. Prices for
essential consumer goods and services such as basic foodstuffs, rents and



- 3 -
urban transport are relatively low and most social services, notably education
and health care, are provided without charge.     Standards of living, while
still modest, have been increasing because of the rapid growth of national
income. Romania also pursues an active regional policy which has sought to
bring a balanced development of both human and natural resources to all parts
of the country.
10.       The official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1 is used only for
accounting purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per
US$1, having been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974.
Beginning in July 1973, a trading rate of lei 20 per US$1 has been used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representa-
tive of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange. The rate of lei 20
per US$1 has also been used to convert national income statistics from lei to
dollars. Consequently, this rate has been used as the base rate for calcula-
tion in the appraisal.
Recent Developments
11.       Since the National Party Conference of 1967, which set the stage
for major qualitative advances in Romania's economic and social development,
there have been important new emphases in Romania's economic management.
Measures were taken to improve the institutional basis of planning (e.g. by
creating centrals to assist in plan administration), to increase the effi-
ciency of economic management and to improve the quality of products in
industry. In agriculture efforts were made to raise productivity and
stabilize growth through irrigation, mechanization and the expanded use
of chemical fertilizers. To promote the growth of foreign trade and
technical-economic cooperation the Government has concluded trade and
cooperation agreements with a wide range of countries. In this context,
Romania has also made positive efforts to expand its multilateral external
relations and to pursue full cooperation with international agencies, in-
cluding UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, FAO, UNIDO, GATT and more recently, the IMF
and the Bank.
12.       Measures aimed at continued improvement of the management system
have included reorganizations (involving a reduction from 217 to 112 in number)
of industrial centrals and a concentration within-the centrals of all plan-
ning, control and research functions. The pursuit of purely physical goals in
production and trade, while still an important element in the system, is being
supplemented by much greater emphasis on production and investment efficiency,
product quality, pricing and foreign competitiveness. To eliminate wasteful
investment and production expenditures, a Superior Court of Financial Control
has been established, among other things, to oversee a new system of financial
control. A campaign to increase efficiency in the utilization of existing
capacities and to effect significant economies in the consumption of raw
materials and intermediate goods is being implemented throughout the economy.
Targets have been established to reduce by 30 percent the previously antic-
ipated construction and installation costs of industrial projects between
1976-80. Substantial savings have also been prescribed for most other
industrial inputs during 1976-80.



- 4 -
13.       Foreign trade has expanded rapidly in recent years both in volume
and in regional diversity. There has also been a tendency to move away from
trade on a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral payments,
within the framework of the general cooperation agreements signed with almost
all of the country's trading partners. These cover not only the volume of
trade but also arrangements for cooperation in production, technical assis-
tance and related matters in the field of international economic relations.
During the 1971-75 plan period, total trade grew at approximately 18 percent
per annum in current prices. The 1976-80 plan envisaged an acceleration in
the rate of growth of trade, projecting that the volume of trade between 1976
and 1980 would be twice that obtained between 1971 and 1975. The rapid growth
continued in 1976, although it did not quite keep pace with the plan target
which required an increase of 13 percent per annum in real terms. In 1976,
the total value of trade in current prices rose by 14.5 percent, with exports
increasing by 14.9 percent to US$6.14 billion and imports by 14.1 percent to
US$6.10 billion. As in past years, trade with the convertible currency area,
which was 55 percent of the total in 1976, grew more rapidly than with the
non-convertible area, largely because of a 20 percent increase in exports.
As a result of these developments, Romania had, for the first time since the
mid-1960s, a surplus (of US$72 million) on its convertible currency trade, and
for the first time since 1973 a surplus on overall trade (of $43 million). As
planned by the government, imports from the non-convertible currency area were
larger than exports to that area in 1976. Because of the deficit on the
invisibles account, Romania had a deficit on current account both in overall
terms and with the convertible currency area. However, these were consider-
ably smaller, $20 million and $60 million respectively, than in previous years.
14.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies remains essentially unfavorable. Raw
materials and agricultural commodities, both of which are subject to unstable
price and production conditions, comprise about 60 percent of total exports
to these countries. At the same time imports from these countries are largely
of machines and equipment and other manufactures. Because of the present low
level of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises
from shortfalls in agriculture (paragraph 7 above), tends to place the import
program in immediate jeopardy.
15.       In 1976, the momentum of economic growth continued, with most major
targets of the 1976 Annual Plan being met. National income rose by 10.5 per-
cent, gross industrial production increased by about 11.5 percent, and gross
agricultural production was a record, exceeding the flood affected 1975 level
by 17.2 percent. These achievements were realized despite a lower than
planned investment growth rate (8.2 rather than 19.4 percent). The volume of
trade increased less than plan targets, but an overall trade surplus of US$43
million was attained because of measures to economize on imports. The 1977
plan and budget provided for continued high rates of growth. National income
was expected to rise by 11.3 percent and gross industrial production by 10.5
percent. The Plan provided a range of 1.9-13.6 percent growth for the gross
farm output. This wide range was provided because of the uncertain impact
climatic conditions might have on production. Investments in the national
economy were expected to increase by 16.7 percent and total foreign trade
volume by 15.5 percent.



- 5 -
16.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country. The earthquake, the effects
of which were most severe in the vicinity of Bucharest, killed 1,570 people,
injured 11,300 and caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion of
the total damage was to buildings, of which US$1 billion was in housing. Of
the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was in inventories and produc-
tion. The earthquake also had a substantial effect on the country's balance
of payments' prospects. Government projections suggest that the impact on
the balance of payments will be approximately US$630 million during 1977 and
1978, broken down into US$350 million in lost exports (as a result of loss of
orders, production losses and diversion of production to the domestic economy),
US$250 million in additional imports, chiefly machinery and equipment required
for the increase and advancing of capacity in the construction sector, and
US$30 million in lost tourist receipts.
17.       Immediately after the earthquake, the Government began clearance and
reconstruction work and was remarkably successful in overcoming its immediate
effects. Debris was cleared, housing was found for the vast majority of those
left homeless, chiefly by giving them priority for newly completed housing and
most enterprises were returned within a few weeks to full production. To deal
with the substantial longer-term effects of the earthquake, the Government
instituted a comprehensive reconstruction program, which, it is planned, will
permit both the impact of the earthquake to be eliminated by 1980 and the tar-
gets of the 1976-80 Plan to be met. The resources for the additional tasks
during this plan period are expected to be secured through greater efforts of
the population (notably compulsory and unpaid work on one Sunday each month
for the reconstruction effort, voluntary work and financial contributions),
utilization of the army for reconstruction work and from savings of production
expenditures obtained from improvements in efficiency of production which are
to be greater than originally anticipated (para. 12). The reconstruction
effort will impose additional tasks upon the construction sector which, in
recent years, has been operating very close to its capacity; as a result, the
reconstruction program is designed to relieve the constraints of the sector
by advancing the commissioning of new capacity in the construction sector and
those industrial branches which supply building materials, construction equip-
ment, and equipment for the building materials industry. In July 1977, it was
announced that the improvements in economic efficiency were expected to be
sufficient to permit not only those increases in investment, in particular
in housing, but also improvements in living standards to compensate the
population for its additional efforts. In December 1977, the RCP announced
that revised targets throughout the economy were to be introduced to permit
the fulfillment of the plan ahead of schedule.
External Assistance
18.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by bor-
rowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism.
Gross inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-term loans
were US$946 million in 1976, consisting mostly of financial and suppliers'



- 6 -
credits with relatively short repayment periods. This gross inflow repre-
sented a net inflow of some US$464 million after accounting for the country's
repayment obligations. In the first six months of 1977 the gross medium and
long-term capital inflow on convertible account was US$501 million, consisting
largely of suppliers credits. The net inflow for the same period was US$151
million.
19.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term pri-
vate capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under which
foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises, prefer-
ably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of December 1977,
eight joint venture agreements had been signed and two more announced. In
contrast with the earlier ventures, which were of small scale involving total
direct foreign investments of about US$10 to 15 million, the latest ventures
involve far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977 with
Citroen, involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and will
lead to a total capital inflow of approximately US$250 million. Even larger
inflows are expected as a result of an agreement with Kuwait for the construc-
tion of a petrochemical complex costing US$1.25 billion. Romania also receives
medium-term trade credits from U.S. Eximbank and trades under ECGD, COFACE,
and HERMES credit guarantees with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal
Republic of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first East
European recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving US$80 million for
the expansion of the port of Constanta. In 1975-Romania succeeded in securing
a US$100 million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation
agreement and also a US$420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms.
During 1977, it negotiated two Eurodollar loans totalling US$125 million, and
a banking consortium is now petting together a US$53 million loan to finance
Romania's purchase of a 49 percent share of a coal mine in the United States.
In addition, Romania has access to non-convertible currency investment credits
from the International Investment Bank, Moscow.
20.       As it stands Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of such
long-term development finance, though Romania is making efforts to improve its
access to financial markets. The Bank's presence on a significant scale would
have a positive influence in this regard and serve to build outside confidence
in the country, thereby enhancing in the long-term its independent access to
the world's financial markets.
Prospects
21.       The 1976-80 Five-Year Plan reflects Romania's continued strategy
of rapid growth. Investment rates of some 30 percent of GNP are to be main-
tained, and the major thrust is in industry. The plan targets are impressive.
National income and gross industrial output are expected to grow at 10-11
percent per annum, with more rapid growth in heavy industry than in consumer
goods. Continued emphasis is to be placed on foreign trade which is planned
to double in real terms, with the aim of securing the technology needed for
the modernization and diversification of Romanian industry and the raw mate-
rials required by industry. Greater emphasis than in the 1971-75 Plan is to



be given to developing the infrastructure in agriculture, particularly irriga-
tion and drainage, while the plans for fertilizer production envisage an
increase in supply sufficient to double the 1974 application rates by 1980.
22.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.    Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. In order for Romania to attain its growth
objectives, however, it will have to rely on a major expansion of exports
of manufactured goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an
increasing dependence on imported raw materials and fuel.
23.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient use
of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The in-
creasing diversity and complexity of Romania's economic structure require
continuing improvements in the efficiency of economic planning and coordina-
tion and further refinements in economic management. To keep up with these
changes and requirements, large programs of education and manpower training
have been mounted, investments in scientific and technological research have
been emphasized, and efforts are being made to strengthen technical coopera-
tion with industrialized countries and international organizations.
Creditworthiness
24.       As of June 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external debt
amounted to US$3,266 million. Most of these debts (US$3,174 million) were
denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
Germany, France, UK and Italy. While the total debt does not appear excessive
in relation to the volume and growth of external trade, average maturities are
relatively short and convertible debt service payments are estimated to be in
the order of US$680 million a year during 1976-77. The convertible debt ser-
vice ratio in 1976 was 17 percent and is expected to be 19 percent for 1977.
25.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of
a development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million in 1976. The preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the
European Communities in June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such
exports as is the granting of most favored nation status by the U.S. Since
the early 1970s, the Government has restricted the use of short-term credit
from western suppliers in an effort to improve the structure of the country's
external debt. In view of the earthquake's impact upon the balance of pay-
ments, the Government indicated that there would be a temporary reversal of



- 8 -
this trend and short-term debt increased again in the first six months of
1977. Assuming a continuation of present export and debt management policies,
we estimate that the debt service ratio will be somewhat above 20 percent
during the remainder of the 1976-80 plan period, after which it will decline,
reaching about 15 percent in 1985. The country's present outward-looking
posture, the success of both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies,
and its potential for continued development, all support the judgment that
Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank lending.
26.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With regard to the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S.
claims began in September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon
agreements reached in May 1975. Settlement of British claims proved more
difficult, but a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank has
also been informed recently of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans
from the pre-war period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests
such as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War.
The eleventh and most recent meeting to discuss these claims was held in
Bucharest in October 1976. The Romanian and Swedish authorities have also
dealt with this matter in April 1977 in the context of more general dis-
cussions of bilateral trade, and further discussions are planned at a date
to be established through diplomatic channels.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
27.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's fifteenth to Romania and
would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to US$737.8 million. Disburse-
ments under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this situa-
tion improved considerably during 1976 and 1977. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of November 30, 1977.
28.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. Bank lending also aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to introduce new industrial technologies,
to improve the quality of products and production efficiency, to reduce pro-
duction costs and to provide for necessary electric power development. Market
aspects and marketing, especially for export goods, are also emphasized.
Special attention is given to agriculture which is heavily dependent upon
favorable weather and where productivity levels are still comparatively low.
29.       A number of further loans are under consideration for irrigation and
drainage, tire production, earthquake recovery, cattle development, poultry
production, horticulture, chemical, and seamless pipes projects. Further



- 9 -
power projects will be considered in context of a sector investment study to
be reviewed shortly with the Government. The Government has also requested
that the Bank consider lending for a major navigation canal linking the Danube
and Black Sea.
30.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for Romanian officials in Belgrade in October 1973 and in Bucharest in January/
February 1975, November/December 1975, January/February 1976, October/November
1976 and November/December 1977. Additional courses, including one in agri-
cultural project appraisal, are planned.
31.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However,
they will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible
currency finance, and are seen,by the Romanians as aiding their efforts to
obtain convertible currency financing from other sources.    The disbursed
IBRD debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 12 percent
of Romania's total projected convertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's
share in Romania's debt service payments in 1980 would be about 3 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Agriculture
32.       Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing both convertible foreign exchange earnings and industrial raw
materials which contribute to progress in other sectors, especially industry.
In 1976, agriculture accounted for 18 percent of national income and 36 per-
cent of the labor force (compared with 74 percent in 1950). About 14.9 mil-
lion hectares, or almost two-thirds of the land area, are used for agricul-
ture. Of this area, 65 percent is arable, 30 percent is under pastures and
the remaining 5 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. About 8.5 mil-
lion hectares of all agricultural land is in Wallachia, the region composed
of the southern plains of the Danube valley. Approximately 64 percent of all
arable land is used for grain production (mainly maize and wheat), while
industrial crops (mainly sunflower and sugar beet) are the next most impor-
tant. Vegetables are also produced for domestic consumption and export, pre-
dominantly by private farmers and individual members of cooperatives, but
also often in large-scale commercial greenhouses operated by State farms and
cooperatives. Livestock accounts for a relatively high 43 percent of agricul-
tural production.
33.       Investment in agriculture accounted for 12.7 percent of actual total
investment in the 1966-70 plan period and 14.1 percent in the 1971-75 plan
period. The proportion of investment for agriculture in the 1976-80 plan
period is expected to be 11.6 percent of the total. However, total investment
in agriculture during the 1976-80 plan period is expected to be 116 billion



- 10 -
lei (US$5.8 billion), about 50 percent more than during the 1971-75 plan
period. In addition to investment, the Government has also taken other mea-
sures, including institutional reforms, price incentives, and production
targets and delivery schedules to stimulate agricultural production. Growth
achieved in agricultural production has been slower than in other sectors and
has been characterized by year-to-year variations. The major problems of
Romanian agriculture are the instability of its output and low productivity.
A major program of irrigation investment, including farm mechanization and
supported by three earlier Bank loans, has been undertaken to help address
both of these problems. In addition, a number of other specific measures have
been taken to increase agricultural productivity including increases in the
supply and utilization of fertilizers, investments in livestock production and
the promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and market-
ing facilities.
The Need for Irrigation Infrastructure
34.       Instability in agricultural production results from vulnerability to
erratic weather conditions and the lack of infrastructure to mitigate their
impact. Excessive precipitation and flooding during planting and harvest
seasons, and inadequate rainfall during summer growing seasons, have resulted
in year to year fluctuations in national output of the order of 10 to 20 per-
cent. Fluctuations of production in particular regions can be even greater.
Only production of vegetables has increased steadily, reflecting the rela-
tively more controlled conditions under which they are produced. The Govern-
ment is well aware of this problem and has placed high priority within the
agricultural sector on solving it. Forty percent of agricultural investment
in the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan was for land reclamation, irrigation and drain-
age; the comparable figure for the 1976-80 Five-Year Plan is about 20 percent,
reflecting a relative decline in infrastructure investment and increasing
emphasis on investments to make productive use of irrigation facilities
already established. Since 1965, total irrigated land has been increased from
about 0.2 million hectares to 1.9 million hectares in 1977, and, the relative
reduction in the share of the agricultural budget allocated for irrigation
notwithstanding, another 700,000 hectares are expected to be brought under
irrigation during the last three years of the 1976-80 plan period. This con-
tinued emphasis on irrigation and drainage reflects the high priority which
is being given to reducing vulnerability to weather and to stabilizing produc-
tion in agriculture. Irrigation works to date have concentrated on large
schemes using waters pumped from the Danube. Three such projects, similar
to that for which financing is proposed in this report, have already been
financed by the Bank; execution of these projects, which also include drain-
age and farm mechanization components, is proceeding satisfactorily (see Annex
II), and the proposed project would continue Bank support in this subsector.
Agricultural Productivity
35.       While some productivity gains have been made in recent years, agri-
cultural productivity per worker remains less than one-third of that of indus-
try. In addition to improving its irrigation infrastructure, Romania is also
taking measures to improve productivity through upgrading the quality of farm



mechanization, increases in the supply and utilization of fertilizers, and the
promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and marketing
outlets for increased farm production. Steps are also being taken to reduce
inequality between State farms and cooperatives in access to farm inputs.
State farms, which own 30 percent and cultivate 14 percent of agricultural
land, received about 42 percent of on-farm investment in the 1971-75 Plan
period. Productivity on State farms is correspondingly higher than that on
cooperatives, but the Government is now moving toward elimination of the
disparities between the two types of farm organization in order to stimulate
general improvement in agricultural productivity. Eighty percent of the land
to be irrigated under the project is owned by cooperatives.
Sector Organization
36.       State agricultural units and cooperatives account for the major
portion of agricultural production; individual farmers play a much less sig-
nificant role, except in the production of a few selected commodities. The
current sector organization is primarily a result of collectivization and
increased government participation from 1949 to 1962, when small-scale,
peasant-oriented agriculture was replaced by large, state-owned or state-
controlled production units. The dominant form of state-owned agricultural
unit is the state enterprise. There are 392 such state farms averaging about
5,300 hectares and about 650 workers each. These large scale, capital inten-
sive farms have been considered a pilot sector in Romania and, as such have
been favored in terms of land allocation, fertilizer distribution and invest-
ments in irrigation and mechanization. About 2.1 million hectares of agricul-
tural land are cultivated by these farms, which also own substantial grazing
and pasture lands. Workers on the farms are employed on salaries which are
fixed by law but vary according to skill levels. Eighty percent of salaries
is paid at least monthly; the remainder is paid at the end of the crop season
provided planned targets have been met. The state farms are generally well
managed by directors (usually agricultural engineers) who are appointed by
the Director General for State Farms of the Ministry of Agriculture and are
responsible to workers' councils. The Ministry of Agriculture determines
the production plans for individual State farms; it also has a role in deter-
mining the use of their net income, a portion of which is remitted to the
State treasury.
37.       In 1976 there were 4,400 agricultural production cooperatives with
about 3.4 million member families and cultivating about 9.0 million hectares.
Workers in cooperatives are entitled to a minimum salary, which is lower than
the salaries of their counterparts on state farms by about 20 percent. Sala-
ries of cooperators may be supplemented with the cooperator's shares of profits
in excess of plan targets. More than one member of a family frequently works
(on a full- or part-time basis) in the cooperative, and some family members
are employed outside of the cooperatives. Cooperators are also allowed to
farm about 0.15 hectares each in and around their villages for their personal
use, and they are allowed to own livestock. Production on personal plots is
always intensive, and produce is either self-consumed or sold to consumption
cooperatives to supplement other income of the cooperators. About 8,000
hectares of such plots farmed by about 35,600 cooperative members would be



- 12 -
irrigated under the project. A cooperative is managed by a General Assembly
of cooperators and its elected President; it reports to the District Director
General for Agriculture, the local representative of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. Some cooperatives have begun to pool their resources for large-scale
investments in agroindustries and livestock production. These intercoopera-
tive associations (ICA) are operated by state employees paid from ICA revenues.
Part of the net income from ICA sales is retained for further ICA development;
the balance is divided among member cooperatives in proportion to their con-
tribution to shares in the ICA.
38.       Individual farmers number only about 150,000 families and own about
10 percent of total agricultural land. Their lands are often located in moun-
tainous regions, and include 19 percent of pasture lands and 21 percent of
orchards. Private farmers own 16 percent of all cattle, 14 percent of sheep,
and 6 percent of pigs. The individual farming subsector has not received
strong government support but is significant in production of potatoes (16 per-
cent of production), meat (13 percent of production), milk (20 percent of pro-
duction), eggs (14 percent of production) and wool (12 percent of production).
39.       At the national level, the State institution in the agricultural sec-
tor is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. It plays a major role
in preparing the Five-Year Plan for the sector and is the supervisory institu-
tion for plan implementation. In each district, the Ministry is represented
by a general directorate, which is responsible for all agricultural activity
in the district including both cooperatives and State farms. Marketing is
organized nationally under 13 centrals accountable to the Ministry and respon-
sible for processing and marketing specified commodities. Each central
obtains produce at the district level and allocates it among domestic retail,
processing, storage and export channels. A foreign trade company is respon-
sible for the exports of each central.
The Borrower
40.       The Borrower for the proposed loan would be the Bank for Agriculture
and Food Industry (BAFI), which is the Government's specialized agency for
financing projects in agriculture, irrigation and food processing. BAFI was
established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all investment
funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector. Financing
in agriculture had previously been done by a department of the National Bank
of Romania. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal, execution
and supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff located in
Bucharest, in 39 county (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-branches through-
out the country. One of BAFI's more important functions is that of fiscal
agent administering for the account of the national budget, all government
investments in State farms and enterprises. BAFI also receives interest-free
funds from the State budget for investment lending to cooperatives (and in
some cases State Farms) and repays the Government as it receives repayments
of the sub-loans. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures for all
investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural invest-
ments for more than Lei 10,000,000 (US$500,000) are reviewed and approved by
the Ministry of Agriculture and those greater than Lei 70,000,000 (US$3.5
million) must be approved by the Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides



- 13 -
short-term credit to, and maintains settlement accounts for all cooperative
and state agricultural enterprises; it also acts as fiscal agent for the
Government for collection of state revenues from these enterprises. As the
Government's channel for investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary
source of funds is the State Budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore in-
cludes a provision (Section 2.02) that the Guarantor shall provide all neces-
sary funds for the implementation and operation of the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project is part of Romania's 1976-80 Plan for bringing an addi-
tional 1.1 million hectares under irrigation and was proposed for Bank finan-
cing in February 1976. A feasibility study for the project was submitted to
the Bank in January 1977 and further data was provided in March 1977. The
project was appraised in May 1977 and negotiations were held in Washington in
November 1977. The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President
of BAFI, and included representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry and BAFI.
Project Description
42.       The objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize agricul-
tural production on an area of about 115,340 hectares in the judet (county)
of Teleorman about 100 kilometers west of Bucharest (see map) and to increase
labor productivity. This would be accomplished through construction of an
irrigation and drainage system and related facilities. About 91,800 hectares
of the project would be cultivated by cooperatives, including about 8,000 hec-
tares cultivated by individual members of the cooperatives, and about 23,540
hectares would be cultivated by State farms. Irrigation water for the major
portion of the project would be taken from the Danube, either by diversion or
by floating pumping stations, depending upon the level of river flow. The
water would then be lifted by fixed pumping stations and distributed through
a system of lined canals. About 2,930 hectares of the project area would
receive water to be diverted from the Olt River and stored behind the Cringeni
Dam on the Calmatui River, after the dam is raised under a separate project.
These waters would be released to the Calmatui River channel and would be
pumped from the channel to the project area. The raising of the Cringeni Dam
is not included in the project, and in order to ensure adequate water supplies
to the 2,930 hectares in the Calmatui River valley, the Loan Agreement (Sec-
tion 4.01(c)) and related requirements of the Guarantee Agreement (Section
2.03) provide a schedule for proceeding with the project and for an increase
in the storage capacity of the dam to assure inter alia adequate supplies of
irrigation water to the 2,930 hectares. Water would be distributed to the
entire project area through a system of concrete-lined canals to pressure
pumping stations, which would supply water to distribution networks consisting
of buried pipes for sprinkler and furrow irrigation. Also included in the
project would be portable on-farm sprinkler and furrow irrigation equipment,
surface drainage works to serve 77,540 hectares, river training works to
protect about 2,000 hectares from flood, tile drainage for 5,000 hectares,
erosion control works for 10,800 hectares, land leveling of 30,350 hectares,



- 14 -
power lines serving the irrigation system, operation and maintenance equipment,
and farm machinery. The Appraisal Report (No. 1719-RO, dated December 21,
1977) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Execution and Operation
43.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, through its various
departments and trusts, and the National Water Council (NWC) would be respon-
sible for planning, construction and supervision of the project. Design and
construction of river training works would be carried out by NWC. Planning
and design of all other project works would be carried out by the Institute
for Land Reclamation Studies and Design, and construction by the Construction
Trust for Land Reclamation Works. Both organizations are part of the Minis-
try's Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction. The
irrigation and drainage works would be operated and maintained by the Minis-
try's Central for operation of land reclamation works. BAFI would serve as
financing agency for all project works under the arrangements noted in para-
graph 39 above. All agencies are competent to carry out the proposed works
satisfactorily.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The estimated total cost of the project, net of taxes, is US$153.5
million with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$40.5 million. The
cost estimates are based on unit rates of work that are prevalent in Romania
under the system of regulated prices of materials and wages. The cost of
equipment and materials which are likely to be procured from foreign suppliers,
has been estimated at the international prices expected to be prevailing at
the end of 1977. Because detailed engineering has already been carried out,
physical contingencies have been provided at 7.5 percent for irrigation and
dralnage works and at 5 percent for other minor items. Price contingencies
on foreign exchange cost are based on annual increases of 7.5 percent for 1978
and 1979, and of 7 percent thereafter. Due to a near zero rate of inflation
under the Romanian system of administered prices, annual price contingencies
on local costs are one percent.
45.       The proposed Bank loan of US$40.5 million would finance the foreign
cost of the project. The remaining project costs would be financed by the
Government budget (US$83.0 million), BAFI loans to cooperatives (US$21.0 mil-
lion) and cooperatives (US$9.0 million).
46.       The proposed loan would be made to the Bank for Agriculture and
Food Industry (BAFI) with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania,
and would be for a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at an
interest rate of 7.9 percent per annum. It is the normal practice in Romania
for the State to invest virtually all funds in agricultural infrastructure
projects through BAFI without formal lending agreements and to recover invest-
ment costs from project beneficiaries through a variety of financing mechanisms
including the incomes of state farms, taxes, pricing mechanisms for traded
commodities, and payments by cooperatives for mechanization services. For
this reason, BAFI would act as a channel for, but would not actually relend,
the proceeds of the Bank loan, and funds would be made available to BAFI from



- 15 -
the state budget for repayment of the Bank loan. With regard to on-farm irri-
gation for cooperatives, however, it is Romanian practice for BAFI to finance
such investments from its own resources with agricultural credit subloans to
the cooperatives at a rate of interest of 3 percent per annum; recovery of
funds for these components of the project would be made through subloan repay-
ment. As in all earlier projects, this may be considered a real rate of
interest because of the near-zero rate of inflation in Romania. Since BAFI
receives most of its funding from the government budget at very low rates, its
overall borrowing cost is below one percent which allows it to operate profit-
ably despite the negative spread on the Bank loan.
Audit
47.       BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures
and its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors
appointed by the Ministry of Finance and to an annual audit by inspectors
from the Court of Superior Control which reports directly to the Council
of Ministers and the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of
its transactions are satisfactory and BAFI's audited operating and financing
results would be sent to the Bank not later than five months after the end
of BAFI's fiscal year (Sections 6.01(c) and (e) of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement
48.       Although Romanian laws provide for international competitive bidding
and for joint ventures involving foreign and domestic enterprises, in practice
all irrigation works are constructed by Romanian Construction Trusts, which
are experienced and familiar with local conditions, methods and regulations.
This practice is acceptable because Romanian construction costs based upon
regulated wages and prices of materials are likely to be less than those which
might be bid by international contractors. Equipment and materials equivalent
in cost to the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project, US$40.5 million
including contingencies, would be procured following international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. (Annex 7, Table 1 of the
Appraisal Report lists items to be so procured.) Romanian manufacturers would
be allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower, but the application of the preference is not expected
to significantly affect the outcome of bidding. It is expected that foreign
suppliers would win contracts for most construction equipment (motor graders,
motor scrapers, dozers, tile laying machines and cranes) estimated to cost
about US$8.0 million. Other items to be procured through international com-
petitive bidding (estimated to cost US$32.5 million) are available domestic-
ally and, based on experience with previous Bank-financed projects, it is
expected that Romanian manufacturers would be successful in bidding for these
items. The remaining equipment and materials (estimated to cost US$34.4 mil-
lion) would be procured under Romanian procedures and would not be eligible
for disbursement under the proposed Bank loan.
Disbursements
49.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for (i) 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures for imported equipment, spare parts and materials procured



- 16 -
through international competitive bidding, and (ii) 100 percent of the ex-
factory prices of equipment, spare parts and materials manufactured locally
and procured through international competitive bidding.
International Water Rights
50.       There is no international agreement among the Danube river riparian
states for the use of its water for irrigation but a convention exists for
development of the river for mutual benefits, and for protection of navigation
and water quality. The International Water Commission for the Danube, of which
Romania is a member, is mainly concerned with schemes which may interfere with
navigation and water quality. The maximum diversion for the project, in July,
would amount to 1.4 percent of the minimum river flow in that month. The
Government has confirmed that diversions for the project would not reduce the
Danube flow below the minimum to sustain international navigation as agreed
with the International Water Commission. There is, therefore, no reason to
expect that the project would raise issues on the use of Danube waters, and
no agreement of other riparians would be required,
Environment and Health
51.       The project area is free of endemic diseases such as malaria and
bilharzia. The project would not adversely affect the environment or public
health. Construction of irrigation works, with variable water flows in the
canals, and a piped distribution network would not promote mosquito breeding
and spread of malaria. Fertilizer and salt draining from the project area are
not expected to damage the quality of the Danube's waters.
Benefits and Risks
52.       The project would contribute to Romania's overall effort to increase
and stabilize agricultural production through investment in irrigation and re-
lated farm development. The cost of irrigation works is estimated at US$1,390
per hectare irrigated. Without the project, production in the project area
under rainfed agriculture could be expected to fluctuate from year to year
with an annual average gross production of about US$24.9 million. The project
is expected to increase the gross value of output to a relatively stable
US$53.5 million annually (an increase of 115 percent). This would be achieved
through (i) a 13 percent increase in cropping intensity made possible by irri-
gation, and (ii) increases in the yields of various crops ranging from 48 to
110 percent. The major crops to be produced in the project area are maize,
wheat, alfalfa, soybean, sugar beet and sunflower. The benefits of stabiliz-
ing output have not been quantified but are considerable. The project would
also reduce underemployment in the project area and would double labor produc-
tivity. About 35,600 members of cooperatives and 3,100 employees of state
farms would participate in the project. This group would not share directly
in the benefits of the project, which accrue to the state, as their incomes
are regulated to correspond with those of workers with similar skills else-
where in the economy. Benefits to the project participants are indirect
in the sense that they flow back to the population at large over a period of
time through increases in public services and general compensation packages.
It is expected that direct and indirect recovery of project costs (including



- 17 -
inter alia water charges, profits of state farms credited to the national
budget, contributions of state farms to a depreciation fund kept by BAFI,
net returns to the government from investments in the development fund for
cooperatives, repayment of loans to cooperatives for on-farm development,
profits made by government trading companies buying output at relatively low
domestic prices and exporting them at much higher world market prices, and
general linkage benefits to the economy as a result of increased and stable
output of the project) would enable recovery of all project investments. The
economic rate of return of the project is estimated at about 14 percent.
53.       The risk of not attaining project benefits is low.   Designs have
been prepared in detail. The Government has satisfactory plans to supply
the farms with the necessary complementary inputs and supporting agricultural
services. Farm workers are receptive to new technology and would have ade-
quate incentives to participate in the project. Anticipated crop yields are
comparable to or lower than the average yields obtained from other irrigated
areas in the region. The marketing system is well organized. Attainment of
the project's objectives is therefore reasonably assured.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for Agricul-
ture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, the report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
55.       A special condition of effectiveness of the loan is the approval
by the Council of Ministers of the technical and economic indicators of the
project (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement). This approval of detailed
project parameters is normal under Romanian planning procedures and will
provide the legal basis for financing and implementation of the project.
The special conditions on completion of the Calmatui River dam (Section
4.01(c) of the Loan Agreement and Section 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement)
have been noted in paragraph 42.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 29, 1977



TABLE SA                                             ANhRXi
RCANIA REP. OF     - SOClAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                          Page 1 of 3 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
_______________--RANIA REP. OF                                                 REFERENCE COUNTRIES 11970)
TOTAL      237.5                                   MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     149.0                     1960     1970   ESTIMATE         YUGOSLAVIA    ITALY   GERMANY FED. UEP. OF***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     ..    550.0** 1450.0**            830.0*    1910.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)         18.4     20.3      21.4/a            20.4       53.7      61.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     77.0     85.0      90.0/a            80.0      178.0      240.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     126.0    136.0     144.07a           139.0      266.0     439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)       23.9     19.0      19.7              21.0       18.6       17.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)        10.9      8.9       9.3               9.1        9.7       11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)     75.7      49.4      34.7              55.5       29.6      23.8
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)    65.9      67.7      69.1              67.7       71.9      70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.2      1.3       1.3               1,3        1.3        1.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                               1.2      1.0       1.0               1.0        0.8        1.0
URBAN                               3.8      3.4       2.2               4.6        0.8       4.1
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)        32.0     40.8      43.0              38.7       51.5       82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                    27.9 /a   25.9      25.2              28.3       24.4      23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                    64.97;    65.5      65.2              64.3       85.2      63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                   792 8.6            9.6               7.4       10.4       13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.5      0.5       0.5               0.6        0.5       0.$
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.7/b     0.7/a     0.7/b              ..        0.9/a     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)      9600.0    9900.0   10200.0/a                    19600.0   28500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)      66.0      49.0      36o Ta                       19.0       8.9
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)          ..        ..        .-               ..        3.1        0.7
INCOME DISTRI8UTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O eY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                               15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                               41.4
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..       ..        ..               6.6
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..       ..        ..              16.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10X OF OWNERS           ..       ..        *-              15.1 Ia
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS         ..       ..        ..4.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            740.0    680.0     820.0            1010.0      S50.0     580.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       300.0    200.0     180.0             410.0      470.0/b   350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         180.0 Ic  140.0/b  120.0/C           170.0       90.0      90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY QF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)      105.0    116.0     118.0/d           124.0      126.0      121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)           ai.0      92.0      90.87H            92.0      100.0      88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.0     28.0        *               29.0       42.0       56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4          4.9/a     2.4        ..               2.8        1.0       0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO            98.0     113.0    108.0              64.0      119.0      129.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL
SECONDARY SCHOOL                   24.0     44.0      49.0              45.0       60.0      68.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)          12.0      14.0      14.0              12.6       IO      1t.0
VOCAIIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                  S4.0      58.0      61.1              72.0       26.0      48.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                ..       ..      g8.0/             65.0       97.0      99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               ..      1.3/C      *-                .-        .,        0.7/
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      *-     88..0/c,d    -                *-         *-       0.3/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                ..      49.0/C      ..                ..        ..      100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                   ..     27.0/C      ..                ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)      109.0    t52.0     148.0             165.0      218.0      319.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          ..                                 35.0      190.0      220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)        414.0    1615.0   2411 .0           1288.0     2262.0     4129.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)             2.1      2.6       3.0               4.3        5.3       17.7
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AhmaIWE
page 2 of 3 pages
Un1evo otherwise    oted, data for 1960 refer to any yea     between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Moat aen"t Estinate between
1973 and 1975.
A    GNP per caPita data ra- based on the World Bank Atlas netbodolagy (1974-76 beasts).
00  Nt coparable to those for other Centrally Planned leonotes.          Derived by using the bank Atlas methodology, by adjusting official Ronanian
National Accounts data a!nd convrting thus into Un dollars At the affactiva exchange rats for foreign trdad trans.eetione. which approninetes
Lci 20 Par US dellt
000 The Federal Repoblic nf Gerneny has been selected as an objective country because Jr is an industrializedl European Country with najor trade
ties with Ronania.
ROMiANIA                  1960     /A  1962;     /b  Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 And over to total labor bores;           /C   Hospitala only,
eacludes satitaria and nater'nity hones.
1970     IA  Raetio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor farce;         _1 Hiospitala only, excludes senitaris
and naternity homes:      /c   1966;    Ldinsaids only.
MOST gECENST ESTIPiATE:     Is  1976;     lb  Ratio of population under 15 ad 65 And over to total labor for ce;           Li  Hospitals
only, exclu-des eaniteris sod neternity bases;        Li  1969-71 average;      It   1974, official
eatinate La 100 percent.
YUGCOSLAVIA               1970     /a   Agriculture land held by social sector "ranbinate";         /b  Agriculture land held by Private snaI-holders "10
hectares maxcimumc";    Ic   Tncluding nidwives, assistant nidwives, assistant nurnes end nursing suxt laries.
ITALLY                    1970     Ia  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;           /. Hospital personnel.
G10RMAff PED. REP. OP     1970     /a  Total, urban and rural;       lb  Inside only.
R17, December 20, 1977
ngnsrrtg     OF sotu. D5DCATOR
Lead Area (thou koZ)                                                                      pelaln50         uring Perso   - Population divIded by asukar Of practicing
Ttl- Total surface ares conprisisig Loand area ad Inland .aters.                         m     n   ia    sgrduate nurses, tcrained` or   cried       nus,d
Agric. - Mast recent eatdntt of agricultural Area used temporarily or panes                 sallies1 PerOelsol With trainin    Or eaperienee.
neatly for crops. pacures, market 6 kitchen gardena or to lits felIne.                  PQ:usaletian oar heesital bed - Population divided by n,nbr of hospital beds
avilbl  in Publ ic end priwte general And spa.oilissd hospital And
GN{P oar  soPtta (00S  - IMP per capita astimates at correct nArkat prices,                 rehabilitation ranters; aeciosas nursing hs sAnd gotst,lisbanta far
eaI.leltod by sans ce-rsten cachead As WarId seek Atlas (1973-75 basis);                  custodial and Preventive care.
L9b0, 1970 And 1973 data.                                                               Per -astr  saeyo)aoi            tc    suena        - Computed iron anry
squivalet:  of neJ.Yt fond suppiesaalbei csty par ca -pita per day;
fopttatien and vital aosi:available supplies Comprise damstic prodwetta, tIports less exports, and
PecUlation (aid-year million)    As of Jo1y first:   if oat available, warersg              change. is stock; net aupplias ealude anmalel fsad, ends, qusAt1tins used
of rae end-year estimates: 15,60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                     in food processing and losses in distribution; equir-metan    wrar satioated
by PAO based on phyiological needs for nroArl activity sod health ronsid-
Peculation deceit, - par osur. kms - Mid-year population Par square hilomtar                rATgU en-trOten,tal temperature, body weightst    A age and ase dintributiesi of
(100 htu,teras) of total Area.                                                            PoPulation, end aloniag lOXtfor, waste at hosseesold level.
Peculation doenaity -  ar soosc  ko Of sari-. tend - Computed as shove for                Pe    aisapl        faoanfr            e   a) - Protein content of par Capita
agriclturel lar    onytaCc                                                                     a.ptplyoffndpe7ay       -    uplyo     fond ia defiosad as habos, raquire-
naest for~ all ecoAtries established by USDA Eccnoit ResaKrch tervice
fatal statistics                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provide faor a aisimul ellmossea Of 60 gras of total prorte1 par day, and
truda birth race Per thousnd,     Iaveag  - Annual live births Par thausnd af               20 gras of animal And pulse proteIn, ef Which 10 greas should be animal1
nid-year poplto; Ira-year Arithmestic avarages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   proteIn; these standards are lssr than those of 75 greas of total protein
sad five-year Average ending do 1975 for -ast recant %testias.                            end 23 gras of aninal protein as en sverags for the werld, Proposed by F6O
Credo death rats Per td-cd       aeee-Annual deaths per thousand of aid-year                in tha Third world rood forwe.
popuL.tatln; tao-year ath    ti  avrgsending in 1960 and 1970 end five-                 par ceit    prti     ea,(o       nmt And Putss - Protele supply of feed
,yea  ovrgeadigin173fr             mast raceoat estimate.                                  deIeBieaial            a   ussI       rame Par day.
nftnoclLty rate f/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under ens year of age            Death rata i/thou), ase, I-A - Annul deaths Par thousoand in age grop 1-h
per thousand live births.                                                                 yArs, to children in this age grnup; suggestad as As indicator od
Life oaoetancvy At birth fyra) - Averegs osubar of yeArs of Ilfe remaining at               malnutrition.
birth, ususilly firs-year averages nding in 1960, 1970 And 1975 for devetop-
Lag cocotrisa.                                                                          Rdsration
Cr060 -racoduction rate - Average eabar of lIve daughters a woan will bear                RAdl"ed enrILlUSt ra.tio    - oiarvschoo     - Barolleast of elI .ages  Papr-
in bar stornol repr-doctile period if ah. experience   present age-scific                 renatgs of ptnarty scholag        po lation; icludes children aged 6-It years
fertility rates; unmlly fiv-yea     avr.age   ending in 1960, 1970 And 1975               but adjastad for different langtha of primary education; fnc ceutrias with
,for develping nosre.universal educetion, enralinAnt may exceed 100X since Saw puplsg ars halo
Popultion  crarlh rate (%) - tota!l - CnsPAOnd annlual growth rates of Iai-year            or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 And 1970-75.                                            Adjute    erolmat ra.tio -O seodr       school - CamptadAas sAbve ; seoodary
poplaton  roeh  rte  t)- urban - Conputed like growth rate of totaledcto                        rquesalatfuryrsfapovd                      riryituto;
population; different dofinitiama of urban    area nay effect ceoparability of            Provides general, vocational. or tearher tra1inin  Instructions for pupils
da~ta anong countries,                                                                     of 12 to 17 peers Of aga; Correapondence courses ers gesarlly secluded.
-rbe   pulation (I of total) - Ratio Of urhar to total Ppoulation; differsot           Yer    fahai.        rvddfis             eodlvl)-TtlYear              of
daiition  Of urban Area  mas  Affect 0e"asprbility of dat.a sag   camtries.                                                                     -to,ag  t  e~n  eel  eaia  nsrtin ybeprilya
coPsplael7 seluded.
se  tuture  (percet) - Children (0-14 years) , workingags. (15.6.4 pees) *           VsC`c.nlarlsn           I fscnay            oatoa      ncrca        Aci
and etired (65 Yeers And over) so perocntages af aid-year population.                     tachtr, industrial or other progress Which *gents independently or As
Age dependeet   ratio - Ratio of Ppoplation under 15 sad 65 and over to those                dapartwents of secondary inatitutions .
of ages 15 through 64.                                            A~~~~~~~~~dult liteary  rats Mi -Literate adults (able to read And writ.) as Par-
tconniodeosdoay raio  R.laia of papolation under 15 sad 65 end over to               teatage of total adult populetton aged 15 y-ar. end over.
the labor force in Ago groap of i5-bi yeses.
Paily   olancing - accootora  (ronclatlva. thos) - Cunulatia nmbashe  of sccaptore          ou fLg5fg
of birth-control devices under sospices of national family plasoLog program             Persun   os     ros  rban) - Average numober of persona Ptr rams in oc.up'ted
siecs =ncprion.                                                                            rOoeeri    l dwellings in urban areas; dwellings minds non-permanentr
PIlII   Planing -users C% of married esonen) - per.categas ef married woman of               structures and unorenpied parts,
child-bearing aga (15-41 yerar) Who use bitth-concrol devices to all naurriad            LruldA       ossg esithour eised water Cl - occupied conwentional dWetlinga
woman in sas Age group.                                                                   inubnedrural eras         Without Imaids or outsIde Piped wetar fa.tlities
fnlem  aac                                                                                  cces   t ecticity CCft of all dwsllinxs) - Ceevootiens     dwellings with
Total labor forte (thousand) - gnononically active parson,. including sewed                  electricity In living qacrtars es Percent of cetal dwetllgs Ia orkn and
forosa end   nAmplayed but secluding b.soesaves, studets, etc..; definitions              coel .ares.
is~ anoe   countries are nt conpV.arbIA.                                                Rursl dwellings   cosseted ta electricity   it.) - Cosputed As shon  for .ro 1
Labor (ores in sgricuiture   (1) -    CgICoItursti.lbor force fin faming, forascry,          dwellings only.
h,untingand fishing) As prentage of totat lsbor force.
nnpyd  1of labr  forte) - fnonpioyad are usulY defined asproaWho                  Ccnabnrplsti
Are Able end Wilting to ta ke a )b, out ofa      b on 5ie      day  randot              Radio receivers (per thou eOP) - All typos Of racaie-rs for radiohre,st
of a jet, sad seeking work for A specified   Intinin  Period not e-acadiog one            to general public par thousand of population. soeludes onilcesad r-cLvers
week, may not be conparbhs between countries due to differsat deftoition,                  in countries And inV years whes registration of radio sacs   sA. In effect;
of ucusPlayed and soure. of data, e.g., empleyeant office statistics, satpla               dsts for recsnt years esy nor he reparable ticc    set countries sbolishsd
surveys, - cepul.ary unaploynat insurance,                                                  ICensin..
Passenger cars (Mee thou eo) - Pas-ASOgr cars cQaprice eacor crar seating
Incas dIstribution - Percentage of Private Income (boths ins .ash ad kind)                  Iesa tban eighit persona; eaciud.a ambulanes, besesto act military
received by richest 5%, ri.heot 20%, poorest 20%, And pooreat 407. of hoass-               nahicl.s.
holds.                                                     tlactriotty  (kwh/yr ear rae) ~~~~~~~~~- Aneusi cnassptios of leduatrial. caseercial.
public and private ectricity In bilosae bone       per- .sPits. gans-ally
Distribution of   land ownership - Pernantsgea of land cursd by wealthiest lo,%              bsaad on preduCtian data, Without allWenca for Iloses    Se grids but allo--
sad pooes.t lit of land oen.rs.                                                            Lag f or imports and aepote of alatririty
lieenret(haveperca) - Per capita Annual coasuprion in kiloggams
Health and Nutrition                                                                         estimatedfn    domes9titc prodoction plu,. net imparts of newprint
Ponslation pr! physician - Population divided by osuher of practicing
physician qualified fine A nadicsl school At university Iev-L.



UNL4 I
Peg. 3 of 3 page.
ECONOMIC INDICAMTRS
CROSS NATIOKAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROlT   -- (2 *nd in ..n.ttnt pri..)
USS H1.l             % of GNP                                1961-65          1966-70          1971-75              1976
GNP at Merket Prict.          .              27600                   100                                    9.0 1/           7.7 1/           11 3 1/           10.5 1!
Grost Fixed Domtic Inteetosnt                 7 450                   27                                   11 3             11.2              11 2               S 2
E.ponrt of Good.                              6 138                   22                                    9 0 2/          10 9 }/           23 6 2/           14 9 2/
lport. of Goode                               6,095                  22                                    10.7 2/          12.7 2/           22.3 2/           14.1 2/
LOOR CIt rA 1976                                         GOVERNKIENT FINANCE
Mln                                                                             " General Covrnmeot
A8lnrtlt.r.                   3.6        36                                                              (I.i bill6 )
Iondtry                       4.1        40                                                                 1976                  1976
Servic.&                     .L.1.      ..
Tot-l                     10.2       100                                  Total Rane.pt.               254.5                   46.1
Total Eependit.r.             250.1                   45.3
Total Surplw                    4.4                    0.8
RETAIL PRICES           1971         1972          1973          1974          1975              1976
(1966 - 100)          101 6         101.6         102.4         103.7         103.9            104 4
BALANCE OF PAYHENTS                                                                                                                   PMRAJADIW b   7MS    1976
(Mlt  USS)                      1971           1972       1973        1974       1975       1976
US$ 850
E.pOrta of good.                  2,102           2,884       3,667      4,858      5,341     6,138
IWont. of good.                   2,102           2,910       3,424      5,049      5,342     6,095                                    Capital gooda                 1,578          26
Coo-.t   good.                1.005           16
Tr.d. bal1no-                         0              -26      +243        -191         -I       +43                                    Fodn     goff.                  596          Is
Not  ervIn..                        -23             -34        -107       -168       -134        -63                                   Int.r.edi.te good.              508           S
Ra   -terial.                 2,450           0
Balonc. on good.                                                                                                                         IndtrlIal                   2,061          34
.nd e.  L...e                  -23             -60        +136       -359       -135        -20                                     AgtOi.ltort l                 389           6
Ntt MLT Capital                      +5              +24        +83       +643       +437      +t44                                    Totel                         6,13il
Diabortent.                    350             516         589      1,055        817       742
A-ortiatio-                    345             492         506        412        380       502
Reald-l B.o1.0.                    +18             +36        -219       -284       -302       -220
EYTERNAL OEBT, Jen. 30, 1977
OffifAal Rate:                         T   iorat Rat.
Total M 6 LT                  3_246
USS 1.00 - Loi 4.97                    US$ 1.00 - L.  12 00                                                                           of h .h nov-rttbl.
Lao 1 00 - USS 0.20                    Le. 1.00 - US5   0.08                                                                           currenboo                   3,174
Officlal TradInd  Rate                                                                                                                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976
USS 1.00 - eiA 20
La. 1.00 - USS   0.05                                                                                                                Convertibl, cnrrencie. only    17-4
1/  Natlonal lnco    (SlI)                                                                                                                   Country Progreo Oepart     t I
2/ Cornoot Pri.es                                                                                                                      En-p., Middl. lot and North Afri29 R197
D-ober 29, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of November 30, 1977)
Amount in $ Millions
Loan                                                               Less Cancellations
Number       Year   Borrower        Purpose      Bank     IDA          Undisbursed
Ln. 1020-RO  1974   Investment      Fertilizer   60.0      -              22.6
Bank
Ln. 1027-RO  1975   Investment      Special      70.0      -              39-9
Bank           Steel
Ln. 1028-RO  1975   Investment      Thermal      60.0      -               9.8
Bank           Power
Ln. 1082-RO  1975   BAFI            Irrigation   70.0      -              11.5
Ln. 1083-RO  1975   BAFI            Agricultural 30.0      -              12.3
Credit
Ln. 1169-RO  1976   BAFI            Flood        40.0      -               3.4
Recovery
Ln. 1170-RO  1976   Investment      Flood        20.0      -               0.0
Bank           Recovery
Ln. 1242-RO  1976   Investment      Hydropower   50.0      -              40.1
Bank
Ln. 1247-RO  1976   BAFI            Irrigation   60.0      -              58.4
Ln. 1368-RO  1977   BAFI            Irrigation   60.0      -              60.0
Ln. 1436-RO  1977   Investment      Bearings     38.0      -              38.0
Bank
Ln. 1447-RO 1977    Investment      Glass Fiber  18.3      -              15.5
Bank
Ln. 1448-RO  1977   Investment      Polyester    50.0      -              48.5
Bank
Ln. 1479-RO  1978   BAFI            Agricultu-   71.0      -              71.0
ral Credit
Total                       697.3                    431.0
Of which has been repaid      -        -              -
Total now outstanding       697.3
Amount sold          18.6     -
Of which repaid       0.0    18.6
Total now held              678.7
by Bank 2/
Total undisbursed           431.0                    431.0
1/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2/ Excluding exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln No. 1020     Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 million Loan of
June 28, 1974; Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
By agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, the project site
was changed from Tecuci to Bacau which is more advantageous from the point
of view of controlling effluents. The project, though slightly behind sched-
ule, is proceeding satisfactorily, and the ammonia production facilities are
expected to be commissioned before the end of 1977.
Ln No. 1027     Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed several months, primarily be-
cause of the complexity of two large bid packages and because of the Romanians'
lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines. Progress on procurement has been closely monitored
by several Bank supervision missions, and US$50,000 allocated for procurement
consultants but not used has been cancelled. The contracts for the two steel
mills under the loan have been signed and construction is progressing in
accordance with contracted schedules. Total project costs are expected to be
about US$20 million less than appraisal estimates, but this is not expected
to affect disbursement of the loan which is now fully committed for two main
supply contracts.
Ln No. 1028     Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Effective Date: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are likely
to result in a five month delay in commissioning of the first generating unit.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082     Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Effective Date: May 5, 1975; C1osiuR
Date:  December 31. 1978.
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 75 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is 93 percent
completed. About half of the project area was irrigated during 1977. All
remaining works are expected to be completed by December 1977. Savings of
about US$25-30 million below original project cost estimates are expected,
and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected to be cancelled if not
required for the project before the closing date.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Ln No. 1083     Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, will be carried out under bulk
contracts being tendered internationally for 1978 requirements by the Romanians.
About 80 percent of loan funds are committed.
Ln No. 1169     Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are ahead
of schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids have been received for the flood early warning system equipment and the
Romanians are expected to submit a bid evaluation report to the Bank in the
near future.
Ln No. 1170     Flood Recovery Project (Industry, Mining and Transport Com-
ponent); US$20 million Loan of November 12, 1975; Effective
Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date: September 1, 1977.
After a slow start due to difficulties encountered in Romania in
preparing and assembling documentation on procurement of imported industrial
machinery, disbursements have improved considerably since September 1976. The
closing date was extended from March 31 to September 1, 1977, and the loan has
now been fully disbursed.
Ln No. 1242     Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; $50 million of
April 28, 1976; Effective Date: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is according to plan. Civil works for the dam
and underground power station are well underway, and about 73 percent of the
loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247     Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; $60 million of April 28, 1976; Effective Date:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Bids for all contracts were received during March 1977, and the
Bank has received bid evaluation reports for several contracts and have
approved contracts valued at about US$30 million. Facilities for four dairy
farms are nearing completion, and contracts for purchase of about 4,600 im-
ported heifers (50 percent of total) valued at over US$3 million have been
awarded. Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works
has begun and progress on these facilities is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Ln. No. 1368     Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; $60 million of
March 2, 1977; Effective Date: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for
the Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and contracts for about
US$36 million have already been awarded. Construction of some project works
has begun.
Ln No. 1436      Brasov Bearings Project; $38 million of June 15, 1977;
Effective Date: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
This loan became effective on August 11, 1977. First bidding
documents were issued at the end of October.
Ln No. 1447      Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; $18.3 million of June 15, 1977;
Effective Date: August 11, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Main supply contracts
have been signed, and implementation is proceeding within planned schedule and
budget.
Ln No. 1448      Cimpulung Muscel Polyester Project; $50 million of June 15,
1977; Effectiveness Date: October 3, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on October 3, 1977. The main supply
contract has been signed, and execution of the project is proceeding satis-
factorily.
Ln No. 1479      Pig Production and Processing Project; $71 million of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 28, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective on September 28, 1977, and BAFI has begun
to make subloan commitments. Tender documents for three major contracts for
construction materials have been approved by the Bank.
EMENA
December 29, 1977



ANNEX III
ROMANIA
VIISOARA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first identified by the Bank:      April 1976
(b) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                               Unknown
(c)  Agency which prepared the Project:         Ministry of Agriculture
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider
the Project:                               January 1977
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:    May 3, 1977
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:        November 15, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             April 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Special conditions of the loan would be as follows:
(i) Approval by the Council of Ministers of the technical and
economic indicators of the project would be a condition
of loan effectiveness. This approval of detailed project
parameters is normal under Romanian planning procedures
and will provide the legal basis for financing and imple-
mentation of the project (para. 55).
(ii) Construction of the Cringeni Dam on the Calmatui River
would be formally approved by the Council of Ministers by
December 31, 1980, and the storage capacity of the dam
would be increased by December 31, 1982 in order that suf-
ficient water could be made available to the 2,930 hectare
Calmatui portion of the project (paras. 42 and 55).
EMENA
December 29, 1977



Rosorir e Vede\                                               Re    r     20        rm. o-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  RED 13020
A.   JULY 19i 7
U S S R
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA                                                         
VIISOARA IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                  I '               ''
/   RO0M1X N          I A
0.,                         . 9                 -_u
,  3    *\  1\                     .2                                                                         a -_          --=t 1t.  ROTRA *UH
4                                                                                                                 ,. 1! S4   >,r  ,/  . ,_ 
_ 2 --                                          _j .     I   rx .     ,  _  _  _ j X o I      *\0 -2                      A , s -
C:-U  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IL~~~~~~KLMTR
C                                                                                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.\b -
-___- Project Arec Boundory                              -    ,.
- - -   Irtigo-ie System Soundries-
,     Existing Irrigored Ae.c -.
Proiect Arno so be Irrigo-ed by Sprinkler       .    -
77      Project A ryo to be Irrigortd by Furrow...
./,'.  Soil Erosion Control Works voder Project
CANALS
cr0-2 D strihotion <  )i/%_ ~trg7> -+ 
.si-r.7 Con-ls to be Improved cnd EnIorged under Prolect                                                                                                      i
Puc    ru PUMPING STATONS
A L     MomA Pumpig St-Ions SPA
Ar,  Au Rep mpmg Stotions SRP
A       Ceorrol Pressure Pumping Sto-ions SPP
*       lndividxs-l Pressure Po-prrg Stolno,-
DRAINAGE                                                                           ~-
[jji 7  Aren to be Provided with Sunlace Drosnoge,                                                                                                           / ,  --
Areo to be Pro d.d with TIle Dn,..ue
Mom Surfoce Droins nod Ousln*s
DRAINAGE PUMPING STATIONS
tf    Eistir,N to be wmproed_-                                                                                                                    A   ,
y     Project                                                   =6gs., se E+/;4 n / z rnn eo /Pa
GA tIRallwON5 , <        AON  Cuorti
II  V linger                                                                                                                                                              I
- - -   oteneorionoL Bouondor,e                                                                                                                             "~B  U  L  G  A  R  I  A-
Ruio                    A



