                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                               April 3, 2013
                                                                  Report No.: AB7283

 Operation Name                      Solomon Islands Development Policy Operation-2
 Region                              EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
 Country                             Solomon Islands
 Sector                              Central government administration (90%);General industry
                                     and trade sector (10%)
 Operation ID                        P143242
 Lending Instrument                  Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                         SOLOMON ISLANDS GOVERNMENT
 Implementing Agency
 Date PID Prepared                   April 3, 2013
 Estimated Date of Appraisal
 Estimated Date of Board             July 16, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision           Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                     proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

1.Solomon Islands is a fragile, post-conflict small island state and the poorest in the Pacific
when measured in terms of GDP per capita. Most of the population continues to be
dispersed across rural areas of the archipelago, where they largely depend on subsistence
agriculture. This caps food poverty rates, but exposes the population to environmental
shocks. A low-level conflict between 1998 and 2003 brought the formal economy and many
state functions to a halt. A regional peacekeeping mission stopped the violence, and rapidly
restored order and basic state functions, particularly in finance. Since then the country has
subsequently enjoyed a fairly good security situation, but structural political instability has
continued, with a regular floor-crossings, votes of no confidence, and chronic uncertainty
among weak ruling coalitions.

Until very recently, Solomon Islands suffered from weak fiscal discipline, pro-cyclical
spending, while public service delivery from government and its state owned enterprises
(SOEs) was inadequate and inequitably distributed. The legacy of poor fiscal management
made it difficult for the government to manage the 2009 global economic crisis, leading to
large internal and external imbalances, the imposition of drastic spending reservations, and
accumulation of significant arrears.

In contrast, by early 2013, Solomon Islands had enjoyed 18 months of markedly more secure
macroeconomic footing relative to 2008-09, although economic growth was slowing and
some fiscal pressures were re-emerging. Since 2011 the government has built cash reserves to
over two months of expenditure (excluding externally financed projects), foreign exchange
reserves to over 7 months of import cover, and a credible reform program to address
structural weaknesses in budget preparation and execution. For the first time in recent
history, budgets have been fully funded and backed by analytical work and consultations with
civil society organizations and between the central finance agencies and implementing
ministries. The government has developed mechanisms to more transparently and
systematically grant tax exemptions. The management of procurement has been strengthened
and made consistent across ministries through the creation of a dedicated and centralized unit,
as well as improved regulations. An application for candidate status to the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative has been completed, an important step towards the future
development of mining in Solomon Islands. The government has adopted a new Chart of
Accounts to better track and analyze spending. Severe solvency issues in the key public
utilities have been resolved in a manner that is likely to be sustained over the longer term.
These and other ongoing reforms are expected to contribute substantially to the quality of
governance and improved delivery of public services.


       Proposed Objectives

The proposed grant is the second in a series of two development policy operations in support
of Solomon Islands’ transition from post-conflict recovery to sustainable development in the
context of its National Development Strategy (NDS). The proposed operation would support
the following three development objectives: i) improve public financial management; ii)
improve the financial management of key State Owned Enterprises; and iii) improve
extractive revenue transparency.

These development objectives link to the three high-level, over-arching goals of the 2011-
2020 NDS: i) to increase social and economic opportunities; ii) to secure sustainable growth,
particularly through facilitating private sector development; and iii) maintain stability and
peace. Special emphasis is placed on increasing the efficiency, effectiveness and
accountability of public service delivery. In turn, a joint government-development partner
group maintains an evolving program of key economic and financial reforms, which
development partners support through budget support. This proposed operation supports key
elements of that reform program.


       Preliminary Description

Severn prior actions have been identified and assessed by the team as completed for the
proposed operation, following five policy actions completed for DPG-1:
(1) Publish a summary of the consultations with civil society organizations that occurred in
preparing the 2012 budget and solicit similar consultations in the formation of the 2013
budget.
(2) Adopt a new chart of accounts to plan and track expenditures by natural account codes
across recurrent and development expenditure.
(3) To assess the full content of individual ministry spending proposals for the recurrent and
development budgets, adopt formal consultation mechanisms between central agencies and
line ministries as part of the budget formation process.
(4) Parliament has approved a Bill establishing a transparent and consistent process for
approving tax exemptions.
(5) Establish a dedicated procurement branch within the Treasury including dedicated units
for policy and training, tender support, and operational procurement.
(6) SIEA and SIWA, in collaboration with MOFT, agree on a mechanism for the reduction of
SIWA’s debts to SIEA.
(7) An application for candidate status to the EITI international secretariat is completed.
Structural political instability has not impeded progress towards policy reforms. The
macroeconomic framework implemented by the authorities has been adequate to provide an
acceptable level of price stability, maintain acceptable internal and external balances, reduce
the stock of debt, and build reserves to cushion shocks. This broad framework is expected to
be maintained in the coming years and is therefore adequate to support the proposed program.


       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

The measures supported by this proposed development policy grant are expected to have
significant positive direct and indirect impacts on poverty reduction. No adverse social or
poverty impacts are expected from the actions supported by the proposed grant.

The proposed operation will pursue improved coverage and quality of public services through
two channels: improvement in the quality of public services provided directly by government
ministries and the provision of water and electricity by SOEs. Strengthening the budget
formation process is expected to lead to a better alignment between the NDS and budgetary
allocations. Improving the quality of budget execution should help ensure that the better
aligned budget is well implemented and leakages to unproductive uses are reduced. These
changes should gradually facilitate the coverage and quality of public service delivery
throughout the Solomon Islands. The new consultative role created for citizens groups and
provincial leaders, combined with the new provisions for greater transparency, are expected
to be especially helpful in motivating better results. In the longer run, the actions proposed
for the mining sector will facilitate poverty reduction indirectly through the promotion of a
fiscal regime that clarifies revenue sharing obligations and creates more transparency in the
receipt and distribution of mining sector revenues.

Environment Aspects

The specific actions supported by the proposed programmatic series of development policy
operations are not likely to have significant positive or negative effects on the Solomon
Islands environment, forests or other natural resources.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
RECIPIENT                                                                             0
IDA Grant                                                                             2
                                                                      Total           2
        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Timothy J. Bulman
Title: Economist
Tel: 5787+105 / 675-7160-9860
Fax: +675 321 7730
Email: tbulman@worldbank.org
Location: Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Dalcy Tozaka-Ilala
Title: Director, Financial Economic Development Unit, Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Tel: +677 27413
Email: dtozaka-ilala@mof.gov.sb

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
