OFFIcIAL
DOCUMENTS
GRANT NUMBER H 882-SB
Financing Agreement
(Second Development Policy Financing)
between
SOLOMON ISLANDS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           .r  , 2013


﻿FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated +                , 2013, entered into between SOLOMON
ISLANDS ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
("Association") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and (b) the Recipient's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework.
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Lnless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one
million and four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,400,000 -
variously "Grant" and "Financing").
2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04. The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year.
2.05. The Payment Currency is Dollar.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end:
(a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
sitUation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient's
macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Treasury.


﻿-3-
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
P.O. Box 26
Honiara
Solomon Islands
Facsimile:
+677 - 27855
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:                Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423(MCI)           1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at Ho tA I r x       sr)   mor 13s-rit45, as of the day and
year first above written.
SOLOMON ISLANDS
By
Authorized Representative
Name: g     C     1
Title:      ie-MV4    '*skCL
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                D
Authorized Iepresentative
Name: FRA N2     R.     EEC- Rkas
Title: COUTA*Y    DIRFCrO'R,      -ACINF


﻿-4-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
A. Improve Public Financial Management
1. Broaden Community Engagement in the Budget Process
The Recipient has published a summary of the consultations with civil
society organizations that occurred in preparing its 2012 budget and has
carried out similar consultations in the formation of its 2013 budget, as
evidenced through: (i) the "Solomon Islands Budget 2013 - Budget Strategy
and Outlook - Budget Paper: Volume l" circulated by the Recipient's
Minister of Finance and Treasury, as published on the website:
http: //www.mof.gov.sb/GovernmentFinances/Budgets.aspx; (ii) the attendance
sheets for the 2013 budget consultation with civil society organizations,
churches and provincial governments held from May 2012 to June 2012 for
Honiara, and Malaita Provinces; and (iii) the "Report on 2013 Budget
Consultation with Provincial Government, Civil Society Organizations and
Churches - Better Responding to the Needs of all Solomon Islanders" dated
August 3, 2012.
2.     Strengthen the Planning and Tracking of Budget Expenditures
The Recipient has adopted a new chart of accounts to plan and track
expenditures by natural account codes across recurrent and development
expenditures, as evidenced through the "Chart of Accounts 2013 Natural
Account Codes Master List" dated October 29, 2012 distributed by the
Recipient's Ministry of Finance and Treasury to all Recipient's Ministries,
as per the Letter No 473/1/9/23 dated June 11, 2013 from the Recipient's
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury.
3.    Improve the Quality of Budget Formation and Execution
The Recipient has adopted formal consultation mechanisms between the
Recipient's Ministries as part of the budget formation process to assess the
full content of the Recipient's Ministries spending proposals for the
recurrent and development budgets, as evidenced through: (i) the
Recipient's "Extract for Action from Conclusion of the Cabinet" dated
June 18, 2012, endorsing the 2013 budget strategy and process; (ii) the


﻿-5-
Consultation Sheet for the 2013 Budget Process dated August 2012; and (iii)
the Recipient's Minister of Finance and Treasury Media Release ("2013
Budget is Launched") dated June 6, 2012.
4.    Improve Process for Approving Tax Exemptions
The Recipient has established a transparent and consistent process for
approving tax exemptions, as evidenced through: (i) the official record from
the Recipient's National Parliament (with reference "Customs and Excise
(Amendment) (No2) Act 2012 (No. 8 of 2012)) confirming that an "Act to
amend the customs and excise Act (Cap. 121) and make consequential
amendments to related tax acts" was passed by said National Parliament on
November 27, 2012; and (ii) the Commencement Notice sent by the
Recipient's Minister for Finance and Treasury on June 28, 2013.
5.    Improve Procurement Processes
The Recipient has established a dedicated procurement branch within its
Treasury including dedicated units for policy and training, tender support
and operational procurement, as evidenced through: (i) Letter dated June 6,
2013 (Ref: 473/1/9/23) from the Recipient's Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance and Treasury confirming the establishment of said
dedicated procurement branch; and (ii) the Recipient's Procurement and
Contract Administration Manual dated April 2013.
B. Improve the Financial Position of Key State Owned Enterprises
6.    Improve the Debt Situation of State Owned Enterprises
The Solomon Islands Electricity Authority and the Solomon Islands Water
Authority in collaboration with the Recipient's Ministry of Finance and
Treasury have agreed on a mechanism for the reduction of the Solomon
Islands Water Authority's debt towards the Solomon Islands Electricity
Authority, as evidenced through the "Debt Settlement Agreement" dated
May 31, 2012 between the Recipient's Ministries of Finance and Treasury
and Mines, Energy and Rural Electrification on the one hand and the
Solomon Islands Electricity Authority and the Solomon Islands Water
Authority on the other hand.
C. Improve Extractive Revenue Transparency
7.     Apply for Candidate Status to the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative


﻿-6-
The Recipient has applied successfully for candidate status to the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative, as evidenced through: (i) the application
letter (Ref: 472.09.11.01) dated May 10, 2012 signed by the Recipient's
Minister of Finance and Treasury and sent to the Chair of the Board of the
Extractive  Industries  Transparency  Initiative; (ii) the  admission
confirmation sent by the Head of the Secretariat of the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative by letter to the Recipient's Minister of Finance and
Treasury dated July 3, 2012; and (iii) the press articles "SI attains EITI
candidacy" published on the newspapers the Island Sun and the Solomon
Star, both on July 10, 2013.
Section II.  Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.     Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
in the table below:
Allocations            Amount of the Financing Allocated
(expressed in SDR)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche              1,400,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                               1,400,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
and (b) with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.
D.     Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree:
1.    all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
to the Association; and
2.    the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the


﻿-7-
Recipient's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Association.
E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
pa) ment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
cancelled.
F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2014.


﻿-8-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1. "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
loan;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
Recipient:
Group         Sub-group         Description of Item
112                             Alcoholic beverages
121                             Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                             Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                             Radioactive and associated
materials
667                             Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718           718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors
728           728.43            Tobacco processing
machinery
897           897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch


﻿-9-
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971                             Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
agreements to which the Recipient is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
occur.
2.     "Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative" means a global standard that
promotes revenue transparency and accountability in the extractive sector as
operating under the Statement of Principles and Agreed Actions of the London
Conference of June 17, 2003.
3.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010 with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
4.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated June 27, 2013 from the Recipient to the Association
declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
execution.
5.     "Recipient's Ministries" means all the Recipient's Ministries, or any successor
thereof, as follows: (i) Office of the Prime Minister and Cabinet; (ii) Ministry of
Public Service; (iii) Ministry of Development, Planning and Aid Coordination;
(iv) Ministry of Finance and Treasury; (v) Ministry of Police, National Security


﻿- 10-
and Correctional Services; (vi) Ministry of Women, Youth and Children's
Affairs; (vii) Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development; (viii)
Ministry of Health and Medical Services;  (ix) Ministry of Foreign Affairs
and External Trade; (x) Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Employment; (xi)
Ministry of Culture and Tourism; (xii) Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development; (xiii) Ministry of Lands, Housing and Survey; (xiv) Ministry of
Infrastructure Development; (xv) Ministry of Communication and Aviation; (xvi)
Ministry of Environment, Conservation Disaster Management and Meteorology;
(xvii) Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Resources; (xviii) Ministry of Mines,
Energy and Rural Electrification; (xix) Ministry of Provincial Government and
Institutional Strengthening; (xx) Ministry of Home Affairs; (xxi) Ministry of
National Unity, Reconciliation and Peace; (xxii) Ministry of Rural Development;
(xxiii) Ministry of Justice and Legal Affairs; and (xxiv) Ministry of Forestry and
Research.
6.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
7.     "Solomon Islands Electricity Authority" means the Recipient' s autonomous,
government-owned entity responsible for the generation, transmission,
distribution and sale of electrical energy throughout the Recipient's territory as
created and operating under the Recipient's Electricity Act of 1969.
8.     "Solomon Islands Water Authority" means the Recipient's autonomous,
government-owned entity responsible for public water and sewerage services in
the Recipient's territory as created and operating under the Recipient's Water Act
of 1992.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.


﻿- 11 -
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records
...   (c)    The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such records."
6.     Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
read as follows:
"Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...    (c)   The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Financing."
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Financing is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Financing Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows:


﻿- 12-
'"Program' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
support of which the Financing is made." All references to "Project"
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program".


