Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6646-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
May 13, !987
Pro jec ts Department
Lat in America and the Caribbean Regional Office
T his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ot
tbidr official duties. Its -ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit             - Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1                      - Col$ 225.0 (mid-February 1987)
Col$ 1,000                - US$4.44
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units of Weight and Measures: Metric System
Metric                        British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                  = 3.28 feet (ft)
) kilometer (km)             = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)              = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)         = 2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
AADT                      Average Annual Daily Traffic
CFT                       Transport Finance Corporation
COLPUERTOS                Colombian Port Authority
CONPES                    National Council for Economic and Social Policy
CUTMA                     Colombian Association of Transport Users
DAAC                      Administrative Department of Civil Aviation
DNP                       National Planning Department
ERR                       Economic Rate of Return
FAN                       National Aviation Fund
FIDECAFE                  Coffee Producers Association
FONADE                    National Develonment Fund
FNCV                      National Rural Roads Fund
FNC                       Colombian National Railways
FVN                       National Highway Fund
HDM                       Highway Design and Maintenanc, Model
IDB                       Inter-American Development Bar-k
INCOMEX                   Foreign Trade Institute
INCORA                    Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
INTRA                     National Transport Institute
IRI                       International Roughness Index
MOP                       Ministry of Public Works (until 1976)
MOPT                      Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(from 1976 onward)
SENA                      National Apprenticeship Training Service
SPWs                      Secretariats of Public Works (Departmental)



FOR OMCIAL UsR ONLY
SAFF APPRAISAL 3P0
SCOND NATIONAL NIOIVAS SBCTR PROJLCT
TANS OF CONTEM
Page No.
I. PROJECT SUMMARY oooeoooooooooo.oo...oo......,...                         1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......*,.......,..........................          3
A.   Transport Development and the Economy ......................    3
Be  Main Issueq......   .  s wv  *...4
(i) Fuel Pricing and Cost Recovery from Road Users ....             4
(ii)  Road Transport Regulation and Trade Facilitation               4
(iii)  MOPT's Internal Efficiency ..............,...............      5
(iv)  Transport Programing and Budgeting                             7
C    Bank Involvement in the Sector ********..........e,...              8
D.   Sector Strategy ........... 0g..... .................0.0.           9
III. MOPT'S HIGHWAY PROGRAM, THE PROJECT AND THE ACTION PLAN  ........       1)
A.   Project Origin and Objectives ..............e...............    10
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ......................t....   10
C.  MOPT Highway Expenditure and Funding Program                        10
D.   Economic Evaluation of the Investment and Maintenance
Program 0..                                                        12
E.   Project Description and Costs                                      13
F.   Policy Reform and Institutional Development Action Plan            15
G.   Assessment of R!4k ......17
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                 ........                         18
A.   Subproject Selection *.o*..o...*....*o.v.e................   18
B.  Project Execution ........o............oo....o............    19
C.   Procurement ***00000 *o ...............................    20
D.   Disbursement, Special Account and Audits ................    22
E.   Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring                   23
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..o ..................           24
This .eport is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Colombia
during September/October 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. Pedro Geraldes
(Mission Leader and Transport Economist) and Sergio Miquel (Highway Englneer,
Consultant). The mission has been assisted during shorter periods by Messrs. Luis
Pisan4 (Vocational Training Specialist), Jorge Duarte (Financial Analyst), Humberto
Petrei (Public Sector Economist, Consultant), Anil Bandhdri (Highway Planner,
Coan4lltant) and Ms. Theodora Underhill (Systems Analyst, Consultant). The report has
bees edited by Ms. Virginia Foster.
This documnt ha a nesttd distribution and may be used by moints cy in the pefwmane
of their oMcW duties. 1ts contents may not otherwise be dclosed without Wor Blanuk autholtion.



- ili-
Page No.
TABLES
2.1  Colombian Road Network (1986)      ............... .,..   26
2.2  Transport Demand for Freight and Passengers (1975-1985) ............   21
2.3  Public Exp,'nditure and Funding in Transport (1982-1986) ............   28
2.4  Price Structure of Petroleum Automotive Fuels (June 1986) ..........   29
2.5  Revenues from Taxes Levied on Users of the National Highway
Network and HOPT Highway Expenditures (1986).........................   30
2.6  Registered Trucks and Fleet Composition (1983-1985) ................   31
3.1  National Highway Network (1970-1986)              .......                32
3.2  MOPT's Pluriannual Expenditure and Funding Program (2 pages) .......   33
3.3  Summary of Recommended Highway Maintenance and Paving Strategy *....  35
3.4  Equipment and Spare Parts to be Flnanced under the Loan ............     36
4.1  Ongoing Highway Subprojects Eligible for Bank Financing       ............  37
4.2  Allocation of Loan Proceeds o.....,......................    38
4.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ......,........................   39
ANNEXS
I.  Transport Sector Background               ...........................   40
2.  Economic Assessment of Cost Recovery from Road Users ...............    46
3.  Transport Regulation and Trade Facilitation.....,,..................   48
4.  Highway Administration ......... .......... ..   51
5. Public Inveetment Programing and Budgeting in the
Transport Sector                  ..................  58
6.  Bank Assistance to the Highway Subs2ctor      ........................,..   63
7. National Highway Fund                       ..................... .*    68
8.  Economic Analysis of the Road Maintenance and Paving Programs ......  69
9* Training Program .. ...  ...... ................... ....    76
10.  Studies under the Technical Assistance Program         .....................   83
11.  Actions Already Taken During Project Preparation . .....      ............  86
12. MOPT's Action Plan (1987-1993)                  .......                   88
13.  MOPT's Program Targets (1987-1993) .................................   97
14.  Eligibility Criteria **v*v*e*******v*v**¢v 98
15.  Accounting and Auditing .......................................         101
16.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File       ...........  103
CHARTS
I -. Organization of MOPT ........................................   108
II - Organization of MOPT's Highway Directorate       .........................  109
MAP
IBERD 18406 - Colombia - Transportation Network



XORAU
,cm   iAXOw  UuuWxs SECTOR PlWlT
I.  PROJECT SIHR!m
Borrower:      Fondo Vial Nacional (FVN)
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia
MAount:        US$180.3 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
ProJect        The proposed project consists of an investment component to be
Description:   financed under the loan, and of a policy reform and institutional
development Action Plan.  The Investment component would consist of
a time-slice of MOPT's 1987-1993 highway program and the loan would
be disbursed against selected expenditures, including: (i) civil
works for rehabilitation of paved and gravel roads, for paving of
gravel roads, and for periodic maintenance of paved roads;
(ii) supervision of the corresponding road rehabilitation and
paving works; (iii) road safety; (iv) road maintenance equipment
and spares, and communications system; (v) training program; and
(vi) technical assistance. Under the Action Plan the project would
help to accomplish the following objectives: (i} strengthen MOPT's
highway management capabilities, including planning, financial
control, safety, personnel training, vehicle-weight-control and the
countrywide Implementation of pavement and equipment management
systems; (ii) adjust sector policies, covering road user charges,
the trucking industry and trade facilitation; and (iii) improve the
transport budgetary process at the level of MOPI, through the
implementation of programing and monitoring systems for the
different subsector agencies.
Beneficiaries: Road transport is of crucial importance to the Colombian economy
as a result of its dominance and of the long distances and
difficult terrain separating the main production and consumption
centers. The incidence of transport charges in the final prices of
several tradables is high, and, thus, reductions In vehicle
operating costs and time savings in the country's trunk highway
system should benefit the economy at large, and foreign trade in
particular. Last, the technical assistance component would provide
significiant support to a more efficient use of resources within
MOPT, hence contributing to Government efforts to strengthen public
sector management.
Risks:         Potential risks are those associated with the timeframe needed to
overcome long established institutional rigidities in MOPT's
operational structure. MOPT has showed, during project
preparation, a strong commitment to project objectives by
Initiating substantial actions covering road pricing and



-2-
organizational arrangements. Notwithstanding this, and in order
to provide for unforeseeable circumstances, allowance is made
under the project for a satisfactory annual review of progress in
implementing the Action Plan and Program Targets, as a requirement
for continued loan disbursements.
Estimated       The total cost of MOPT's 1987-1993 highway investment and
Cost:           maintenance program, net of administration costs, is estimated at
US$1.6 billion equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
US$654.1 million equivalent. The Bank loan represents 11% of the
total program and 28% of the foreign exchange requirements.
MOPT's Highway Investment and Maintenance Program, 1987-1993
Estimated Costs a/                          Local        Foreign         Total
- -- (Us$ million)
Investment Items                          693.4        538.8          1,232.2
New Construction                       136.8         99.1            235.9
Road Improvements                      506.6        366.9            873.5
Equipment                                5.4         48.2             53.6
Road Safety                             13.5          9.8             23.3
Training                                 0.8           1.8             2.6
Studies                                 30.3         13.0             43.3
Maintenance                               205.4          68.5           273.9
Base Cost                                 898.8        607.3          1,506.1
Contingencies                           70.1         46.8            116.9
Total Cost                                  968.9         654.1         1,623.0
Financing Sources
Government                             968.9        350.5          1,319.4
IDB (ongoing and proposed)               -          102.3            102.3
IBRD (ongoing)                           -           21.0             21.0
IBRD (proposed loan)                     -          180.3            180.3
Total Financing                             968.9        654.1          1,623.0
8m
a/ At February 1987 prices.
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank FY           1988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993      1994
Annual            31.0 1/   35.6       36.2      30.5       26.1      19.7       1.2
Cumulative       31.0       66.6      102.8     133,3      159.4     179.1    180.3
Rate of Return:  Above 35% for the road improvement and maintenance program (76%
of total project  costs), and at least 12% for the remaining road
components.
I/ Including initial deposit of US$9.0 million into Special Account.



II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Transport Development and the Economy
2.0i      Colombia has developed an extensive transport network comprising
about 104,000 km of roads, of which about 26,000 km constitute the national
highway network (para 3.03) and the remaining are largely unpaved Depart-
mental roads (53,000 km) and feeder roads (25,000 km) (Table 2.1 and para
2.08); 3,403 km of single track narrow gauge railway lines (2,822 km cur-
rently in operation); seven major seaports mostly serving international
traffic; 70 airports, of which seven are equipped for international flights;
some 1,366 km of navigable waterways; and over 9,000 km of crude oil, refined
products and gas pipelines. Road transport is the dominant mode, accounting
for about 76% of total freight traffic and for some 812 of the total passen-
ger traffic (Table 2.2). The share of rail and river in freight transport
(less than 3% and 5% of the total, respectively) has consistently declined
&ince the 1970s, in favor of the competitive road mode and of pipelines, in
the case of petroleum products. The participation of aviation in passenger
traffic has grown to 18% of the total from 15% in 1975, stimulated by rising
incomes and high land transport costs. With its primary infrastructure
largely in place, Colombia's investment priorities throughout the late 1980s
should emphasize the preservation of existing assets. Major investments in
new infrastructure would basically be limited to pipelines, to match in-
creasing levels of petroleum exports, and to roads, in support of compre-
hensive regional development programs and of the integration of the national
highway system. However, there is considerable scope for reduction in
transport costs through improvements in the operating efficiency of transport
modes and through more effective infrastructure maintenance. Background
information on transport sector matters, including the ports and railways
subsectors, is presented in Annex 1.
2*02      Central public expenditures in transport in the period 1982-1986
averaged some US$640 million2/ p.a., of which some 50% were allocated to
investment, and with debt service being limited to less than 1% of the total
(Table 2.3). Throughout that period, increasing priority was assigned to
investments in the rehabilitation of the country's port and railway systems
and in the construction of rural roads, in line with the Government's
commitment to expert promotion and agricultural diversification. Simulta-
neously, investments in the trunk highway network and aviation declined to
some 48% and 7% of the total, respectively, in 1986 (from 66% and 18% in
1982), reflecting the progressive completion of basic capital-absorbing
infrastructure facilities. Sector financing is arranged through a combina-
tion of sources dominated by earmarked proceeds of specific user taxes,
chaineled through subsector funds, and by the agencies operating and other
revenues. Combined revenues from these sources amounted to almost 73% of
sector funding requirements throughout the 1982-1986 period, with Government
appropriations and credit disbursements accounting for 14% and 13% of the
total, respectively. Although, in the past, the earmarking system for
specific subsector agencies may have introduced rigidities in intra-sectoral
allocation of resources, it has revealed a flexibility to adjust to shifting
needs over time. Since 1981, 10% of the proceeds of the National Highway
Fund (FVN) have been allocated to the railways; the National Rural Roads Fund
(FNCV) has also benefited from transfers of 10% of the revenues cf the FVN,
and from an increasing proportion of revenues accrulng to the National
Aviation Fund (FAN).
2/ Values in constant US$, at mid-1986 prices.



-4-
B.   Main Issues
2.03      The First Highway Sector Project focussed on strengthening highway
planning and implementation capability (Annex 6, paras. 9-12). The proposed
project would continue and broaden the sector dialogue with the Government by
addressing the following main issues: (a) cost recovery from road users;
(b) road transport regulation and trade facilitation; (c) MOPT's internal
efficiency; and (d) transport programing and budgeting.
(i) Fuel Pricing and Cost Recovery from Road Users
2.04      Colombia has maintained, in recent years, a policy of annual
increases in fuel prices to adjust for domestic inflation and to reflect the
corresponding opportunity costs. As of mid-1986, the retail prices of motor
fuels, inclusive of taxes, were well above their estimated international
levels (Table 2.4). The retail prices for regular and premium gasoline were
US$0.55 and US$0.63 per gallon respectively, while diesel-oil was retailing
at US$0.55 per gallon (equivalent). Consistently with Government policy,
retail prices were further adjusted in late 1986, one year since the last
price increase, to compensate for the exchange rate adjustment policy
currently in place. As of the adjustment date, regular gasoline and
diesel-oil were both retailing at US$0.60 per gallon, while premium gasoline
was priced at US$0.71 per gallon (equivalent), thus some 46 to 65% above
international prices. Fuel price developments in Colombia are being
monitored through specific provisions in a Bank loan to the National
Petroleum Company (ECOPETIOL).
2.05      Taxes on motor fuels, together with Import duties and sales taxes
on vehicles, spares and tires, tolls and registration taxes, constitute the
road user charges system in Colombia. Fiscal revenues raised through
specific user charges, and levied on users of the national highway network,
exceed the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) rehabilitation and
maintenance expenditures (Table 2.5), and charges on each vehicle type are
also above the associated routine, periodic maintenance, and rehabilitation
costs. Fuel taxes on motor fuels constttute the most important single source
of revenue from user charges, but, in economic terms, it can be argued that
just the difference between retail price and resource cost of fuels should
legitimately be considered as a user charge.. If this factor is taken into
consideration, economic charges on users of the national highway network
would still cover MOPT's maintenance and rehabilitation expenditures.
However, as shown in Annex 2, one specific category of vehicle (heavy
two-axle truck) would fall slightly short of covering the associated routine
and periodic maintenance costs. During project preparation, the Government
has increased toll levels for that category of vehicle substantially. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government under the Action Plan
on the adjustments in user charges which would be periodically required in
order to ensure at least the recovery, in economic terms, of road routine and
periodic maintenance costs associated with each category of vehicle, and,
particularly, that heavy two-axle trucks would be adequately charged by
December 1987 (paras 3.13 and 3.15 and Annex 12).
(ii) Road Transport Re8ulation and Trade Facilitation
2.06      The provision and marketing of transport services in Colombia is
subject to considerable Government intervention. The road transport industry
is affected, in particular, by a complex system of licensing and affiliation
and controls on expansion of the vehicle fleet. The main economic regula-
tiono fall basically under the National Transport Institute (INTRA) and they
c)mprise: (a) the licensing of drivers, vehicles and transport companies;
(b) the administration of a National Bill of Lading, a necessary document for



-5-
all legally valid public freight movement by road; and (c) advising the
Government on vehicle import and domestic assembly quotas. The company
licenising legislation is aimed at providing owner-operators, through company
membership, with the necessary means for commercialization (return loads,
brokerage service), security (insurance) and access to financing. Only
licensed companies have access to the National Bill of Lading and, thus, are
legally permitted to offer transport services. The additional controls on
vehicle entrance into the maTket provide the Government with an effective
tool for lim'ting the size and configuration of the truck fleet.  The outcome
of the existing regulatory framework has led to mixed results. Road trans-
port has developed extensively and has shown its ability to satisfy demand at
competitive prices. However, the structural and financial stability of the
trucking companies and the security of transport operatione have lagged
behind expectations. Moreover, further reduction in transport costs has been
hampered by the slow introduction of heavy multi-axle trucks (Table 2.S),
partly as a result of the restrictive policy on imports.
2.07      The preceding issues were addressed by a study financed under the
First Highway Sector Project. The study provides for a detailed assessment
of the impact of .egulations in road transport services and calls for a
gradual easing of the restrictive framework affecting the trucking industry,
as presented in Annex 3. The recommendations of the study also cover the
streamlining of regulations and procedures which have so far Inhibited the
expansion of inland container services and of intermodal transport combina-
tions, in support of foreign trade. During project preparation, the
Government initiated adjustments reflecting the study recommendations. The
key actions undertaken cover: (a) issuance of a new Decree regulating
INTRA's activities, which allows for owner-operators affiliation with several
transport companies, and for direct contracting between shippers and
owner-operators, for certain types of products (Presidential Decree No. 2330
of July 22, 1986); and (b) preparatory arrangements for the creation of a
Transport and Trade Facilitation Task Force in MOPT. Follow up measures are
included in the Action Plan which was agreed with the Government during
negotiations (paras 3.13 and 3.15 and Annex 12).
(iii) MOPT's Internal Efficiency
2.08      MOPT is in charge of the construction and maintenance of the
national network, while 23 Departments are in charge of secondary and rural
roads through their Secretariats of Public Works (SPW8) and the FNCV is in
charge of specific programs for the development of rural roads in cooperation
with the Departments and other Government authorities, as detailed in
Annex 4. These organizational arrangements for road administration are
adequate; however, they will be further strengthened by a departmental roads
maintenance study to be financed by the National Development Fund (FONADE)
under the Rural Transport Sector Project (Loan 2668-CO). MOPT's central
administration is divided into two main branches, the General Secretariat
carrying out administrative and financial functions and the Technical
Secretariat which is in charge of design, programing and execution. The
internal frictions and lack of coordination arising from this structural
separation were eased through the institutional strengthening effort carried
out under the First Highway Sector Loan, and they would be addressed further
under the Action Plan which was agreed with the Government during
negotiations (paras 3.14 and 3.15 and Annex 12), in particular through the
streamlining of bidding and contracting services.
2.09      Detailed engineering and construction supervision are usually
carried out by local consultant firms under the supervision of MOPT's



-6-
regional districts. The Projects Subdirectorate and the Subdirectorate for
Supervision of MOPT's Highway Directorate control quality of design and of
work execution. Quality of works has been affected in the past by inadequate
information on road construction materials, deficient quality of engineering
studies, cumbersome bidding and conwracting procedures, inadequate
performance of some contractors, and expensive supervision.  Substantial
progress in overcoming these weaknesses has been achieved under Loans 1471-CO
and 2121-C0, and they would be further addressed under the Action Plan which
was agreed with the Government during negotiations (paras 3.14 and 3.15 and
Annex 12), through, inter-alia: (a) expansion of the data base on materials
and strengthening of quality control of engineering studies; (b) improvements
in the effectiveness of contracting goods and services, in acordance with
standard bidding documents; and (c) implementation of corrective measures to
decrease contract rescheduling and rationalization of oupervision
arrangements.
2.10      Annual maintenance expenditures increased, in real terms, by about
50% in 1979 and by an average of 5% annually in the following years until
1983. They have remained stable since then and are far above the LAC
average. Despite the fact that budgetary allocations are now adequate,
previous efforts to improve the effectiveness of force account maintenance
operations have been only partially successful, as a result of low labor and
equipment productivity. However, there has been a shift away from
maintenance performed by force account to contracted maintenance. Of
particular interest has been MOPT's innovative initiative to contract routine
maintenance with labor absorbing small cooperatives (micro-enterprises)
covering about 50 km of road each, Under the First Highway Sector Project,
there has also been a substantial improvement in equipment management and in
the collection and evaluation of basic information needed for adequate
maintenance administration. Key actiozas envisaged under the proposed loan to
broaden nast achievements include the expansion of contracted maintenance and
the strengthening of the force account establishment through the countrywide
implementation of pavement and equipment management systems. The
introduction of these systems would be accompanied by the creation c-f a
Maintenance Subdirectorate and linked to productivity increases included in
the Action Plan and Program Targets which were agreed upon with the
Government during negotiations (paras 3.14 and 3.15 and Annex 12).
2.11      Although, under previous Bank projects, MOPT training programs had
improved significantly, inadequately trained personnel still remains a major
constraint to improve labor productivity. This situation is aggravated due
to several problems affecting MOPT training activities.  There are no sources
for training of heavy machine operators; Bogota's training center is poorly
equipped; classrooms and workshops are inadequate; training section personnel
and instructors' qualifications need to be upgraded; coordination between the
training section ard regions is weak; agreements between MOPT and the
National Service for Apprenticeship (SENA) need to be updated; content of
some training programs is no longer consistent with the :raining needs; and
course evaluation and follow up have not been applied. It is the firm policy
of MOPT to strengthen the training activities initiated under the First
Sector Project by expanding staff training programs, updating course content
and consolidating institutional mechanisms for continuous staff training
programs of all personnel categories. To achieve these objectives, MOPT
prepared a satisfactory training program in consultation with the Bank which
would be executed under the proposed project (paza 3.11 and Annex 9).



- 7 -
(iv) Transport Programing and Budgeting
2.12      Colombia has a relatively long tradition in transport planning,
mostly developed with Bank support, but the implementation of planning
strategies has been affected by the lack of responsiveness of the budgetary
process, as analyzed in Annex 5.   The planning system, established in 1958,
relies on the activities of the National Council for Economic and Social
Policy (CONPES), chaired by the President of the Republic, and of the
planning offices in the Ministries and other public sector agencie'. The
National Planning Department (DNP) acts as the executive secretariac for
CONPES and includes a Transport Division which interacts with the sector
agencies regarding the definition of goals and strategies in the sector.
Within MOPT there is a Sectoral Planning Office, directly attachea co the
Minister, which is intended to play a major role in planning and coordinating
sector activities. In practice, however, the office has concentrated almost
exclusively on highway planning matters, directly under MOPT, although the
new administration which took office on August 14, 1986 is committed to a
more strategic-oriented formulation of the transport plan, including its
follow-up through the preparation of sector operating plans (paras 3.13 and
3.14). Other sector agencies and enterprises have their own planning
offices, but their roles are somewhat intermixed with financial programing
and, in some cases, with administration. Project selection and evaluation
methods are widely used in all transport sector agencies, reflecting lasting
achievements of Bank involvement. However, monitoring of the subproject
portfolio remains the weakest phase of the whole project cycle. At MOPT
there are embryonic systems to monitor highway projects, and the FNCV, the
Colombian National Railways (FNC) and the Colombian Port Authority
(COLPUERTOS) have also established some form of procedures for project follow
up. The system used by each sector agency is limited in scope and seldom
generates information adequate to correct implementation problems at the
various levels of administration. Moreover, as of yet, there has been no
attempt to coordinate the different information mechanisms (para 2.15).
2.13      The budgetary process in Colombia has different rules and
procedures for current and capital expenditures. Budget preparation is based
on revenue projections carried out by the General Directorate of the Budget
of the Ministry of Finance and DNP. Revenues are estimated on accrual basis
(recognition) expected for the fiscal year, implying, for instance, that
credit resources are not to be budgeted unless they are firmly established by
an approved contract. Current estimates cannot, in general, exceed 1OX or be
less than 70% of previous year current revenues. These rules have been a
source of budget additions in the past, since inflation and the necessity of
contracting additional foreign loans have led to a systematic underestimation
of revenues. Once the initial estimates of current and capital resources are
made, a tentative distribution of budget resources among ministries and
agencies is prepared by the Ministry of Finance for current expenditures and
by DNP for investment, According to present budgetary practice, it is
difficult for MOPT to determine, at any given momcnt, the amount of funds
already committed for ongoing projects and the funds available for new
investment. Also, in any given year, it is difficult to determine the future
budgetary implications of new projects being approved. This has made it
difficult to r-ogram investment at the time of budget preparation and to
program its execution adequatelv throughout the year.
2.14      Moreover; the practice of obtaining additional budget resources
after the original budget is approved, combined with uncertainty as to the
additional level of funding to be secured, has led to considerable
overcommit¢mnt particularly in the highways subsector. In addition, funds



- 8 -
are also needed during budget execution to adjust contracts for inflation.
In the last few years, in the case of roads, contract cost aujustments have
tended to be higher than expected. Unitary cost adjustments granted to
contractors are based on MOPT's own-indices, and these have exceeded
inflation as measured by cost of living or wholesale price Indices.
Above-inflation adjustments are explained as due to recent real Colombian
Peso devaluations, and because imported items have a considerable weight in
the indices. A thorough review of MOPT's indices is Justified at this stage,
and was agreed with the Government during negotiations, particularly since
they are based on a combination of inputs that prevailed in the 1960a (paras
3.14 and 3.15).
2.15      There is considerable scope for improvement In the budget
preparation and execution processes at the level of the transport sector
under MOPT. The adoption of a complete system to monitor projects would
contribute to close the gap between programing of works and their execution.
The system should use both physical and financial indicators, produce regular
reports for various decisional levels, Identify main causes of differences
between programing and execution and trigger corrective actions in case
problems arisee The implementation of a rolling pluriannual investment
budget would also assist MOPT to achieve improved coordination between budget
programing and project funding requirements. This system should be
periodically updated for price cnanges, and it would allow for the proportion
of the total project costs already executed, and to be executed in future
years, to be readily available, at any time. The relationships between MOPT
and sector parastatals, particularly the railways and ports enterprises,
would need improvcDont in tht framework of a system of performance indicators
rather than on budgetary controls. The implementation of this performance
monitoring system should be accompanied by improvements in the present
financial projections practices of the sector revenue-earning entities. More
adequate revenue and expenditure projections, prepared in accordance with
standard commercial practice, rather than on strict budgetary balancing
criteria, would contribute to enhance the use of financial information for
management purposes. The improvement of sector budget programing and
execution practices would be pursued under the proposed project. A detailed
Action Plan for the implementation of the required changes was agreed with
the Government during negotiations (paras 3.14 and 3.15 and Annex 12) and it
would be supported through the Technical Assistance included in tite Project
(Annex 10).
C.   Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.16      The Bank has played a major role in the development of Colombia's
transport system. Bank involvement dates back to 1949, when country strategy
was necessarily oriented to capital-intensive infrastructure projects.  Since
1950, the Bank has lent a cumulative amount of about US$803 million to the
transport sector, of which US$378 million to highways, US$197 million to
railways, US$124 million to rural roads, US$61 million to aviation, and US$43
million to ports. Bank involvement in the sector has been placing increasing
emphasis on institutional strengthening and improved management of sector
agencies, mostly targeted at better cuc:Iination between engineering and
financial programing, the systematic use of economic appraisal methodologies,
and manpower development. The First Highway Sectcr Loan, approved In 1981
and now fully committed, aimed primarily at sLrengthening subsector planning
capabilities at the level of MOPT, and at initiating a cooperative sector
development effort which would be followed up under the proposed project
(para 3.01).  A summary of Bank assistance to trms highway subsector h.s
presented in Arnnex 6.



-9-
2.17      The performance of the transport projects so far has been mixed.
The results with the rural roads, highways and aviation projects have been
positive and the respective loans have contributed significantly to subsector
management improvements. In particular, recomiiendations of the latest
Project Completion Report for the highways subsector (Loen 680-CO), drawing
attention to a more realistic assessment of MOPT's capacity to prepare and
manage engineering projects and to the importance of road maintenance, have
been successfully addressed in subsequent operations. However, the
activities involving the railway subsector have fallen short of expectation.
The Seventh Railway Project (Loan 2090-CO) had a slow start, which compounded
by lack of counterpart financing and capable management, led to delays in the
implementation of an l-gently required rehahilitation program. In view of
the progressive deterioration of the railway's physical assets and financial
performance, the Government, in cooperation with the Bank, decided to
undertake a study to reassess the role of the railways in the Colombian
economy and, if justified, to define an institutional adjustment strategy.
Future involvement of the Bank in the railway subsector would be contingent
upon the results of the study, and of the adoption by the Government of the
institutional reforms in support of the study recommendations.
D.   Sector Strategy
2.18      The Bank's medium term strategy for Colombia stresses export
expansion and diversification, employment growth, improved resource
mobilization and sectoral policies in support of the macroeconomic program,
particularly through the removal of distortions and impediments to
efficiency. In line with the country strategy, transport sector strategy
emphasizes policy reform and institutional building objectives, including:
(a) policies targeted at achieving a more balanced use of existing transport
alternatives, through adequate price signals to consumers and improvements in
marketing and distribution arrangements for key commodities; (b) equitable
treatment for the distinct modes of transport, and for each user of public
infrastructure, by pursuing the development and adoption of cost-based
pricing policies for each mode, to cover marginal costs of use; (c) reduction
of total transport costs, by improving modal interfaces and the efficiency of
operations of public-managed or regulated transport modes; (d) public sector
funding and expenditure mechanisms to reflect the costs of use of existing
infrastructure and facilities; (e) investment planning to give adequate
priority to export development, agriculture diversification, and energy
conservation and substitution, with emphasis on rehabilitation and
maintenance programs; (f) further integration of the public planning,
budgeting and programing processes and rationalization of the financial and
personnel management practices of sector agencies; (g) labor absorption, by
substitution of labor for capital, whenever economically worthwhile;
(h) increasing the role of the private sector, whenever comparative
advantages prevail; and (i) institutional and human resources development,
through comprehensive training programs at the upper and middle management,
and operating levels. During negotiations, agreement has been reached with.
the Government on a sector development letter confirming the outlined
strategy, and including provision for regular consultations with the Bank on
the transport sector expenditure and funding program.
2.19      The Bank's lending strategy in the sector is designed in support of
the preceding objectives. Operations approved by the Board in FY86 comprise
a Port Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2635-CO, US$42.8 million) and a Rural
Transport Sector Project (Loan 2668-CO, US$62.0 million) to improve
operational efficiency and reduce transport costs in support of export
promotion and diversification. In addition. the DroDosed sector Droiect



- 10 -
pursues broader transport sector management objectives, covering policy
adjustments and improved multi-modal coordination.
III. MOPT'S HIGHWAY PROGRAM. THE PROJECT AND THE ACTION PLAN
A.   Project Origin and Objectives
3.01      The proposed project is designed as a Sector Project.  It Includes
a policy reform and :.nstitutional improvement Action Plan providing the
framework for an investment component to be financed under the loan. The
Action Plan would support the strengthening of MOPT's highway management
capabilities initiated under the First Highway Sector Project, covering
planning, financial control, road safety, personnel training,
vehicle-weight-control and the country-wide implemertation of pavement and
equipment management systems, including cost-based budgeting for routine
maintenance works. It would also include the implementation of
recommendations of the road user Charges and trucking regulation and services
studies financed under the First Sector Project. In particular, the
facilitation of transport services would be pursued through actions aimed at
streamlining regulation and documentation, and removing other bottlenecks
which have so far prevented a more efficient flow of goods, namely exports.
The Action Plan would also aim at improving the transport budgetary process
at the level of MOPT, through the implementation of budget prcgraming and
monitoring systems covering the different subsector agencies. The investment
component would consist of a time-slice of MOPT's pluriannual road investment
and maintenance program, and the loan would be predominantly disbursed
against expenditures in road rehabilitation, maintenance, paving and safety
in the context of an economically balanced highway program. In addition,
financing under the loan would be provided for technical assistance,
training, and procurement of equipment.
B.   Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.02      With the difficult physical characteristics of the country and the
long distances separating the main production and consumption centers,
transport has been and remains a major constraint to Colombia's development
performance. Reducing transport costs, particularly for the road dominant
mode, has been an objective actively pursued by the Government, in support of
integration of the domestic market, export promotion and diversification. In
line with the country sector strategy, continuing Bank assistance to the
highway subsector would support policies and programs aimed primarily at
improving: (a) resource mobilization and resource allocation, through the
implementation of a cost-based user charges system, strengtheninsi of sector
planning capabilities and increasing of flexibility in sector 'undiag
mechanisms; (b) operating efficiency of road transport, through adjustments
in the regulatory framework and trade facilitation measures; (c) investment
efficiency, by targeting highway expenditures to the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the country's trunk road network system; (d) resource use,
through an increasing participation of the private sector in the execution of
road maintenance works, and greater cost-effectiveness within the force
account organization; and (e) institutional efficiency, by fostering improved
coordination between budget programing and execution, and the implementation
of comprehensive road management systems.
C. MOPT Hilghway Expenditure and Funding Program
3.03      Colombia's national highway system comprises some 26,000 km of
roads under the jurisdiction of MOPT. The system consists of: (a) the



- 11 -
primary road network, of about 11,000 km, that connects the main economic
centers among themselves and with the seaports and neighboring countries; and
(b) about 15,000 km of secondary roads that link smaller towns to the primary
network and roads that provide access to other transport modes (i.e., river
ports). The national highway network experienced rapid development until the
1980s, in support of a growing and diversified economy. During the 1970-1980
period, its extension increased by some 15X, while the length of its paved
fraction almost doubled (Table 3.1). From the mid-1970s onward, road
maintenance and rehabilitation requirements have increased progressively,
reflecting the rapid expansion of the network and the aging of its older
sections. The increasing deterioration of the road network, and the
progressive consolidation of the primary highway system, would require that
the utmost priority continues to be given to the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing facilities. Construction of new roads would be very
selective and basically limited to improvements in the operation of the
existing trunk highway system, and to support the National Rehabilitation
Plan targeted at fostering growth in agricultural-resourceful, but depressed,
areas. Investments in road infrastructure would have to be complemented by
small investments targeted at improving highway management. These would
include the continuation and extension of the road safety, training and
studies programs initiated under the First Highway Sector Project. Moreover,
limited investments in equipr-int would be required for spare parts and
replacement of obsolete road maintenance units, for weighing scales to carry
out the vehicle-weight-control program, and for communications equipment.
3.04      MOPT's 1987-1993 highway program has been prepared to address
identified road physical requirements as well as constraints to a more
effective highway management. MOPT's highway program would amount to an
estimated US$1.8 billion3/ throughout the 1987-1993 period (Table 3.2), of
which investmeit, including rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, would
account for 74Z, routine maintenance for 17%, and administration for 9%.
Debt service obligations would amount to some 20% of MOPT's total expenditure
le%el. Road investments are dominated by civil works, with new construction
limited to some 20% of the total. Programed budget allocations would allow
for average annual targets of: (a) 420 km for rehabilitation and 830 km for
periodic maintenance of paved roads; (b) 420 km for paving of gravel roads
mostly with AADT above 250, and 520 km of rehabilitation or regraveling of
unpaved roads with AADT below 250 but above 100; and (c) 930 km for
horizontal marking, 570 km for vertical signalization and 20 km of barriers
in support of improved road safety conditions. These targets are detailed in
Annex 13. The network investment strategy is balanced, in view of traffic
levelsf road condition and foreseeable resource availability (para 3.08). It
would contribute to bring the most highly-trafficked sections of the network
to an acceptable level of service, while preventing further deterioration of
other sections beyond the stage where more costly rehabilitation or full
reconstruction would be required. Investments in equipment, training and
studies, amounting to about 8% of the total investment budget, are also
adequate in view of detected requirements to improve the force account
maintenance organization in particular, and institutional efficiency at
large.
3.05      MOPT's annual expenditure level throughout the 1987-1993 period
would increase at an average annual rate of 2.2%, in real terms, which is in
line with pasc levels (Table 3.2), and well within MOPT's capacity to manage
investment programs.  The consolidated investment level for rehabilitatioa
and periodic maintenance would be kept at about the same level as in the
1983-1986 period; however, an increasing share would be allocated to periodic
maintenance, reflecting the considerable effort in rehabilitation carried out
3/ Including administration and price contingencies.



- 12 -
in the early 1980s. Investments in paving and road safety would continue to
incre.ase gradually to keep pace with traffic growth, while investments in
equipment would progressively decline, in line with MOPT's policy of
contracting maintenance works with the private sector. That policy is also
reflected in the annual budget allocations to the training program from 1988
onward, which would be considerably below the levels reached in 1986 and
1987. Moreover, programed expenditures in routine maintenance would increase
only moderately, reflecting the gradual involvement of the more
cost-effective small cooperatives in the execution of works (para 3.14).
3.06      MOPT'I 1987-1993 expenditure program would be funded through a
combination of sources, dominated by the earmarked proceeds of motor fuel
taxation (66%), and followed by receipts from tolls and other own-sources
(19%), foreign credit disbursements (13%), Government appropriations, and
domestic credit operations (1% each). The projected funding level is
reasonable in view of the foreseeable evolution of each source of funding.
The proceeds of the highway tax levied on gasoline and diesel-oil
consumption, of which 75% are earmarked to MOPT through the FVN (Annex 7),
would increase at about 4% p.a., in real terms, in line with fuel consumption
and consistently with traffic forecasts. Foreign c%edit operations would
include disbursements under ongoing IDB and IBRD loans, and under a new IDB
loan and the proposed IBRD loan. Receipts from tolls would increase at a
real 7% p.a., basically reflecting traffic growth and a selective extension
in the coverage of the road toll system. Direct Government transfers would
decline progressively to about 1% of the total funding requirements in 1993
(14% in 1983), in line with Government policy of financial self-sufficiency
for the sector agencies. The volume of domestic credit operations would also
be below its pre-1987 level. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government that MOPT would periodically review its highway expenditure
and funding program, and present it to the Bank not later than October of
each year, in accordance with policies and economic criteria satisfactory to
the. Bank (paras 3.07, 3.08 and 4.02), and that any shortfall in Government
funding for the program, during a specific fiscal year, would be made up in
the subsequent year.
D.   Economic Evaluation of the Investment and Maintenance Program
3.07      Road work programs are systematically subject to economic analysis
by MOPT, following procedures agreed with the Bank under the First Highway
Sector Project. Civ:l works expenditures, including new construction,
rehabilitation, maintenance and paving, account for about 93% of MOPT's
1987-1993 road investment and maintenance program. New construction accounts
for about 17% of the total civil works program, and major new road
construction investments, so far considered in the pluriannual expenditure
program, are largely for the completion of ongoing works and, as such, have
been subjected to normal economic scrutiny yielding economic rates of return
(ERR) above 12%. The principal benefits are vehicle operating costs and time
savings arising from shortened travel distances. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government that for additional candidate
subprojects to be included in the new construction program specific
pre-feasibility studies would be prepared and submited to Bank review, and
that in no case would investment proposals yielding an ERR estimated at below
12% be considered.
3.08      The economic evaluation of the road rehabilitation, maintenance and
paving programs, corrasponding to 82% of the total civil works program, has
been carried out in two stages. First the program was analysed in an
aggregate way to select the optimum capital expenditure for the 1987-1993
period. This strategy would minimize the total life cycle-costs to society,
including the costs to the road users as well as the costs born by the road



- 13 -
authority, under the foreseeable scenario of budgetary availability. The
methodology   ed, which was based on the M;ank-developed Highway Design and
Maintenance Model, Release III (HDM-III) to further detailed in Annex 8, and
results of the economic evaluation are available in the Project File
(Annex 16).  Twelve maintenance policiee were tested for paved roads and
seven for gravel roads. On the basis of maximizing the net present values,
obtained with a discount rate of 12X, the optimum policies are as presented
in tables 4 and 5 of Annex 8 and summarized in Table 3.3, Results of the
analysis confirmed the economic balance of the proposed program and its high
economic priority. The estimated average ERR for the investments in the
rehabilitation and maintenance of paved roads ranges from 20% to 100%,
depending on traffic volumes. The paving program would yield ERRs ranging,
in average, from 20% to about 702 in the most trafficked sections, while
foreseen investments in the periodic maintenance of gravel roads would yield
ERRs estimated at about 40%.
3.09      The second stage of the analysis relates to the identification and
evaluation of each specific group of road rehabilitation, maintenance and
paving subprojects for inclusion, each year, in the pluriannual program.
Economic evaluation for a first group of road paving and rehabilitation
subprojects, carried out by MOPT under the First Highway Sector Project, was
updated during appraisal for cost and traffic variations, and found
satisfactory. The proposed subprojects would yield economic rates of return
varying from 13 to more than 100% (para 4.01). A second group of road
subprojects, yielding economic returns above 202 has been submitted to Bank
review during negotiations and also found acceptable (para 4.01). Subsequent
groups of roads would be also identified and evaluated by MOPT. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that rehabilitation,
maintenance and paving subprojects tc be included in the pluriannual program
would be selected in the context of a balanced investment strategy, and in no
case would yielA an ERR below 12%, estimated in accordance with economic
criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.08 and Annex 8).
E.   Project Description and Costs
3.10      The proposed project consists of MOPT's 1987-1993 road investment
and maintenance program, net of administration costs. The total project cost
amounts to US$1.6 billion, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$654.1 million, broken down into US$583.7 million of investment costs
(89% of the total foreign exchange cost) and US$74.1 million of recurrent
costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$180.3 million would meet 282 of the
foreign exchange cost of the project and 11% of the total project cost.
Financfng under ongoing IBRD and IDB loans and an additional IDB loan would
amount to US$123.3 million, bringing the total foreign financing to US$303.6
million, which is less than the foreign exchange component of the capital
cost of the investment and maintenance program. The program is detailed in
Table 3.2 and summarized on page 14. Bank participation in the project is
estimated on the basis of a seven-year disbursement period and on the foreign
exchange component of eligible contracts,  However, in order to provide
incentives to MOP¶I to accelerate the implementation of the high priority
components of the investment program directly supported by loan
disbursements, Bank participation could go up to a maximum of 212 of the
total program; in such circumstances, the total foreign financing would still
be below the foreign exchange component of the capital cost of the investment
and maintenance program. The percentage of Bank financing would be adjusted
annually to compensate for any shortfall in Government funding during the
previous fiscal year (para 3.06) in order to ensure that Bank participation
in the total program does not exceed a maximum 21% cost sharing of the total
cost of the program, in average.



- 14 -
Summary of MOPT's Road Investment and Maintenance
and their Financing (1987-1993)
(in millions of US$, at February 1987 prices)
Percentage
Total     Local      Foreip       Foreign
Highway Investment and Maintenance
Investment                           1,232.2     693.4       538.8         44
New Construction                     235.9      136.8       99.1         42
Paving                               283.1     164.2       118.9         42
Rehabilitation, of which             290.4      168.4      122.0         42
Paved Roads                        238.0     138.0       100.0         42
Gravel Roads                        52.4      30.4        22.0         42
Periodic Maintenance, of which       300.0     174.0       12S.0         42
Force Account                      161.3      93.6        67.7         42
Contracted                         138.7      80.4        58.3         42
Equipment                             53.6        5.4       48.2         90
Road Safety                           23.3       13.5        9.8         42
Training                               2.6       0.8         1.8         71
Studies                               43.3      30.3        13.0         30
Routine Maintenance                    273.9     205.4        68.5         25
Force Account                        241.9     181.4        60.5         25
Contracted                            32.0      24.0         8.0         25
Subtotal Program                        1,506.1      898.8      607.3         40
Price Contingencies                    116.9      70.1        46.8         40
Total Program                           1,623.0      968.9      654.1         40
Financlng Sources
Government                           1,319.4     968.9       350.5
IDB (ongoing and proposed)             102.3       -         102.3
IBRD (ongoing)                          21.0       -          21.0
IBRD (proposed loan)                   180.3       -         180.3
Total Financing                         1,623.0      968.9      654.1
Percentage Foreign Financing               19         n.a        46
Percentage Proposed IBRD Loan              11         n.a.       28
_           _E_



- 15 -
3.11      The main components of the program to be financed under the
proposed loan would be as follows (total cost, including contingencies,
indicated in parentheses):
(a)  Highway Improvements
This component would include:  (i) civil works for rehabilitation
of about 800 km of paved roads (US$62.0 million) and 3,000 km of
gravel roads (US$49.5 million); (ii) civil works for paving of
about 1,000 km of gravel roads (US$94.0 million); (iii) civil works
for contracted periodic maintenance of about 2,400 km of paved
roads (US$90.8 million); and (iv) contracted supervision of the
corresponding road rehabilitation and paving works
(US$20.5 million).
(b) Road Safety
This component would cover MOPT's road safety program, including
marking, signalization, barriers and equipment (US$25.2 million).
(c)  Equipment
This component would include road maintenance equipment and spare
parts, vehicle weighing scales and communications system
(US$37.0 million) (Table 3.4).
(d) Training
This component would include technical cooperation, including
scholarships abroad, construction and rehabilitation of training
fecilities, training equipment and other materials, as detailed in
Annex 9 (US$2.2 million).
(e) Technical Assistance
This component would include the studies required to implement the
Action Program (para 3.13 and 3.14), as outlined in Annex 10
(US$7.0 million).
F.   Policy Reform and Institutional Development Action Plan
3.12      In preparing its pluriannual highway program MOPT, in consultation
with the Bank, established a series of actions directed at resolving the
major issues identified in this report (paras 2.04 to 2.15), and a set of
related yearly targets, including financial, investment and organizational
indicators, to be achieved during the 1987-1993 period. The actions are
incorporated into an Action Plan covering adjustments in sector policy and
improvements in institutional efficiency, as detailed in Annex 12 and



- 16 -
summarized below. The indicators are included in MOPT's Program Targets
(1987-1993) presented in Annex 13.
3.13      The main actions contemplated in sector pollcy include regular
adjustments in the road user charges system to ensure adequate coverage of
variable costs of road use, progressive streamlining of road transport
regulations and of procedures affecting international trade, and public
investment programing and funding. To attain these objectives, MOPT would:
(a)  ensure that all vehicle categories are being charged for at least
the associated road routine and periodic maintenance costs;
(b)  decrease Government intervention in the road transport market, in
particular through a full reassessment of the role of INTRA in
economic regulation;
(c) promote the reformulation of the Codes of Comerce and Transport
for improved equity and insurance coverage in transport contracts
and the review of truck domestic assembly and import policy;
Cd)  rationalize the controls and other institutional barriers hampering
the wider use of containers and intermodal transport; and
(e)  update and approve the National Transport Plan, taking into due
consideration the economic role of the different transport modes,
the improvement of inland movements of solid and liquid bulks, and
the definition of strategies for the role of the Government in
freight consolidation, for the role of the private sector as a
direct provider of capital for infrastructure facilities, and for
in -easing flexibility in sector funding arrangements.
3.14      The main actions envisaged in institutional efficiency adjustments
cover improvements in MOPT's sector managerial and budgetary processes, road
maintenance management, civil works contract administration and personnel
training. To pursue these adjustments, MOPT would:
(a)  develop and implement computerized systems, at the transport sector
level, for the monitoring of the subproject portfolio, for
pluriannual rolling expenditure and funding programs, and for the
monitoring of the financial and operational performance of the
parastatals;
(b)  implement corrective measures to decrease contract escalation
surcharging, Including the revision of the construction cost
adjustment formulas;
(c)  prepare regular sector operating plans in accordance with the
strategy set up in the National Transport Plan;
(d) improve accounting and internal control systems (para 4.17);
(e)  increase the level of contracted maintenance and adjust force
account maintenance expenditures accordingly;



- 17 -
(f) institutionalize a Maintenance Subdirectorate to foster a more
effective and comprehensive management of road maintenance planning
and execution, particularly through the countrywide implementation
of pavement and equipment management systems, and to increase labor
productivity;
(g) acquire the required equipment to ensure a more effective
vehicle-weight-control;
(h) contract technical assistance to strengthen execution and
supervision of engineering studies and update design norms;
(1) strengthening and streamlining bidding and contracting services and
improving coordination with MOPT's Legal Advisor's Office; and
(j) ensure adequate technical cooperation in training with external
sources, In the context of a clear statement on training policy.
3.15      In order to ensure continuity with actions started under the First
Highway Sector Project, the implementation of the Action Plan was initiated
during project preparation, as detailed in Annex 11. Main actions undertaken
by MOPT include:  (a) increasing road tolls in line w4.h the heavy
construction price index, abolishing the National Bill of Lading, creating a
Transport and Trade Facilitation Task Force, and preparing terms of reference
for the National Transport Plan; (b) creating a Maintenance Subdirectorate,
initiating the review of criteria for civil works contract management,
starting the bidding process for vehicle-weight-control equipment, and
preparing terms of reference for budget programing systems and road
management studies; and (c) approving a policy statement on personnel
training and a new agreement with SENA. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on MOPT's Action P'an (1987-1993), and that
progress in the implementation of the detailed Action Plan and Program
Targets, included in Annexes 12 and 13, would be reviewed each year and
appropriate adjustments agreed as a requirement for continued disbursements.
G.   Assessment of Risk
3.16      The proposed Second Highway Sector Project has been prepared on the
basis of the experience gained during implementation of the First Highway
Sector Project. MOPT's 1987-1993 pluriannual road expenditure and funding
program was reviewed deeply and found acceptable, in view of identified
investment requirements, foreseeable financing availability, and the capacity
of the construction industry and of MOPT to implement road works. The loan
amount has been set prudently below the full potential for eligible
subprojects, and project implementation schedule and disbursement estimates
are in line with past evidence in similar projects in Colombia (para 4.16).
During implementation of the First Sector Project, MOPT has considerably
strengthened its in-house capability to prepare economic-based highway
programs, including its road safety and 'raining components. As a result,



- 18 -
MOPT has acquired a comprehensive capability to identify and evaluate
subprojects in accordance with sound methodologies acceptable to Bank
standards.
3.17      Potential risks are those associated with the timeframe needed to
overcome long established institutional rigidities in MOPT's operational
structure. During project preparation, MOPT has already taken substantial
actions covering road pricing and organizational arrangements. The
responsiveness of the Colombian authorities has showed their strong
commitment to project objectives and has made possible the presentation of
the proposed lending operation. Moreover, the program of technical
assistance envisaged under the project would contribute to assist MOPT in
broadening its awareness of important issues affecting sector management, and
at formulating and implementing appropriate policies. Notwithstanding this,
and in order to provide for unforeseeable circumstances, allowan-e is made
under the proposed project for a satisfactory annual review of progress in
implementing the Action Plan and Program Targets, as a requirement for
contitued loan disbursements.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Subproject Selection
4.01      Two important concepts to be considered during the execution of the
project are the individual subprojects and the associated contract(s). The
subproject is the unit considered for purposes of selection, preparation and
evaluation, while contracts for the implementation of specific subprojects
are the basis for disbursements. Civil works financing under the proposed
loan would continue execution of eligible subprojects approved under the
First Highway Sector Project and of projects initiated under MOPT's own
financing that were declared eligible for this purpose (Table 4,1).
Additionally the proposed project would finance the initiation of subprojects
to be declared eligible and contracts awarded during project implementation.
The proposed loan would consequently finance a time-slice (1987-1993) of
expenditures of road rehabilitation, paving and periodic maintenance
subprojects approved by the Bank. Not all of the new subprojects would be
financed until their completion since loan funds may be depleted earlier.
Although most subproject contracts would be completed within six months of
the full disbursement of the loan, MOPT would agree to complete the works
still under construction when loan funds are exhausted in accordance with a
schedule defined for each subproject.  At negotiations agreement was reached
that the Government would provide adequate and timely funding to complete all
subprojects financed under the loan. The proposed loan would also finance
the continuation of technical assistance and training programs initiated
under the First Highway Sector Project and the implementation of new
technical assistance programs, studies and selected equipment procurement
approved under the proposed project.
4.02      A detailed program for 1987 and tentative programs for 1988 and
1989 were reviewed during appraisal and were agreed upon during negotiations



- 19 -
(paras 3.07 and 3.15). These programs, prepared in accordance with technical
and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank, would be adjusted annually,
in view of the executing performance during the previous year, and would be
agreed with the Bank during the semi-annual consultations (para 4.20). In
addition, and for new construction projects, particularly the ones under the
National Rehabilitation Plan, an environmental assessment of its impact would
be carried out before they are considered for inclusion in the program,
including (if relevant) an evaluation of the socio-cultural effects on
Amerindian tribal populations.
4.03      In order to be declared eligible for financing under the proposed
loan, civil works subprojects and other project components would have to be:
(a) technically sound; and (b) economically justified. Annex 13 explains in
detail the evaluation criteria to be used in particular for rehabilitation
and paving, for periodic maintenance and for road safety and training civil
works; for equipment procurement; and for studies and technical assistance.
Once a road civil works subproject has been declared eligible, MOPT would
complete the detailed engineering and subsequently submit an updating of the
economic justification. These detailed evaluation criteria were agreed upon
during negotiations.
B.   Project Execution
4.04      The proposed loan of US$180.3 million would be made to the
FVN, created by Law No. 64 of 1967. FVN is an autonomous legal entity, able
to contrac. financial obligations. FVN has, as its legal representative, the
Minister of 1MOPT and shares MOPT's staff and structure. Throughout this
report, references made to MOPT as entity in charge of project execution
should be deemed to be made to FVN in its legal capacity to execute the
policies and programs of MOPT, including the project.
4.05      Overall responsibility for the execution of the project would rest
with MOPT, which would delegate to some of its specialized divisions
responsibilities for the execution of specific project components, i.e.:
(a) the Sectoral Planning Office for all transport related matters and for
budget programing; (b) the Highway Directorate, mainly through its Projects
and Supervision Sub-Directorates and the 23 Districts for road construction,
rehabilitation, paving and maintenance; (c) the Equipment Sub-Directorate for
equipment procurement and administration; and (d) the Industrial Relations
Directorate for the training component. These divisions would be assisted by
the Legal Advisor Office, by the Bidding and Contracting Directorate, by the
Financial and Commercial Directorate in matters related to procurement and
financing, and by the Organization and Systematization Office in matters
related to computerization. Responsibility for general coordination and
relations with the Bank would be supported by the Foreign Credit Office
reporting directly to the Minister. This distribution of responsibilities is
the same as that used for implementation of the two last Bank loans and of
two IDB loans. The corresponding organizational arrangements have been
substantially strengthened, particularly under the ongoing First Highway
Sector Project (Annex 4), and would be further strengthened under the
proposed loan (para. 3.14).



20 -
C.   Procurement
4.06      General.  Procurement for the Bank financed couponents of the
project would be as follows:
Procurement Methods 1/
Project Element                 ICB       LCB       Other    N.A. 2/    Total
--~ ~ 1 US$ million
Civil Works                     58.5     283.5        -        -          342.0
(24*5)   (118.5)     (-)       (-)       (143.0)
Maintenance Equipment           31.6        5.4       -        -           37.0
(28.7)     (4.9)     (-)       (-)        (33.6)
Consultant Services
for Technical Assistance       3.1       3.9        -        2.2         9.2
and Training                  (0.9)     (1.2)      (-)      (1.6)        (3.7)
Total                           93.2     292.8        -        2.2        388.2
0= 0tamm                      (54.1)   (124.6)      (-)      (1.6)      (180.3)
I/ Amounts in brackets show the allocations frt a ,he proceeds of the loan.
2/ Not applicable: training expenditures.
4.07      The proposed project would finance civil works contracts for about
US$342 million, of which some US$84 million have already been contracted but
would be eligible for time-slice financing under the loan (Table 4.1). The
value of individual paved road rehabilitation and of paving contracts would
vary between US$1.0 and US$4.0 million, while contracts for gravel road
rehabilitation, for periodic maintenance and for road safety would vary
between US$0.2 and US$1.0 million. According to their bidding capacity,
contractors would be able to submit bids for more than one contract in bid
packages. However, the subprojects are scattered throughout this large and
geographically most difficult cauntry and their execution would be spread
over seven years, constraining their being packaged to attract foreign
competition. Moreover, the experience under the last two highway loans
demonstrates that foreign contractors have limited interest in participating
in bids for even larger contracts. Nevertheless, they have succeeded In
obtaining a few contracts. Therefore, most contracts are expected to ba won
by local contractors. However, contracts for civil works estimated to cost
US$3.0 million or more, or packages of smaller contracts with a combined cost
of about US$3.0 million, would be awarded through ICB in accordance with
Bank's guidelines for procurement. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$3.0 million, or packages having a combined cost below this threshold,
would be awarded following LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank, which
are, in any case, open to foreign bidders. ICB procedures and bid
documentation were reviewed during preparation, and appropriate amendments to
meet Bank retluirements were agreed at negotiations.



- 21 -
4.08      The maintenance equipment procurement program (for a CIF cost of
about US$33.6 million including contingencies), indicating estimated cost and
lot size, would be subject to Bank approval and would be carried out through
ICB procedures according to Bank guidelines. Similar items would be grouped
to the extent possible for bidding purposes. Maintenance spare parts (US$5.2
million) and equipment under the training program (US$0.8 million) will be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three eligible suppliers.  Agreement was
reached at negotiations on the following: (i) requirements of local agents
or prior registration of bidders will not apply; (ii) no provision regarding
minimum number of bidders will apply; (iii) bids for goods will be evaluated
on a CIF basis with freight costs quoted freely by each bidder; and
(iv) awards will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder. Sample bidding
documents were reviewed during preparation, and appropriate amendments to
meet Bank requirements were agreed at negotiations.
4.09      Prequalification of Contractors.  For civil works contracts to be
awarded under LCB procedures, prequalification of contractors would be based
upon MOPT's permanent register of contractors, which was reviewed along tne
lines of recommendations by the Bank appraisal mission (Annex 4 para 7e).
Foreign contractors would be permitted to register individually or in joint
venture with local firms. No prequalification would be required for civil
works contracts to be awarded under ICB procedures. The prequalification
procedures were confirmed at negotiations.
4.10      Tender Process and Bank Review of Contracts.  Once a subproject has
been declared eligible, MOPT would prepare the engineerinig, tender documents
and final cost estimates, open and evaluate bids, and prepare award
recommendations. However, if the data supplied in the original Basic Data
Sheet (BDS) change essentially during the detailed engineering stage of the
subproject, causing the coat to increase by more than 20% or the estimated
rate of return to decrease below the 12% threshoLd, MOPT would send a revised
form to the Bank for its confirmation prior to inviting tenders. The time
allowed for pr.2paration of bids would be 45 days for LCB and 60 days for
ICB.  The procedures leading to acceptance by the Bank of civil works
contracts for financing, as agreed at negotiations, would be as follows:
(a)  proposed civil works contracts with a nominal value of US$3.0
million equivalent or more representing about 17 percent of the
total of contracts would be subject to prior Bank approval. MOPT
would send to the Bank the tender documents, including information
on advertisewent, the evaluation of tenders, and the award
recommendation. After obtaining the agreement of the Bank, MOPT
would send to the Bank two copies of the legalized contract;
(b)  prior Bank review would not be required for civil works contracts
with a nominal value of less than US$3.0 million equivalent. After
completion of the contracting process, MOPT would send to the Bank
two copies of the tender documents, the evaluation and award of
tenders and the legalized contract. The Bank would have the right
to reject the contract if agreed tender procedures were not
followed, and to cancel --he related loan amount. In case a



- 22 -
higher-than-expected tend r amount would make the project
economically not feasible, MOPT and the Bank would review the
possibility of lowering the design standard of the subproject.
4.11      For equipment procurement, the threshold for prior review by the
Bank would be US$1.0 million, representing 75% of the total of contracts,
4.12      Consultant Services for technical assistance and studies would be
^ontracted in accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines (August 1981),
allowing free and independent participation of foreign consultants. Terms of
reference and short lists of qualified firms would be submitted for the prior
approval of the Bank. Subsequently, the evaluation of proposals and the
recommendation 2or selection of a firm, as well as the related draft contract
would also be submitted for prior review and approval by the Bank.
Concerning local consultant services for supervision of studies and of civil
works, the Bank would review ex ante the standard terms of reference and form
of contract.  MOPT would then proceed with selection and contracting
following local procedures, which are satisfactory, and would send to the
Bank copies of signed contracts for all s,ibprojects financed undar the loan.
These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
D.   Disbursement, Special Account and Audits
4.13      The Bank would disburse:  (a) 42% of total expenditures for road
civil works contracts and supervision services for highway improvements and
road safety4/; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported maintenance
equipment and spare parts and 90% of local expenditures for locally produced
maintenance equipment and spare parts; (c) 10J% of foreign expenditures for
expatriate consultants and 30% of total expenditures for local consultants
under technical assistance; and (d) 71% of expenditures for the training
component.51' The allocation of loan proceeds for the various loan
categories is shown in Table 4.2.
4.14      Retroactive financing is recommended for payments under the project
made after January 1, 1987 but before the date of loan signature, up to a
total of US$5.0 million.
4.15      A Special Account would be established in Banco de la Republica
with an initial deposit of US$9.0 million (this figure represents
approximately 4 months of Bank financed expenditures). MOPT would be
entitled to make payments irom the Special Account for the Bank's financed
portion of all expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Account would be submitted on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs)
for expenditures under contracts for civil works whose value is the
equivaleut of US$200,000 or less, foreign expenditures under contracts whose
value is the equivalent of US$50,000 or less and consultant services and
training for claims under contracts valued at the equivalent of US$20,000 or
less. At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
terms and conditions for the Special Account, including implementation of
internal controls for the management of the account.
4/  For new road civil works contracts, the Bank would disburse 100% for
advance payments (20% of total contract cost) and 28% thereof, such that
the average percentage of disbursement (42%) is maintained.
5/  The Bank would disburse 100% for scholarships abroad and 65% for
remaining expenditures, such that the average percentage of disbursement
(71%) is maintained.



- 23 -
4.16      The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan, based on
the assumption that the loan would become effective by August, 1987, is shown
in Table 4.3. The schedule is in line with the standard disbursement profile
for highway projects in Colombia, and full disbursement of loan funds is
expected by mid-FY94.
4.17      In preparing the proposed Project, the accounting and internal
control systems were reviewed and some improvements have been implemented as
reviewed in Annex 15. Under the Action Plan, agreed during negotiations,
MOPT's Accounting and Auditing Manuals as well as a computerized accounting
system would be fully operational by December 1988 (paras 3.14 and 3.15).
These actions would be in line with the recommendations of the 1985 audit
report for the ongoing Highway Sector Project.
4.18      Under tte project, the Bank would require, from the Borrower, two
types of audits: an annual audit of the Special Account in Banco de la
Republica; and an annual audit of the accounts of FVN including a separate
opinion as to the reliability of the SOEs to support claims for disbursements
from the Bank loan, and the adequacy of the associated internal controls.
FVN would forward copies of the financial statements and of the audit report
to the Bank, no later than six months after the close of the first fiscal
year; five months after the close of the second and four months after the
close of the third and subsequent fiscal years. This time table would permit
HOPT to implement the accounting manuals and the computerized system
mentioned above. During negotiations it was agreed that the Comptroller
General of the Republic would prepare these audits.
E.   Semi-Annual Consultations and Project Monitoring
4.19      With regard to project monitoring, agreement was reached with the
Government during negotiations that it would prepare quarterly reports to the
Bank providing: the listing of eligible subprojects; the listing of
contracts related to eligible subprojects; the progress of execution of
Bank-financed subprojects; the status of disbursement requests and of
withdrawals from the Special Account; and the schedule of estimated
withdrawals of the proceeds of the loan.
4.20      Furthermore, in order to monitor progress of MOPT's pluriannual
program and related Action Plan, agreement was reached with the Government,
at negotiations, that it would, at least semi-annually, meet with
representatives of the Bank and that it would provide information in
accordance with the following scope and schedule, and any other reports as
the Bank may reasonably request from time-to-time:
(a) By March 31 of each year, MOPT and the Bank would review:
-    Compliance with the Action Plan and Program Targets during
previous year (Annexes 12 and 13);
-    expenditure level in the implementation of the investment and
maintenance program during previous year, and sources of
funding, including Government and financing under the loan;



- 24 -
-    level of completion dr'ring previous yi,ar of subprojects in
NOPT's Program;
-    summary of financial status of FVN at the end of previous
year; and
-    composition and status of portfolio of subprojects with
financing under the loan including the various steps of
preparation or implementation.
(b) By September 30 of each year, MOPT would provide information on:
-    proposed update of actions and targets included in the Action
Plan;
-    proposed update of pluriannual expenditure program, in
financial and physical terms;
-    financial forecast for FVN for the upcoming year; and
-    status of selection and execution of Bank-financed
subprojects.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) sector development letter (para 2.18);
(b) annual review of MOPT's highway expenditure and funding program, in
accordance with policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, and additional provision of Government funding for the
program in a specific fiscal year, to offset any shortfall in the
previous year (para 3.06);
(c) specific pre-feasibility studies for additional candidate
subprojects for the new construction program to be submited to Bank
review, and in no case investment proposals yielding an estimated
ERR below 12% be considered (para 3.07);
(d)  additional rehabilitation, maintenance and paving candidate
subprojects to be selected io the context of a balanced investment
strategy and in no case yielding an estimated ERR below 12% each
(para 3.09);
(e) MOPT's Action Plan and a satisfactory annual review of its
implementation, and of Program Targets, to be a requirement for
continuing disbursements under the loan (para 3.15);



- 25 -
(f) the Government to provide adequate funding to complete all
subprojects financed under the loan (para 4.01);
(g)  evaluation criteria for subprojects (para 4.03);
(h) procedures and bid documentation for civil works (pare 4.07);
(i)  procedures and tender documents for equipment (para 4.08);
(j)  contractors' prequalification procedures (para 4.09);
(k)  procedures for Bank acceptance of contracts for financing
(para 4.10);
(1)  arrangements for contracting of consultant services (para 4.12);
(a)  terms and conditions for the Special Account (pars 4.15);
(n)  auditing procedures for the Special Account and FVN; (para 4.18);
(o)  submission of periodic reports to the Bank for project monitoring
(para 4.19); and
(p)  semi-annual meetings with the Bank and appropriate reports as
requested by the Bank on project execution and implementation of
the Action Plan (para 4.20).
5.02      Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$180.3 million. The terms would be 17 years,
including a four-year grace period.
May 13, 1987



NATONAL WICIWAS SICTOK PROJNCT
¢olm   Road Netwrk (198)
(Estimated Leangth, M)
Primary                Secondary and Rural Roads                   TOTAL
Paved    Unpaved    TPaved        aved    UnpTotal    otal        Paved    Unpaved    Total
National 1/         9,617      1,383    11,000         -        14,933   14,933       9,617      16,316   25,933
Departmental 2/       -          -         -          636       52,488   53,124         636      52,488   53,124
FNCV 3/               -          -         -           -        25,049   25,049         -        25,049   25,049
TOTAL             9,617      1,383    11,000        636       92,470   93,106      10,253      93,853  104,106
1/ August 1986
2/ Estimate, includes private roads.
3/ Updated
Source: MOPT
October 1986
*                                                                S



- 27 -
TABLE 2.2
OOLON,IA
an  MATICI L HI4MVS $W,  UOJBCT
Tramsrt 8sam          for frelght and fPasenerS (1g91-1985) 11
(froight In oII ton o-km and p_eum Inr fI mIlIion peassngsr4lw)
Freight                                                Passengers
Year    Road    Rail    River  Shipping  Pipelilne   Air    Total           Road    Rail   River    Air    Total
1975   13,824   1,139   2,400    2,398        n.*.       30    19,791    15,418    523         52    2,870   18,863
1976   14,461   1,159   1,609    2,535    nfa.           37    19,801    16,442    511         52    3,181   20,186
t977   15,158   1,215   1,820    2,650        n.a.       43    20,886    17,375    392         33    3,649   21,449
1978   16,507   1,232   1,402    2,195        n.a         52    21,388    17,998    342        38    4,048   22,426
1979   17,332   1,105   1,166    1,584        n.e.       40    21,227    18,671    322         59    4,488   23,540
1980   18,025      882   1,287    1,384        1,173     48    22,799    19,958    315         57    4,354   24,517
1981   20,816      641   ,.140    1,339        1,327     48    25,311      19,414    230       69    4,804   24,517
1982   22,321      562   1,287    1,132        1,172      52    26,526    20,343    156        79    5,392   25,970
1983   21,485      665   1,140    1,319        1,433     55    26,097    20,530    175         82    4,946   25,733
1984   22,130      745   1,287    1,385        1,724      56    27,327    20,515    193        87    4,721   25,51C
1985   22,793      774   1,382    1,176        3,847      58    30,030    20,900    230    120    4,653   25,903
Modal-Shares( %)
1975     69.8      5.8    12.1       12.1   n.a.        0.2      100.0       81.7    2.8    0.3       15.2    100.0
1980     79.1      3.9      5,6       6.1   5.1         0.2      100.0       80.9    1.3    0.2       17.6    100.0
1985     75.9      2.6      4.6       3.9   12.8        0.2      100.0       80.7    0.9    0.5       18.0    100.0
Growth-rateC%)
1975-1980    5.5    (5.0)  (11.7)   (10.4)  n.a.            9.9        2.9        5.3   (9.6)  (1.9)       8.7       5.5
1980-1985    4.8    (2.6)    1.4        (3.2)  26.8         3.9        5.7       0.9   (6.1)  16.0         1.3       1.0
1975-1985    5.1    (3.8)   (5.4)    (6.9)  na..            6.8        4.3        3.1   (7.9)   8.7        5.0       3.2
1,  Inter-reglonal transport
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 28 -                              TABLE 2.3
CODIAIA
WECA=  NATONAL UIGIIYS SECTR PROJECT
Public Exgpwditure and Vundlug ln Transport (1982-1986)
(ia d illo Col$, at did-1966 priceO!/
1982       1983        1984       1985        1986
APPLICATION OF FUNDS          120,276    120,176    124,871    123,636    129,815
Non-recurrent                       56x207     52,367      58,234     67,707      66,973
MOPT, of which                   41,091      38,482      38,404     43,048      36,910
Highways                       37,185      34,495      32,206     37,747      32,436
Inland Waterways                4,006       3,987      6,198       5,301       4,474
Aviation (FAN/DMC)                10,339      8,720       9,077      8,149       4,549
Rural Roads (FNCV)                 2,800      3,134       7,166      6,911       9,003
Railways (FNC)                       605      1,231         768      1,604       6,134
Ports (COLPUERTOS)                  806         576       2,082      6,470 2/   9,768 2/
Transport Services (INTRA)           466        224         737      1,525         609
Recurrent                           56,647     54,473      52,848     46,719      49,567
MOPT                              12,239     13,200      12,365     11,307      13,796
Aviation (FAN/DAAC)               3,764       3,820       3,714      4,485       3,987
Rural Roads (FNCV)                   844      1,098       1,238      1,344       1,195
Railways (FNC)                   13,173      13,586      14,101      9,472       9,715
Ports (COLPUERTOS)               25,354      21,629      20,267     18,570      19,554
Transport Services (INTRA)         1,273      1,140       1,163       1,541      1,320
Debt Service                        4,167       7,433      12,854      9,210      13,275
Domestic                            878       2,599        n.a.      2,123       2,333
Foreign                           3,289       4,834        n.a.      7,087      10,942
Reserves                             3,255      5,903         935        -          -
SOURCES OF FUNDS              120,276    120,176    124,871    123,636    129,815
=    m         =    ..                -     ..-   I.   
Fuel Taxes'                         38,926     41,631      46,563     46,077      46,107
Own Revenues                       42,822      42,212      42,389     41,073      39,935
Government Appropriations           14,007     17,649      12,335      15,957     14,253
Others                               2,433      2,431       3,878      5,122       6,452
Domestic Credit                      2,761      3,183       7,571      2,056       4,659
Foreign Credit, of which            11,986     10,284      10,067     13,351      18,409
IBRD                             3,957       6,084      6,652      10,118      12,918
Others                           8,029       4,200       3,415      3,233       5,491
Deficit 3/                           7,341      2,786       2,068        -           -
1/ Exchange rate: US$1 - Col$ 193.8
2/ Including financial investments.
3/ FNCV's cash deficit (carry-over).
Source: DNP and Transport Sector Strategy Paper
October 1986



- 29 -
TABLE 2.4
WCOJNIA
NAOMP EATICOIW  HICEVAY  8BCTOl PROJECT
Price 8&rveture Of Petiroeum A    .tive Fuels (Jun. 1986) 1/
(in UF0,gallon)I/
Regular 3/    Premium 4/    Diesel
Gasoline      Gasoline       Oil
Realization Price (ECOPETROL) 5/            0.34          0.40          0.36
Wholesaler's Margin                    0.01          0.02          0.02
Retailer's Margin                      0.02          0.03          0.03
Distribution Margins                        0.03          0.05          0.05
National Highway Fund Tax              0.13          0.13          0.13
Other Taxes                            0.05          0.05          0.01
Taxes                                       0.18          0.18          0.14
Retail Price                                0.55          0.63          0.55
-        -
International Price 6/                      0.37 7/       0.43 7/       0.39
--
1/ Domestic retail prices were kept at the same level during the January to
December 1986 period, despite exchange rate adjustments; accordingly
they were converted to US$ at the mid-period exchange rate.
2, Exchange rate: US$1 - Col$193.8.
3/ 80 RON gasoline (RON = Research Octane N'.mber)
4/ 92 RON gasoline.
5/ Including an estimated US$0.05 for transport.
6/ f.o.b. Colombia, June 1986.
7| Based on 95 RON gasoline, adjusted for octane difference at the rate of
US$2 per octane and metric ton,
Source: Mission Estimates, based on ECOPETROL
October 1986



- 30 -
TABLE 2.5
COLONBIA
SECOND  ATIONL HGHAS SECTOR PROJECT
a"ene from Taxes Levied on Usmes of the National NiLvay Network
and JIP    hAL    E enituwes (1966) 1/
(in million C0l*$ at mid-1986 prics)2.X
Revenues 3/
Fuel Taxes                       16,822
Value Added Tax                  13,408
Tolls                             5,910
Stamp Tax                         5,238
Others                            5,755
Total Revenues               47,133
MOPT Highway Expenditures
Operating4/                      36,827
Others5/                          9,404
Debt-Service                      6,503
Total Expenditures           52,734
IS  From specific user taxes, i.e., from tax revenues levied on road users
over and above the general taxation level in the economy.
2/  Exchange rate:  US$1 - Col$193.8
3/  Allocated on an average annual mileage basis.
4/  Including rehabilitation, paving, maintenance, equipment, safety and a
related proportion of studies and administration.
5/  Including new construction and a related proportion of studies and
administratlon.
Source: MOPT and Mission Estimates
October 1986



- 31 -
TABLE 26
SUOOD NATIONAL HIGHIAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Lnstred MlTru and Fleet Composition (1983-1985)
1 1/                    2/              3/
Year          Total    Up to 5 ton   5-12 ton    12-22 ton    Over 22 ton
1983         1089355       60,708       38,090         4,657          4,900
1984         109,756       61,012       38,958         4,765          5,021
1985         111,603       62,244       39,494         4,765          5,100
Distribution (%)
(1985)             100          56           35             4              5
Increase (Z)
(1983-1985)            3            3           4             2              4
i/ Two-axle trucks.
2/ Three- and four-axle trucks.
2/ Truck combinations.
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 32 -
TABLE 3.1
PAID NIVKWAU 830101 PUOJECT
Nn%Asl Ualwv Netwoik j197O-1986
Yer           Paved        Unpated 1/    Total         Z Paved
1970          4,821        15,094        19,915           24
1971          5,023        14,994        20,017           25
1972          5,957        14,319        20,276           29
1973          69446        13,962        20,408           32
1974          6,856        13,987        20,843           33
1975          7,328        13,936        21,264           34
1976          79344        14,494        21,838           34
1977          7,516        14,752        22,268           34
1978          7,737        14,815        22,552           34
1979          7,856        14,901        22,757           36
1980          8,203        14,714        22,917           36
1981          8,616        14,757        23,373           37
1982          8,946        14,874        239820           37
1983          9,168        15,304        24,472           37
1984          9,448        15,802        25,250           37
198S          9,599        15,983        25,582           37
1986          9,617        16,316        25,933           37
Includes departmental rofads incorporated each year into the National
network.
ouces s NOPT
October 1986



- 33 -
TABLE 3.2
iwPage1of2
" _1a 0, d"Ie    I   ,    Me   "es    I1"
us  ist      u.s      urn      106   Cu         urs      un        si      un       ts
Applltetl of Frd                3,3$4 56,40.  a6,6        "     a 65,13411.6  68.  72, 67.W   7n,4   74,413,  W,13.4  77,52.4
3.0134  ba".4    54.4 51    N            1  46.14   W         1  545.7  SPA4  a1.1  "310.7
lewee~at                    3 ! 1    7451Fj 41a.3  ll al    X3.27  41,662*  4.$0  3.16   3.77  4O,569
1w  eaetatlU               s1.2n2   s1,s41.I  5,43.4  6,067.s  18,1I0.5  6,0474.   6,03.1   60Q.4   60     7,0a.1  6,15
Pam5q                           2   6*0 71*13J   6l.le.   71124   9,110*7   9*017* , 944    0.13.7  Os*89 8,43.7  8*,1e4
Rsimbllitttlom, of h %mob.o  11,574.4  15,354 0s.6  ,*U.7  S,IdN.s   %91.3  *S#e   11*MA  101o1.A 102
Paed babd                12,7 I6.011,1744  uS31,   6,35.611  7,36.7  7*W*7  7,42.   7*,3542  7.603  8.102,   S,66.
ove R                      -        -        -        -        -      u 1s1.0   21MS      1.   z,m1      ,or.1   13I
Perudlo IIlt1_m Of thleb   7,665.7  60614  11*1.*7  71,6167   7,66      7,67   0.M4   9,6.   10#,32   1I13S  12,14.1
Foe Deae                  ud.      i.e      i.e      us.     410 4,36.   446    5 4   5,14 53.                     ,1.
Catreeti.e.                        m,a.                      5018.0  S*X55    1.4U      4,4S4   41.A  S*3*9 6.0 6,149
Eqipsat                    5,31.       51   204 1,16.6  1,1   2.1.7    3               414   11731A   610A    6101S
bed ba1ty                    13.4A    1141, l54         13.6a   511.1 71146       746      7464 Mol  7465    746*5    7464
Tcetaiq                      -         2.s     UI.     13.0   1mu        1164    t1.t1    471       40.1     4161     1.1a
StudIo,                      7104   1,42.0   13013   2,404   1,6A         W,t74   13.   1,4   1 45    1,43.5   1,3S6
FerA_ Met                   $a*S      3d.    Ad.       ie.    6 s   6,461    7.6    7746    024   6 .   9044
sttaoted                    Rae  t .e         IA.      PAO      6124    711469 66A         66.5  Iowa   1.5154   1,1.4
Audaldntlm                   4A    4E         *41121 42J        5*1 5J Se9 t e             1Pj0   4!  ,   O  41O3.0  4,000*
GUtW W"!e mILWo               6     14     .0 6.J66.O 4               J   4316.2    4.16, 40     .   1147.1    .5. I  5474
Do"t SetM                     2e       2,01.9   1 .34   7.    .!aE    15.6   12L3*4 11116711 *3LLOA   tE              a
$u"  of Fab                     3,5.   3,406.1  0,364    ,34t  8    7,10.6  66180.2  72,W#3  73,514  74,45.  7,14.4  77.052.4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _goa _anom  effm                            ~       ommw
Pol Tax buwso                566l6?e?  41.13411   462.1  40,14  42,5607  4,2         ,8240  47   .4 6,564Yte 51,47     ,7.6
bed Tolle                     2,31.7  531     51111     6,510.0   3,524 0,51A  11,134  12160.s1  12,914.0  13,674  147115.2
Otbe Go be                    1,256.:t 1t6*O   1*715e4   1901142  4*11.2  1,2    1,3I95     I,304   1,4   151.*4   15A74
Os_woot $olattm               1100104  1. 74   I          85*0    S"6       8177    1,5    661Me       036    0.3    3,4
Ommotl Chodt                     9.1   1,140.1  1,513.8  20,134    11163.6    6.1    134      6.9    0wo        515.5    8?
fovoIp *0411,46 ebleb         8,80.4  6,066.1114  10,#711.4  6 S,3           1,1117.2     ,.  12,^     10,61J ,1,1514   6,0414   5,304
blotlq                       6,15.4   13,Ml  15,11S   10,7114   7,073             1,714    1,0144     -        -
NW                                                                         I      Is$*$-  -  -  -  -  96.   2,   2,7474   ,353  3547*7   2,419*7
psed  10                               -   -             -      1,awI    6,62   67604  6,7101   6,1I3    4,565S    5,130.2
~,151 5-165 eual* toW ad urn Gwen*d 15043 pftopd,
soum inT
April 10      _1



- 34 -
TABLE 3.2
Page  2 of 2
StOOP SATPML I4IAYS SWMrc  FOJWT
NU s Ph'rlu an          miur   and Fundise Prosra
41997ffS, on glnal 15$ 0ili@nP l    2
1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992     1993         a-198
Application of Funds                      306.5      308.7     338.9      344.4    357.5    379.2    397.3       2,432.5
Highways                               229A6     225.1      256.9      256.8    256.1    272.6    289.3       1 j786*4
Investment                          174.9      168*6      195.6     191,9    187.9    198.3    209.3        1,326.5
New Construction                    46,1      29.7       42.0      38.1      31.0      35*3     31*8        254*0
Paving                              45.0      42.9       44.1      43.9      43.2     42.i      42.7        303.9
Rahabilitation, of which            33.1      38.1       44.3       44.1     46.9      50.7     56.4        313*6
Paved Roads                       33.1      33.1       34*6      34.3      36.9     40.3      44.3       256.6
r cvel Roads                       -         5.0        9. 7      9.8      10.0      10.4     12.1         57.0
Periodic Maintenance, of which    36.1        35.1       38.6      45,3      50*4     55.9      63.6        325,0
Force Account                     19.4      1968       22.7      24,4      26*5     29.3      32.3        174.4
Contracted                        16.7      15.3       15.9      20*9      23.9     26.6      31*3        150*6
Equipment                            5.8      12*6       16.6       9.9       5.6      3.1       3.2         56.8
Road Safety                          2.3       3.4        3.5        3,5      3.6       3.7      3*9         23*9
Training                             0.7       0.9        0.5       0.2       0*2       0.2      0.1          2.8
Studies                              5.8       5.9        6.0       6.9       7.0       7.3      7.6         46.5
Routine Maintenance, of whlch         32.0      33.3       38.0       41.3     4_52      50.4     56.3        296.5
Force Account                       29.2      29.8       34.0       36.6     39*7      43*9     48.5        261.7
Contracted                           2.8       3.5        4.0        4.7      5.5       6*5      7.8         34.8
Administration                        22.7      23.2       23.3       23.6     23.0      23.9     23.7        163.4
Other non-highways                      16.2      20.3       21.5       23.1     24.7      26.9     29.3        162*0
Debt Service                            60.7      63.3       60.5       64.5     76.7      79.7     78.7        484.1
Sources of Funds                          306.5      308.7     338.9      344*4    357.5    379.2    397.3       2,432.5
Fuel Tax Revenues                      192.9     204.5      214.7      225.4    238.9    257.6    277.5       1,611.5
Road Tolls                              44.7      48*7       52*6       56.9     62.0      68.8     76*2        409*9
Other Own Revenues                      21,7        5.8   *  6.0         6.1      6.4       6.1      7.1         59.8
Government Appropriations                4.1       3*8        3*5        3*3      3.3       3*2      2*8         24*0
Doeaitic Credit                          4.4        3.8       3*5        3.3      3.1       2.9      2.7         23.7
Foreign Credit, of which                38.7      42.1       58.6       49*4     43.8      40.0     31*0        303.6
Existing                              32.1       7*2        8.0       4*8       -         -        -           52.1
New                                    -         4.3        9.8       12,9     14.4      17.3     12,5         71*2
Proposed IBRD Loan                     6.6      30.6       40.8       31*7     29.4      22.7     18.5        180.3
I/ Price increases for both local and foreign expenditures were estimated at 3% for 1987, 1% for 1988 to 1990 and
3.5 S for 1991-1993*
Souroes MOPT
Aprll 1987



- 35 -
TABLE 3.3
COLOMBIA
SWC0D NATIONAL HIGI6AS SECTOR PRJEC
9wiamr  of              HlRbwav H n alwtenwnc  and PMg  tm  StradftM
Traffic
Levels       Below         100-        250-          1,000-        2,000-        Above
(AADT)      100          250         1,000        2,000          5,000         5,000
Surface/
Condition
Good
Llght Overlays2/
Paved    Fair             N.A.
Poor                              ThIck        _
Overlays2/               Rehabilitatlon
Unpaved          BIading   Regrave Ing            PavIn 3/                      NA.
i/ 40-50 m  asphalt concret overlays, appiled with a frequency Increasing with traffic levels.
/ 70-80  mn asphalt concrete overlays.
_ Paving threshold may be as low as 200 MADT, depending on traffic compositlon and
Investment costs.
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 36 -
TABLE 3,4
0W3O1A
SIOI UAIOW  UIG&S SIIPRJ
LUU.&sent and Spar Parts to be Vlaa.ced Under the Loam
(CIP Cost In US  t
Unit
Qua!ntity     Cost         Total
A.   Maintenance Equipment
Light Vehicles 500 and 1,000 kgs                300          10.5          3,150
Bulldozers, 150 H.P.                             15         110.0          1,650
Bulldozers, 300 H.P.                              5         200.0          1,000
Front-end Loaders, 2.5 cu. m.                    S0          70.0          3,500
Back-hoes, 0.25 cu. m.                           30          50.0          1,500
Self-propelled Tire Rollers, 12 tons             10          40.0            400
Cold Mix Asphalt Plants                           6         200.0          1,200
Semi-trailers with Asphalt Tanks                  8          25.0            200
Boring Equipment                                  2          80.0            160
Mobile Platforms for Bridge Maintenance           2         440.0            880
Subtotal:          13,640
Spare Parts                                                                1,360
Total:             15,000
B.   Spare Parts
For Caterpillar Tractors (mainly tracks)                                   1,500
For Champion Motorgraders                                                    800
For Mitsubishi Motorgraders                                                  500
For International Equipment                                                1,000
For Ford Dump-Trucks                                                         200
For Chevrolet Dump-Trucks                                                    300
For Isuzu Dump-Trucks                                                        700
Total:              5,000
C,   Weighing Scales
Dynamic Weighing Equipment
for Five Vehicle Weight Stations                    Global:              2,000
D.   Communications Equipment
Interconnection Among Bogota and A]l
Districts Through TELECOM, Radio
Communication from the Districts to
the Field, Internal System for MOPT
Headquarters                                        Global:             10,000
Total Base Cost 1/                                                        32,000 
Price Contingencies                                                        1,600
MAL CM                                                                    33,600
1/ In February 1987 prices.
Source: MOPT
April 1987



- 37 -
TABLE 4.1
COLOWIA
SECO# NATIONAL NIGKNWYS SECTORt PjOECS
rng Hpigoy SSbrolects EligIble for Bank Financina
Percentage1/ Number       Cost.!
AADT      ERR   Length Completed        of      (In nominal
(vehicles)   (%)    (km)  (Dhyslcal)  Contracts USS million)
A.  Initlated with Financing under Loan 2121.CO                                                        63.7
Rehabilitatlon (Paved Roads)                                                                    28.6
La Ye-Cerreto                            1,731       77      168       18          4           9.0
Puerto Valdivla-Planeta Rice              1,483     116      170       49          2           4.0
Bucaramanga-Pamplona                        860      21      123       67          2           3.8
Olba-Pledecuesta                         2,226      104       19       48          1           0.9
TunJa-Vado Real                          2,311      101      104       81          1           O.S
La Pesa-Girardot                           915       30      70        61          2           2.6
Nelva-Pitalito                           1,795       40      187       69          2           7.7
Chinchina-La Manuela                     4,000      noa.1    9         94          1           0.1
Pavino                                                                                         5351
Basconia-Plato                              627      49      112       27          1           6.7
Carmen-Zambrano                             583      50       41       28          1           0.9
Chtriguana-BecernuI y San Roque             482      40       63       45          1           2.5
Chinacota-Toledo                            256      21       32        19         1           1.8
Barbosa-Clsneros                           382       59       42        9          1           2.7
La Uhilon-Sonson                           447      154       55       14          2           2.4
Tres Puertas-La Fellsa                      280      27       42       59          1           0.9
Puente Boyaca-El Inflerno                  218       21       21       27          1           0.9
Guasca-Gacheta                             421       44       50       27          1           1.0
Cumanal-Rlo Hu.ea                           472      41       31        6                      1.0
Cambaeo-T de Viani                          233      13       45       36          1           2.7
Armero-Falan                               222      n.a.3/   35        40          1           0.1
LIbanow-urillo                             253      n.s.    24         69          1           0.7
Castilla-Coysima                           362       53       17       69          1           0.2
Florlda-Santander                          464       24       53       49          1           2.5
Popoyan-Patico                             345       17       17       52          1           0.5
La Verbena-El Diviso                       329       13      96        26          2           6.17
Ipiales-Gualmaten                          584       36      22        45          1          0.9
S.  Initiated with FVN's Own-Funds                                                                     20,3
Rehabilltation                                                                                  13.6
Monterla-Aeropuerto                      4,696       88       13        9          1           2.8
Saldana-Espinal                          3,192      118       30       10          1           2.9
Calamar (El Tigre)-Carreto                 691       32       24        7          1           2.5
Rlo Nochi-Puerto Valdivia                1,126       61       60        5          1           2.3
TunJa-VIlla de Leyva                       774       21       38       30          1           2.0
Puerto Colombia-Santa Veronica             815       48       11       22          1           1.1
Paving                                                                                           6.7
Granada-San Juan de Arams                  832       79       30        2          1           1.3
Rio Nelva-Algeciras                        471       20       20       22          2           1.7
Chlqulnquira-Puent. Otero                  732       56       15       13          1           1.4
Chitaga-La Lej3a                           257       74       36        9          1           2.3
I/  Estimated as of 1987 for subprojects under A, and as of 1986 for subprojects under B.
'/  Investments required for subproJect completion.
3/ Emergency works for the Nevado del Ruiz; feasibility studies not required.
Source:  MOPT
April 1987



- 38 -
TABLE 4.2
COLOMBIA
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
Expressed in          Expenditures
Loan Category                                        Dollar Equivalent           Financed
Mi) Highway Improvements, Road Safety,
and Supervision '/                               132,700,000                  42%
(ii) Maintenance Equipment and Spare Parts                32,000,000         100% of foreign
--  -- -          90% of local
(iii) Consultant Services for Technical                     2,000,000         100% of foreign
Assistance                                                             30% of local
(iv) Training 2/                                           1,500,000                 71%
(v) Unallocated                                          12,100,000
TOTAL                                           180,300,000
/  For new road civil works contracts, the Bank would disburse 100% of advance payments
(20% of total contract cost), and 28% thereof, such that the average percentage of
disbursement (42%) is maintained.
2/ The Bank would disburse 100% for scholarships abroad and 65% for remaining expenditures
such that the average percentage of disbursement (71%) is maintained.
Source: Mission Estimates
April 1987



- 39 -
TABLE 4.3
CWI-IA
.ECon  NATIONL HGWAmys SECTOR Paw=EC
Lotlated Schbdule of Disburemsuts
Disbursed In           Cuiulative
1 jart e      nT        Disbwruemts            Z
1988
September 30, 1987             14.0 1/                     14.0             8
December 31, 1987               1.6                        15.6             9
March 31, 1988                  7.7                        23.3            13
June 30, 1988                   7.7       31.0             31.0            17
1989
September 30, 1988              7.6                        38.6            21
December 31, 1988               7.6                        46.2            26
March 31, 1989                 10.2                        56.4            31
June 30, 1989                  10.2       35.6             66.6            37
1990
September 30, 1989             10.2                        76.8            43
December 31, 1989              10.2                        87.0            48
March 31, 1990                  7.9                        94.9            53
June 30, 1990                   7.9       36.2            102.8            57
1991
September 30, 1990              7.9                       110.7            61
December 31, 1990               8.0                       118.7            66
March 31, 1991                  7.3                       126.0            70
June 30, 1991                   7.3       30.5            133.3            74
1992
September 30, 1991              7.4                       140.7            78
December 31, 1991               7.4                       148.1            82
March 31, 1992                  5.6                       153.7            85
June 30, 1992                   5.7       26.1            159.4            88
1993
September 30, 1992              5.7                       165.1            92
December 31, 1992               5.7                       170.8            95
March 31, 1993                  4.7                       175.5            97
June 30, 1993                   3.6       19.7            179.1            99
1994
September 30, 1993              0.6                       179.7            99
December 31, 1993               0.6        1.2            180.3           100
Assumetions
Loan Signing Date: July 1987
Loan Effectiveness: Aug,zst 1987
Project Completion:  June 30, 1993
Loan Closing Date: December 31, 1993
1/ Including initial deposit of US$9.0 million into Special Account.
Source: Mission Estimates
April 1987



- 40 -
ANNX 1
Page 1 of 6
j,EON RAIOALHIGHWTS SECTOR PROJEC
Transort Sector Background
A. Introduction
1.        The development pattern of Colombia's transport sector has been
datermined largely by the difficult physical characteristics of the country.
Large investments in transport infrastructure were undertaken during the
1950-1980 period to connect the country's main ports with the major
production and consumption centers, deep in the interior, and to integrate
the domestic market. During that period, transport contribution to GDP grew
at an annual rate of about 6.1%, compared to 5.2% for total GDP. However,
during the 1980-1985 period, the pace of growth of the transport component of
GDP declined to some 2.5% p.a. in line with the registered growth rate for
total GDP; the sector currently contributes some d% to GDP. Throughout the
1960s, while transport was in its period of most intense development, the
sector accounted for up to 60% of public sector investment, but its share
gradually declined to 25% in the 1970s and to 14% in 1985e Despite
considerable efforts to improve the basic infrastructure, ,ransport charges
still account for a high proportion of the final price of several
commodities. The natural disadvantages of the country, combined with low
operating efficiency, led to transport remaining a major development
constraint. Summary indicators for the transport sector are presented in
Table 1 of this Annex.
B. Transport Management
2.        Transport management in Colombia falls primarily under the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) (Chart 1), with the major exceptions of
secondary roads, under Departmental jurisdiction, and of aviation, under the
Administrative Department of Civil Aviation (DAMC). In addition, MOPT is
directly entrusted with the construction and maintenance of the country's
national highway network (Annex 3). Other subsector operations and planning
are delegated to several parastatals and autonomous agencies, including: the
Colombian Port Authority (COLPUERTOS), which runs the public ports; the
Colombian National Railways (FNC), which is in charge of the country's
railways; FNCV which is responsible for rural roads development; and the
National Institute of Transport (INTRA), mostly in charge of road transport
regulation and enforcement. The Minister of MOPT is assisted in his
coordinating functions by a National Transport Council, comprising
representatives of all relevant public agencies and also of the private
sector. MOPT's Sector Planning Office is responsible for the periodic
preparation of the National Transport Plan in accordance with the broader
goals established in the National Development Plan, formulated by the
National Planning Department (DNP) for each administrations's term-in-office
(Annex 2). Traditionally, transport plans have been limited to a
consolidation of investment proposals of the different subsector agencies
and, as such, have not been responsive to changing macroeconomic conditions.



- 41-                            ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
The present administration, which took office on August 14, 1986, is
committed to a more strategic plan formulation, which will also take into
account pricing, re&lation and sector funding considerations.
C.   Port Charges and Productivity
3.        After a period of nearly endemic operating losses, COLPUERTOS
started generating operating profits in 1983. This is mainly the outcome of
successful negotiations with the politically powerful labor unions, which led
to a reduction in personnel costs of about 31%, in real terms, in 1983.
However, overall port productivity remained low when compared to that of
other ports of similar size, and volume of traffic handled, and with the
average performance indicators of a sample of 220 ports in the world. This
analysis shows that, while gang productivity is generally in line with that
of other ports, the idle time of ships alongside berths is considerably
longer than in other ports (60-70% of the total ship stay in port as compared
to 30% for the sample of 220 ports). Moreover, low productivity, combined
with the necessity for improving the financial performance of COLPUERTOS, in
the absence of an adequate costing system, results in a tariff structure
which bears no relationship to the costs of providing port services.
4.        Public seaport charges in Colombia account for a high proportion of
the final price of several low value tradables, which, for imports, may
exceed that of inland transport charges, despite the long hauls involved in
domestic distribution. Accordingly, gains in port productivity will have an
important impact upon foreign trade at large, if adequately passed over to
users through an adequate cost-based tariff system. Improvements in port
operating efficiency are being pursued under the ongoing Ports Rehabilitation
Project, under which specific productivity targets have been agreed with
COLPUERTOS (Table 2 of this Annex). These targets are to be achieved through
a comprehensive strategy including the rehabilitation of existing facilities,
the procurement of container handling equipment, technical assistance for
port operations, and training, financed under the project. Moreover, the
project also pursnes a port tariff restructuring to reflect the cost of
services rendered, based on adequate cost-accounting systems.
D.   Railway Financial Performance and Operating Efficiency
5.        The natural terrain of Colombia, combined wiih the distribution of
economic activity, does not provide an ideal environment for operating a
railway, except for the relatively long distances between the main production
and consumpticn centers and the Atlantic ports. The natural disadvantages of
FNC are aggra.Ated by a number of self-imposed conditions leading to a higher
cost operation than necessary. Railway operating practices have changed
little since the 1960s, particularly in terms of methods for loading/
unloading wagons and the system for train operation, still involving
high-cost frequent stops for the removal or addition of wagons. In addition,
FNC has traditionally followed a policy of increasing traffic regardless of
its revenue potential, and certain traffics are not earning enough revenue to
cover its cash operating costs. The combination of these factors has led to
substantial operating deficits, which, in turn, have diverted resources away
from much needed investments in rehabilitation of track and rolling stock.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
6.        The progressive deterioration of the railway's physical assets and
financial performance led the Government to undertake a major study on the
economic role of the railways and, if justified, on the Institutional
adjustments required. This study is being financed under the ongoing Seventh
Railway Project, and future Bank involvement in the railway subsector would
be contingent upon the results of the study and the adoption by the
Government of suitable policies in support of the study recommendations.
April 1987



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
page 4 of 6
COOMBIA
SECND TIOE          _MI YS SETR PROET                Table 1
Sumarv Indicators for the Transport Sector             (Page 1 of 2)
(1985, unless othervise indicated)
A. Maroecououic Information
Population              28,614,200          Growth Rate            2.0   (1975-1985)
Area (Thousand sq. km)    1,139              Population Density 25.12  oer sq. km (1985)
GDP per capita          US$1,182            Growth Rate  X       2.8  Z/
Domestic Inflation        24.0
Currency Unit             Peso              US$ Exchange Rate    142.31
External Trade: (US$millions)
Imports  4027  Exports  4,036  1/
B. Transport Sector
Public Investment                           As Z of total
in Transport   US$395.4                   Public Investment    13.6
Modal Investment (Z of total transport):
Fuel Prices: (1986)3/                        Roads  Railways  Ports  Others
Retail      Border price            66      2         10     22
Gasoline5/     .55             .37
Diesel Oil     .55             .39              Modal Share: (Freight)4/
Highways 76 Railways 3 Other 21
Fuel Consumtion:5/                          Growth Rates:
Gasoline 6/               1,245.0                3.9 (1975-1985)
Diesel Oil                  430.2               24.1 (1975-1985)
C.   ighway Subsector
Total Network (km) 104,106 7/
Paved 10,253                                Km roads/1,000 people           3.64
Km roads/1,O0O Km2            MW
Vehicle Fleet:         789,157  (1984)      Vehicles/1,000 people          27.6
Cars                583,489               Average road
Buses                95,912                  traffic increase (Z)         4.0
Trucks              109,756               Maintenance Expenditure
Motorcycles          n.a.                  per km of nationa-l road  US$3,717
Maintenance Expenditures: US$95.1 m 8/
Revenues from charges
on road users: Total US$238.0 m
Fuel taxes9/ 211.0 Tolls 27.0
1/ Merchandise
2/  In constant Colombian pesos.
3/ Expressed in US$ per gallon.
4/ Including pipelines.
5/ Expressed in million of US gallons.
6/ 80 RON gasoline
7/ Excluding municipal roads.
8/ For the national h4ghway network, comprising paved and unpaved roads under MOPT.
9/ Proceeds accruing to MOPT, through the FVN.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
D. Ral1 Subsetor                                                               Page S of 6
Track Network (kI)        3,403
Fleet (units)                                                              Table 1
Locomotives                150   (1983)      Locomotives                  (Page 2 of 2)
Wagons                  4,871   (1983)          Availability       41%
Passenger coaches          273   (1982)      Locomotive-km/day   218 km
Wagon turnaround                             Wagon availability   62,60%
time (days)               21
Freight
tons Tthousands)         1,333               X increase p.a.    5.0    (1984-1985)
tons-km (millions)         774               % increase p.a.    4.0    (1984-1985)
Pssenger Traffic                              Average ton-km      58
Passenger (thousands)   2,370                x increase p.a.    63.0   (1984-1985)
Passenger-km
(millions)              230                % increase p.a.    19.0   (1984-1985)
Traffic: unit-km
(millions)    1,004                Labor Productivity
Staff                     8,310                 (thousand traffic units/
Gross Revenues:       US$30.55 m                 staff)             121
Freight             US$19.88 m              Average Revenue
Passenger           US$ 3.35 m              per ton-km        US$ 0.03
Average Revenue
per passenger-km US$ 0.13
Net operating
revenues      US$ (18,12)m
Operating ratio       159
Net-working
revenues      US$ (17.37)m
Working ratio          156
E. tort Subsxetor 11/
1mpVortS     Exports(1984)      Ton throughput
thousand tons)                (thousands tons)   3,923    (1984)
Beneral 1d573                938              Ton/gang/hour         58-77    (1984)12/
Bulk:  dry     1,'372 i      2Y6-             Ton/ship/day       1.338-2,516 (1984)2M/
liquid    305         77
Total          3,250       1,311
Containers (1984):
No. of boxes    n.a.         n.a.
weight           229         245
Gross Revenues (1984)
Imports          US$ 68,416.70                Average revenue
Exports          US$  6,436.85                   for imports     US$ 25.56    (1984)
Average revenue
for exports     US$  5.52    (1984)             *
Net operating
revenues        US$ 26.19 m  (1984)
Operating ratio          84     (1984)
Net working
revenues        US$ 28.48 m  (1984)
Working ratio            82     (1984)
10/ Of which 2,822 km currently in operation.
11/ Includes the four public ports under COLPUERTOS.
12/ Depending on specific ports and products.
Source: Bank Reports
January 1987



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
COJDONBIl                       Table 2
SM      lQKAL NGAS SICTOI PROJ___
Selot.d Prodsctivitt Increase Targets for COLPUERTOS 1/
(in 2, with reference to 1984 levels)
Ports           Cargo Type        1987         1989         1991
Buenaventura          General           7          14           22
Containers       16          33           33
Cartagena             General           7          13           20
Containers       16          33           33
Barranquilla          General           5          11           17
Containers      25           50           50
Santa Marta           General           6          11           19
Containers      25           50           50
1/ Measured as Ton/Gang/Hour for general cargo TEU/Gang/Hour for containers
Source: Colombia - Ports Rehabilitation Project SAR, Report No. 5530b-CO,
October 24, 1985
October 1986



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
ODLOMBIA
SECOND NATIONAL HIGCEUYS SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Asessmnt of Cost Recovery from Road Users
1.        Road user charges policy in Colombia has traditionally been
addressed more in terms of funding mechanisms than of pricing users for the
costs they impose on the network. Accordingly, a study has been financed
under the First Highway Sector Project (Loan 2121-CO) to analyze the
economics of the road cost-recovery system and to make recommendations for
improvements. Study results for the national highway network were updated
during the preparation of the proposed project in order to reflect traffic
trends and recent cost and price changes, particularly for automotive fuels.
2.        Road costs were estimated based on a rational investment strategy,
including improvements of the network as indicated in existing programs, and
maintenance requirements. Maintenance costs were assumed as the level of
expenditures that would be required in order to keep the network in average
condition, in accordance with the recommendations of a maintenance study
financed under the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-CO). Following
available physical evidence for road deterioration, costs were then allocated
to different determinants of road use. These include, essentially, the
space-use of vehicles and the loads they impose on pavements,vehicle mileage,
and time and weathering factors. For the latter, a 40% allowance in road
Variable costs was assumed, which is conservative in view of country
conditions and results from recent Bank research. Legitimate road user costs
could then be estimated for each of seven representative categories of
vehicles, currently using the paved and gravel road networks.
3.        The road user charges system in Colombia basically comprises a
combination of motor fuel taxes, import duties and sales taxes on vehicles,
spares and tires, tolls and registration taxes. Specific user charges were
considered just as those proceeds from tax revenues levied on road users,
over and above the resource cost of any input, including fuel, and of the
general taxation level in the economy. As a result, the net contribution of
each category of user to meet road costs could be estimated.
4.        The comparison of road user charges and costs shows that, in
economic terms, all categories of vehicles are basically being charged for
the variable costs of road use associated with each of them, with the
exception of the heavy two-axle truck (Table 1 of this Annex). This category
of vehicle falls slightly short of covering short-term variable costs.
During project preparation, the Government has already increased tolls
substantially for this category of vehicle. This action would contribute to
avoiding distortions in allocation of traffic between trucks and railways
since, in the corridors where these modes are competitive, roads are provided
with toll pricing systems. Moreover, road user charges and costs would be
subject to periodic monitoring and adjustment throughout project
implementation (Annex 12) in order to ensure that all vehicle categories are
charged, in economic terms, for, at least, the corresponding road routine and
periodic maintenance costs.
January 1987



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
C8LO#BfiT table 1
am001  NATIONAL NIS"HNAS SWUm mROET
J#gauIc Road User Cieras and Costs
(i nMc per  Vehlle-OW) 2
Two-axle Trucks       Multlaxle    Truck
Cars   Taxis    Vans   Buses  ug t5 tons  above 5 tons  Trucks   CombInatlons'
Revenues from User Chatres    2.97    0.64    3.10    1.80        1.33          2.71        2054        2.86
Fuel Taxes2/             0.22    0.23    0.41    1.11        0.48          0.77       1.02         1.01
Tolls                    0.31    0.33    0.34    0,43        0.45          0.80       0.85         0.80
Others 2                 2.44    0.08    2.35    0.26        0.40          1.14       0.67         1.05
Variable Road Costs /
Short-trm 3/            _0.24    0.24    0.24    I.00        0.32          3.18       191          1,76
Long-term 6/             O."      0.44    0.44    1.40      0.72           3.60       2.56         2.67
Coverage
Short-term costs                                                           0.85       1.33         1.63
Above 1.00
Long-term costs                                                            0.75       0.99         1.07
2 At mid-1986 prices.
2/ In excess of the resourc cost of fuel; as of mid-1986, pre-tax fuel prices were some 15% to 20% below
their estimated International levels, at the pump.
3/ Mostly sales taxes, Import duties and registration taxes, In excess of economy-wide averages,
4/ Net of a 40% allowance for time and weatherlng.
5/ Routine and perlodic maintenance costs.
6/ As In footnote .2, plus rehabilItation costs.
Source: MOPT and Mission estimates
October 1986



- 48-                           MNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
OONIA
SOOND NATIONAL NIGIYS SECTO  PROJECT
t       ib~r EgMUltlo  and Trade Facilitation
.0       The road transport industry in Colombia is subjected to heavy
Government regulation, Including a complex system of licensing and
affiliation and import and other controls on expansion of the truck fleet.
Regu?ation has historically developed as a means to promote a Government-
preferred structuring of the industry and to improve the reliability of road
transporto The results have been mixed. Road transport has developed
extensively and has shown its ability to satisfy demand at competitive
prices. However, the structural and financial stability of the trucking
companies and the security of transport operations have lagged behind
expectations. The above issues were addressed by a study carried out
consultants under the First Highway Sector Project (Loan 2121-CO). The study
provides for a detailed assessment of the impact of the regulatory framework
In Colombia and makes recommendations for improvementa in the efficiency of
the industry. The recommendations of the study also cover the streamlining
of documentation and other bottlenecks which have preventing the wider use of
containers and of intermodal transport combinations.
2.        The trucking industry Is controlled by a combination of physical
and economic regulations. Physical regulations include vehicle dimensions
(IMOPT's Resolution No. 5735 of 1983) which are in line with those of other
Latin American countries, and axle loads and maximum vehicle weights (MOPT's
Resolution No. 2087 of 1984) which are generous compared with those of other
countries of the continent. These latter regulations permit axle loads
considerably in excess of those previously allowed for and are, in part, a
recognition of the difficulty of enforcing the previous limits. Present axle
loads and maximum weight allowances should be sufficient for a reasonably
efficient operation to earn an acceptable return on capital invested.
3.        fctnomic regulations fall under INTRA, and they generally seek to
limit capacity by imposing quantitative constraints. The main functions of
INTRA, as a trucking services regulator, comprise: (a) licensing drivers,
vehicles and transport companies; (b) administering a National Bill of Lading
("Planilla Unica"), a necessary document for all legally valid public freight
movement by road; and (c) advising the Government on vehicle import and
domestic assembly quotas.
4.        The main objectivei of company licensing is to encourage the
development of financially and managerially competent operatcrs and to reduce
the number of vehicle-owners operating individually. The regulation is aimed
at providing owner-operators, through company membership, with the necessary
means for commercialixation (return load, brokerage services), security
(insurance) and access to financing; only licensed companies are legally
permitted to offer transport services. There are financial and operational
standards which have to be met before companies can be licensed In various
categories. One of the most important requirements is that minimum



- 49 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
proportions of the transport capacity available to the companies must be
owned by them and not hired or otherwise subcontracted. However, in
practice, few licensed companies achieve the levels of own-ownership that are
required in order to obtain licenses, and the majority of transport is
subcontracted to affiliated owner-operators. Moreover, under Colombian law,
transport operators have unlimited legal liability with respect to loads
without a declared value (the vast majority), but owner-drivers, and even
licensed companies, have limited resources either for obtaining suitable
insurance or legal representation to contest the claims made against them by
insurers of cargoes. As a result, the role of transport companies has fallen
short of the objectives of the existing legislation' particularly in
transport security, and their role has been basically limited to brokerage
functions. In addition, the existing regulatory setup has led to a
restrictive situation whereby owner-operators cannot directly contract with
shippers.
5.        The incorporation of new vehicles into the truck fleet is also
subject to Government regulation. INTRA is authorized to control additions
to the fleet by recommending to the Automotive Industry Coordination
Committee the number of vehicles of various characteristics to be
domestically assembled or imported during each year. The Committee includes
representatives of the Minister of Economic Development, of the
Superintendent of Industry and Commerce and of the Foreign Trade Institute
(INCOMEX). Although the total capacity of the truck fleet is sufficient to
meet demand, there subsist prevailing imbalances in terms of its structure.
The proportion of two-axle-truck vehicles in the total fleet (90%) is
excessive as is their participation in inter-regional road transport (about
80%). Since this type of transport in Colombia frequently involves
long hauls, substantial economic savings (up to 50% per ton-km in the
longer hauls) could legitimately be expected from the replacement of at least
some of the heavy two-axle trucks by the more efficient multi-axle extra-
heavy trucks.
6.        The wi.der use of containers and inter-modal transport combinations
in support of foreign trade has also been prevented by the inadequacy of the
Government regulations involved. The use of these potentially more efficient
shipping operations has been made difficult by, inter alia: (a) the
multiplicity and lack of uniformity of the transit documentation; (b) the
lack of coordination among the innumerous security checks performed by
various Government agencies, including the Customs; (c) the absence of a
specific institutional and regulatory framework, particularly for intermodal
transport; and (d) the inadequate training of Government officials in modern
transport operations techniques. The private sector, through the Colombian
Association of Transport Users (CUTMA), has been actively involved in
diagnosing and promoting corrective measures, but its recommendations have 80
far had a limited impact. The implementation of the necessary facilitation
adjustments would, at this stage, require a major Government commitment,
particularly through the coordination of efforts of all public agencies
involved. MOPT, through its Sector Planning Office, is uniquely placed to
take the lead in transport and trade facilitation matters.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
7.        During project preparation, the Government has already initiated
adjustments to address the issues outlined above. Key actions undertaken,
which are in line with recommendations of the study financed under the First
Highway Sector Project, covered: (a) issuance of a new Decree regulating
INTRA's activities, allowing for own-operators' affiliation with several
companies, and for the direct contracting of transport between shippers and
owner-operators, for certain types of products (Presidential Decree No. 2330
of July 22, 1986); and (b) preparatory arrangements for the creation of a
Transport and Trade Facilitation Task Force. Main followup measures to be
pursued under the proposed project are included in an Action Plan (Annex 12),
prepared by MOPT in consultation with the Bank, and aim at: (a) new statutes
for INTRA away from economic regulation; (b) review of truck domestic
assembly and import policy; (c) review of tk.e Codes of Commerce and Transport
for improved equity in transport contracts, for a generalized risk insurance
policy and for coverage of intermodal transport; and (d) institu-
tionalization of the Transport and Trade Facilitation Task Force under MOPT's
Sector Planning Office to follow up and monitor facilitation efforts.
April 1987



- 51-                             NEX 4
Page 1 of 7
COWNSIA
SICOND NATIONAL HIGHWYS SECTOR PROJECT
MOzbVEv Adminlstration
A.   Subsector Organization
1.        MOPT is in charge of the construction and maintenance of the
national highway network. Other major entities are also involved in the
administration of the road network, reflecting the distribution of
responsibilities among National, Departmental and Municipal levels.
Twenty-three Departments are in charge of their corresponding secondary and
rural roads through their Secretariats of Public Works (SPWs). FNCV is in
charge of specific programs for the construction, upgrading, and maintenance
of rural roads in cooper- Ion with Departmental and other authorities,
through its 24 Regional Directorates. Other ministries and institutions also
involved in rural roads, such as the Ninistry of Agriculture, the Colombia
Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) and the Coffee Producers' Association
(FIDECAFE), operate in close coordination with FNCV. The organizational
arrangements for road administration are adequate; however, the weakest links
are the Departmental SPWs, which show wide disparities in their
organizational, financial and technical capabilities for effectively
maintaining the roads under their responsibilities. A departmental roads
maintenance study to be financed by FONADE under the Rural Transport Sector
Project (Loan 2668-CO) would evaluate the maintenance needs of roads in
selected departments and propose a plan of action for organizing the delivery
of maintenance services, as well as appropriate funding mechanisms.
B.   MOPT's Organization
2.        As shown in Chart I, the Minister of Public Works, assisted by the
Vice-Minister, exerts his responsibilities for the execution and maintenance
of public works through the administrative structure of MOPT, with the
assistance of the Legal Advisor, the Sectoral Planning Office and an Office
for Foreign Credit. MOPT's central administration is divided into two main
branches, the General Secretariat, which comprises mainly three Directorates
(Bidding and Contracting, Commercial and Financial, and Industrial Relations)
and the Technical Secretariat, which also comprises three Directorates
(Highways, Navigation and Ports, and National Properties). The structural
separation into two independent units produced internal frictions and lack of
coordination in the past, which were eased through the institutional
strengthening efforts carried out under the First Highway Sector Loan and
which will be addressed further under the proposed loan (Annex 12).
3.        The Highway Directorate (Chart II) is in charge of MOPT's highway
programs. It comprises four subdirectorates (Projects, Supervision,
Equipment and Rate Assessment) and the 23 regional Districts which carry out



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
road maintenance and are primarily responsible for supervision of all
contracts. The operational efficiency of the Highway Directorate has been
strengthened substantially under the First Sector Loan and would be further
upgraded under the proposed project (Annex 12).
4.        MOPT's personnel reached a peak of 3,071 employees and 12,200
workers In 1984 and was adjusted to 2,639 employees (42% in the districts)
and 12,563 workers ( 91% in the districts) by September 30, 1986. Of'the
employees, about 700 are professionals (802 engineers) and 533 are
technicians. Officers in the districts are ':1most entirely engineers. Most
of the professional personnel, as well as th, senior staff are experienced
and capable. MOPT intends to continae its pressnt personnel adjustment
policy.
C.   Execution of Civil Works
5.        In accordance with the development of Colombia's basic network,
there has been, since the early 19709 a dramatic shift in the execution of
road civil wvrks from new construction to rehabilitation of paved roads and
paving of gravel roads. Considering these three types of civil works,
investments in new construction decreased from 85% of the total in 1973 to
33% in 1983 and would further decrease under the proposed project to 28X in
1993 if the proposed investments for rehabilitation of gravel roads are also
included In this comparison.l/ These civil works are executed according to
modest design standards for new roads and for road upgrading adapted to the
various and often difficult Colombian conditions (Tables 1 and 2 of this
Annex), which are the same that were used under the First Highway Sector
Project (Loan 2121-CO). These standards are reasonable and aim at preserving
the existing investments without jeopardizing basic capacity requirements.
Only limited improvement to geometric design would be permitted for
Bank-financed rehabilitation and paving works.
6.        Detailed engineering and construction supervision are usually
carried out by local consultant firms, however, detailed engineering for
rehabilitation works has also been done by MOPT based upon road condition
inventories compiled by the Districts, The Districts assign staff engineers
to supervise contracts for design, and works construction and supervision,
under the District engineer, who also has delegated authority to sign payment
certificates on behalf of MOPT. The Projects Sub-Directorate in Bogota
supervises technical quality of designs, and the Sub-Directorate for
Supervision controls all activities of the Districts through monthly visits
by engineers and administrators who are assigned geographical areas. This
organization will be strengthened and streamlined under the proposed loan
(Annex 12).
1/                         1973           1983           1993
(X)            (Z)            (%)
New Construction             85             33             28
paved roads                -              47             32
Rehabilitation of
gravel roads                -              -              9
Paving of gravel roads       15             20             31
Total               100.0           100.0         100.0



53 -                           ANX 4
Page 3 of 7
7.        Under previous Bank projects, quality of works has consistently
been affected by: (a) inadequate information on road construction materials;
(b) deficient quality of engineering studies; (c) cumbersome bidding and
contracting procedures; (d) poor coordination between works and budget
programming; (e) inadequate performance of some contractors; and
(f) expensive supervision. Substantial progress in overcoming these
weaknesses has been achieved under Loans 1471-CO and 2121-CO as follows:
(a) A study financed under Loan 1471-CO provided basic information on
traditional road construction and maintenance materials available
in the most important areas in the country.
(b) The deficient quality of road studies and the considerable time-lag
between the date of the studies and the corresponding execution
under Loan 1471-CO caused substantial increases in project cost (up
to 50% in individual subprojects) and the reduction of the project
scope (1/26/84) from 978 km to 777 km. The affected subprojects
were completted under the First Highway Sector Project
(Loan 2121-CO). Based upon this experience, MOPT reviewed its
criteria and procedures for road rehabilitation engineering, and
substantial ccst overruns of rehabilitation works were avoided
under the ongoing First Highway Sector Project (Loan 2121-CO), To
further improve engineering, MOPT has recently updated and
streamlined its terms of reference for the contracting of
engineering studies and would hire consulting services under the
proposed loan to strengthen its capacity for supervision of
engineering studies.
(c) Cumbersome procurement procedures and delays in contracting that
affected execution of works during the first years of
implementatioa of the First Highway Sector Project have been
addressed by MOPT by simplifying procurement procedures,
streamlining its legal services and by preparing standard
contracts.
(d) Execution of subprojects under recent loans has been affected by
irregular and often insufficient availability of counterpart
funding originated inter alia by the lack of coordination in the
programing of works. Substantial progress in this needed
coordination has been achieved in recent years under the ongoing
project through the semi-annual review of works programs and
budgetary allocations.
(e) Implementation of several subprojects under the two last highway
loans was affected by inadequate performance of some executing
contractors caused by inadequate financial capacity or equipment.
These problems were often aggravated by delays in payments of works
invoiced and price adjustments. In the two last years, MOPT took
corrective measures by speeding up payments, tying payment of price
escalation to satisfactory execution of the work program and by
strict application of contractual penalties for inexcusable delays



- 54 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
in works execution. In addition, MOPT has suspended the existing
regulations of its register of civil contractors because of
inadequacies found in the evaluation of the financial capacity of
contractors. MOPT has also revised regulations for the register of
contractors used for LCB.
(f) Cost of supervision of civil works contract under the last
two highway loans has been very high, varying from 9% for bigger
civil works programs to 20% for medium-sized contracts (about
US$1 million equivalent). The main reasons for these high costs
are: (i) inadequacy of engineering studies which require
additional studies by the supervision consultants; (ii) MOPT's
practice in the early 1980. to assign individual supervision
contracts for each civil works contract regardless of its size or
complexity; and (iii) delays in execution of civil works, resulting
in modest amounts of works executed each month without reduction of
the input for supervision. The improvement of the quality of
engineering studies, the recent policy adopted by MOPT to employ
one consultant for the supervision of several smaller civil works
contracts, and the measures being applied to streamline financial
administration of civil works are expected to reduce supervision
costs substantially.  These actions would be further pursued under
the proposed project (Annex 12).
D.   Road Maintenance
8.        Until the mid-1970s, the Government considered highway maintenance
as low priority in view of the concentrated effort to complete the national
highway network. Faced with the resultant deteriorating concition of the
network, however, a more positive attitude emerged during preparation of the
Seventh Highway Project. Annual maintenance expenditures increased by about
50% in 1979 in real terms, and maintenance expenditures increased by an
average of 5% annually, in real terms, through 1983. Since then, they have
remained stable and are far above the LAC average. Under the Seventh Highway
Project, a major effort was made by MOPT, with the assistance of consultants
(INGEROUTE, France), to switch from an administrative to a managerial
approach in road maintenance. Under the First Highway Sector Project, a
Pavement Management System (PMS) was introduced in three pilot districts for
later expansion to all districts. The Road Maintenance Sub-Directorate, to
be created under the proposed loan, would continue to upgrade these efforts
(Annex 12).
9.        The Equipment Management System started under the First Highway
Sector Project has remained in place. Equipment purchases financed under
Loans 1471-CO and 2121-CO (for about US$40.0 million) and under co-financing
arrangements (for about US$60.0 million) substantially renewed 60% of the
over-aged equipment fleet during the years 1982 through 1986. Additional
procurement of repair equipment and tools (for about US$500,000) under Loan
2121-CO considerably strengthened MOPT's equipment maintenance capability,
which would be further strengthened by procurement of some urgently needed
replacement equipment under the proposed loan.



- 55 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
10.       Bank efforts under previous and the ongoing highway projects to
improve the efficiency of maintenance operations carried out by the districts
have been only partially successful, with low labor and equipment
productivity so far preventing full achievement of agreed targets. Several
attempts have been made by MOPT in the past to increase the percentage of
maintenance works carried out by contract, which at present is about 13%. Of
particular interest has been MOPT's innovative initiative to contract routine
maintenance with labor absorbing small cooperatives (micro-enterprises) of 12
to 15 worke:- covering about 50 km of road each. This program has been
highly successful and has demonstrated strong couparative advantages to
routine maintenance carried out by force account. By mid-1986, there were
about 126 micro-enterprises (covering over 6,000 km of primary roads) in
operation. The amount of contracted routine and periodic maintenance would
be increased substantially under the proposed loan (Annex 13).
11.       Under the ongoing First Highway Sector project, there has been a
considerable improvement in the systematic collection and evaluation of
information needed to upgrade maintenance planning and administration, as
well as in the costing and accounting of maintenance operations. The goal of
reducing maintenance personnel and administration expenditures below SC.e of
total maintenance expenditures set under Loan 2121-CO was achieved in 1985.
These efforts would be strengthened under the proposed loan (Annex 13).
January 1987



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
ODLOMBIA                      Table 1
Defie Stauafd for _ew  oads
(Main parmters)
ADT Year 10              <250      250/500    500/1000   1000/2000  2000/5000  > 5000
Tsrrainv                 £    N M        _      £    K n         K     I           £ x
Des8imnsped I./h)        40   50    40   50    40   60   ,40   60    60   s0    60   80
Carriageway (a)           6.00        6.00        7.00       7.00        7.00    2 : 7.00
Shoilder (m)            0.5  1.0       1.0        1.0         1.5        2.50       2.50
Ka8,immSrimmt (Z) |8    7             7    6     6    5      6    5     5    4      5    5
Minion R. Radius (a)   50   80    50   80    50  120    50  120   120  250   120  250
Stopping Distance (m)   40   60    40   60    40   70    40   70    70  110    70  110
Bridge Width (m)          7    8      8    8     9    9      9    9    10   10      2 x 9
erraini' 2               O    P     O    P      O    p     0    P      0    P      0    P
Design Speed (km/h)      60   70    60   70    80  100    80  100    80  100   100  120
Carriag8way (a)           6.00        6.00        7.00       7.00        7.00    2 x 7.00
Shouldr (a)             1.0  1.5   1.0  1.5   1.5  2.0   2.0  2.5   2.5  3.0   3.0  3.0
Kawm &adest (2)           6    5      5    4     4    3      4    3     4    3      4    3
Minisim  B. Radius (a)  120  160   120  180   250  450   230  450   250  450   250  450
Stopping Distance (a)   70   90    70   90   110  200   110  200   110  200   110  160
Bridge Width (m)          8    8     8           9    9      9    9    10   10    2 x 9
1/  E = Alpine-Type Terrain              M * Mountainous Terrain
2/  0 - Hilly-Type Terrain                P a Rolling Flat Terrain
Source: MOPT, Manual de Diseno, 1970, page II-41
October 1986



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
9MIA&                        Table 2
g    D  AIEL  GI&S SECTOR PROJECT
ftsgW- Standards for Now Roads
(main paramters)
ADT Year 10                     250         250/500        500/1000       1000/2000
Terrai 1n                   E       M       E      x       E      M        E      M
Operating Speed (km/h)      30      40      30     40      30     40       30     40
Carriageay (a)             5.0    5.0      5.0    5.0     6.0    6.0      6.0    6.0
Shoulder (a)               0.5    0.5      0.5    0.5     1.0    1.0      1.0    1.0
fauiua Gradiet (Z)           12     10      12     10      12      10      10      8
inli   BH. Radius (a)        25     40      25     40      25      40      25     40
Stopping Distance (a)       30      50      30     50      30     50       30     50
Bridge Width (a)             6       6       6      6       8      8        8      8
Terrait                      ° 0    P       0      p       0       p       0      p
Operating Sped (km/h)        50     60      50     60      60      80      60     80
CarriaSeway (a)            5.0    5.0      5.0    5.0     6.0    6.0      6.0    6.0
Shoulder (a)               0.5    1.0      1.0    1.0     1.5    1.5      1.5    1.5
Maxl    Gradleiit(%)          8      6       8      6       8       6       6      4
linImn R. Radius (i)         80    120      80    120     120    220      120    220
Stopping Distance (a)       60      80      60     80      80    140       80    140
Bridge Width (a)             6       6       6      6       8      8        8      8
1/  E - Alpine-Type Terrain              M - Mountainous Terrain
2/  0 = Hilly-Type Terrain               P - Rolling Flat Terrain
Source: MOPT, Manual de Diseno, 1970, page 11-41
October 1986



-58-                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
C~OLOMBIA
SECOND NATIONAL NIGOAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Public Investment Progaming and Mudeting In the Tranuport Sector
A.   Planning and Investment Programing
1.        Colombia has a relatively long tradition In planning.  The planning
system, established in 1958, relies on the activities of the National Council
for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) and of the planning offices in the
Ministries and other public sector agencies. CONPES functions under the
personal direction of the President of the Republic and comprises the
Ministers of Finance, Economic Development, Public Works and Transport,
Agriculture, Foreign Affairs and Labor, the Chief of the National Planning
Department (DNP), the Director of the Export Institute, and the General
Managers of the Central Bank and of the National Federation of Coffee
Growers. DNP acts as the executive secretariat for CONPES and includes a
Transport Division which interacts with the sector agencies regarding the
definition of goals and strategies in the sector. DNP's transport division
plays an active role in the preparation of the capital budget, but its role
in sector coordination and in following up investment execution has
traditionally been more limited. At the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (MOPT), there is a Sectoral Planning Office, directly attached to
the Minister, which is intended to play a major role in planning and
coordinating sector activities. In practice, however, the office has
concencrated almost exclusively on highway planning matters, directly under
MOPT. Other sector agencies and enterprises have their own planning offices,
but their roles are very much intermixed with financial programing and, in
some cases, with administration.
2.        The basic planning instrument is Decree No. 627 of 1973, which
regulates the organization and activities of CONPES, DNP, the National
Development Plan and the sectoral plans. The National Development Plan puts
forward the broad objectives and strategy for each administration's
term-in-office (four years). The Transport Sector Plan is also quite
general. It is mainly a descriptive document, indicating little about the
strategies for the sector and the specific roles assigned to each transport
mode.  Past Transport Plans have been, therefore, of limited use as a
policy-making tool and as a framework of reference for budget preparation.
The planning system and its products can be improved in a number of ways. In
the case of the transport sector, DNP should play a more active role in the
preparation of the Sector Plan and, in particular, in the yearly preparation
of operating plans and in the followup of the project portfolio. MOPT's
Sectoral Planning Office should also be strengthened. Its direct attachment
to the Minister should be maintained, but its staff should be reinforced.
The Office should become more involved in the coordination of the activities
of the sector agencies, and appropriate links with the sector parastatals
should be established and adequately monitored.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
3.        The practice of taking into account pre-feasibility studies when
making investment decisions is better established in Colombia than in most
Latin American countries. In the transport sector under MOPT, project
selection and evaluation methods are widely used in all agencies, partly
reflecting past and ongoing Bank involvement. However, project monitoring,
which is presently carried out by different agencies and for different
purposes, without composing an integral system, probably remains the weakest
phase of the whole project cycle. In early-1985, the DNP launched a system
to monitor projects that are financed by external sources, but this system
has no regular access to information on project followup performed by
transport agencies. Contraloria has also recently adopted an information
mechanism for contracts which partially serves as follow-up system. At MOPT,
there are embryonic systems to monitor highway projects, and the National
Rural Roads Fund (FNCV), the railway company (FNC) and the port authority
(COLPUERTOS) have also established some form of procedures for project
followup. The system used by each agency is limited in scope and seldom
generates information adequate to correct implementation problems at the
various levels of administration. Moreover, as of yet, there has been no
attempt to coordinate the different information mechanisms.
4.        Within MOPT, project execution is directly supervised by
inspectorates, mostly contracted with consulting firms, and monitored by MOPT
personnel. Inspectors ensure that technical conditions of contracts are
being observed and certify regarding the progress of works for payment
purposes. Moreover, they submit to MOPT monthly reports which show, in both
financial and physical terms, the proportion of the project that has been
executed and the main problems faced during the period. MOPT must approve
the reports and comment upon them when necessary. If execution lags behind
schedule by more than 20Z, a special notification is delivered to the
contractor, by MOPT's Division of Technical Supervision. There are several
problems in the organization and application of the above procedures, which
led in the past to considerable gaps between budget programing and execution
of projects, as analyzed in Annex 4. Moreover, no systematic records
regarding causes for delays, or contractor's performance and their
fulfillment of obligations, are kept, and no comprehensive information system
to correct problems at the axecution and pre-execution stages is available.
FNCV, FNC and COLPUERTOS adopt project followup techniques which, in essence,
are similar to those of MOPT, and infer from similar shortcomings.
B. Overview of the Budgetary Process
5.        The budgetary process in Colombia, as it affects the transport
sector, has different rules and procedures for current and capital
expenditures. Current expenditure budgeting basically follows the
incremental approach, with a very tenuous link to planning. Capital
expenditures are somewhat better integrated with planning, but they depend
very much on earmarking and on foreign financing constraints. The budget
period is one year, but budgetary changes made during the fiscal period,
previous year carryover deficits, and the overshadowing of budget by cash
management practices turn budget execution into a continuous process of
negotiation within the Government.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
6.        Budget preparation is based on revenue projections carried out by
the General Directorate of the Budget of the Ministry of Finance and DNP.
Revenues ate estimated on accrual basis (recognition) expected for the fiscal
year, implying, for instance, that credit resources are not to be budgeted
unless they are firmly established by an approved contract, Current
estimates cannot in general exceed 10% or be less than 70% of previous year
current revenues. These rules have been a source of budget additions in the
past, since inflation and the necessity of contracting additional foreign
loans have led to a systematic underestimation of revenues.
7.        Once the initial estimates of current and capital resources are
made, a tentative distribution of budget resources among ministries and
agencies is prepared by the Ministry of Finance for current expenditures and
by DNP for investment. The quotas so decided are made known to each part of
the public administration for the detailed preparation of the budget
project. In the case of MOPT, the preparation of the current budget, and its
subsequent discussion with the Ministry of Finance, is limited to a
formality since it does not reflect any dialogue with subsector agencies or
between the technical and administrative areas of the Ministry. The
investment budget is also prepared by MOPT for submission to DNP, in
accordance with the quotas allocated, which basically reflect the existing
projections for sector earmarked and own-revenues, and disbursements under
secured credit operations. Subsequently, DNP consolidates the capital budget
proposals of the different agencies and forwards it to the Ministry of
Finance, which combines the capital and the current budgets into a single
document for later Congress approval.
8.        According to present budgetary practice, it is difficult for MOPT
to determine, at any given moment, the amount of funds already committed for
ongoing projects initiated in previous years and the funds available for new
investment. Also, in any given year, it is difficult to determine the future
budgetary implications of new projects being approved. This has made it
difficult to program investment at the time of budget preparation and to
program its execution adequately throughout the year. The whole practice has
led to situations wherein it is difficult to reorient investment even if that
is the policy decision, because of an overcommitment of funds in given
projects or areas. The implementation of rolling pluriannual budgetary
systems could assist in improving investment programing and execution and
contribute to avoiding past overcommitments and reducing uncertainty in
project funding availability.
9.        Although authorization for expenditures is given with the approval
of the budget by Congress, ministries and decentralized agencies are subject
to other steps before being able to use budget funds. One of these steps is
the 'consents of obligation", under which a given agency is allowed to commit
budget funds. The "consents of obligation" serve to program budget
commitments for a period of several months. Documentation is prepared every
four months by the Budget Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, principally
for investment, on the basis of requests of each agency. The information is
cumulative, but funds not used in one period must be reprogramed in the next
period. The other step is the monthly "resolution of expenditures", under
which money is transferred to the agencies for payments. During the process



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
of budget execution, a number of controls are made by the Budget Delegations
of Contraloria and the Budget Directorates within each agency. Despite the
consiierable number of central controls within the budgetary process, its
application at the level of MOFT has led to some disorder in the execution of
capital expenditures. The practice of obtaining additional budget resources
after the original budget is approve4, combined with uncertainty regarding
the additional level of funding to be secured, has led to considerable
overcommitment particularly in the highways subsector. Overcommitment and
reprograming, in turn, are facilitated by the lack of an adequate information
system on budget execution and by the considerable margin for unforeseen
circumstances allowed for each contract,
10.       Additional funds are also needed during budget execution to adjust
contracts for inflatSon. In the last few years, in the case of roads,
contract cost adjustments have tended to be higher than expected. Beside
technical implementation factors (Annex 4), cost adjustment formulas have
also provided incentives for execution delays. Unitary cost adjustments
granted to contractors are based on MOPT's own-indices, and these have
exceeded inflation as measured by cost of living or wholesale price indices.
Above-inflation adjustments are explained as due to recent real Colombian
Peso devaluations, and because imported items have a considerable weight in
the indices. In any case, a thorough review of MOPT's indices is justified
at this stage, particularly since they are based on a combination of inputs
that prevailed in the 1960s.
c.   Scope for Improvement
11.       There is considerable scope for improvement in the budget
preparation and execution processes at the level of the transport sector
under MOPT.  This would essentially involve the development and
implementation of comprehensive information management systems for different
levels of decision-making. Moreover, the communication links among different
managerial levels, i.e., DNP, MOPT and the descentralized subsector agencies
would need to be strengthened.
12.       Project Monitoring System.  The adoption of a complete system to
monitor projects would contribute to close the gap between programing of
works and their exc^ution.  Such a system should be based on a full inventory
of sector projects covering all phases of the project cycle. The system
should use both physical and financial indicators, produce regular reports
for various decisional levels, identify main causes of differences between
programing and execution and trigger corrective actions in case problems
arise. The system should be put into effect in all subsector agencies and
enterprises; its central information point would be MOPT's Sector Planning
Office.
13.       Rolling Pluriannual Investment Budget.  The implementation of a
rolling pluriannual investment budget would assist MOPT to achieve improved
coordination between budget programing and project funding requirements.
This system would require the keeping for each project, of a record of past
expenditures and of funds to be used in the current- and future-year
budgets. This information should be periodically updated, say quarterly, for



- 62-                           ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
price changes, and it would allow for the proportion of the total project
costs already executed, and to be executed in future years, to be readily
available, at any time. This system should be implemented in close
cooperation with DNP to ensure consistency in sectoral projections and
budgetary changes.
14.       Monitoring the Performance of Sector Parastatals.  The
relationships between MOPT and sector parastatals, particularly the railways
and ports enterprises, would need improvement in the framework of a system of
performance indicators rather than oa budgetary controls. The system should
be as small as possible, but developed to reflect most of the key activities
involved. The availability of monthly reports, with indicators produced by
each enterprise, would allow for higher levels of administration to be
regularly informed on how resources are being used, and would trigger early
warnings when problems start to develop. The implementation of the
performance monitoring system should be accompanied by improvements in the
present financial projection practices of the sector revenue-earning
entities. More adequate revenue and expenditure projections, prepared in
accordance with standard commercial practice, rather than on strict budgetary
balancing criteria, would contribute to enhance the use of financial
information for management purposes.
15.       The improvement of sector budget programing and execution practices
would be pursued under the proposed project (Annex 12). Financing under the
loan would provide for the technical assistance required to develop and
implement the management information systems outlined, at the level of MOPT
and subsector agencies (Annex 10).
January 1987



- 63 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
SCOND R*fONAL UIGVS EC R PROJE
Bank Asslstance to the Eighw   Subsector
A.   Highway Projects
(1) Completed Projects
1.        From the early 1950s to the mid-1970s, the Bank Group contributed
to the development of the highway subsector through six loans and one credit,
which assisted in the expansion of the primary network and in the
introduction of modern engineering and construction techniques. The first
generation of highway projects (Loan 43-CO, US$16.5 million, 1951;
Loan 84-CO, US$14.35 million, 1953; Loan 144-CO, US$16.5 million, 1956,
Loan 295-CO, US$19.5 million, and Credit 05-CO, US$19.5 million, 1961; Loan
550-CO, US$17.2 million, 1968; and Loan 680-CO, US$32.0 million, 1970)
eventually resulted in the construction or upgrading of 4,500 km of trunk
roads, which constitute the backbone of Colombia's two south-north corridors
to the Atlantic ports, their interconnections and their link to the main
Pacific port. The two last loans also financed construction of one major
bridge each. A major technical assistance compouent by Comec-Harris
(Mexico-USA), financed under Loans 295-CO and 550-CO, assisted in the
reorganization of NOP, adding transportation functions, and of the districts
to strengthen road administration.
2.        Progress of all of these projects was slow because of:
(a) inadequate designs; (b) awarding of contracts to inexperienced and
financially weak local firms (affecting mostly the two last projects);
(c) scarcity of counterpart funds; and (d) poor supervision and contract
management. The resulting cost overruns of up to 70Z brought about reduction
of the original project scopes in most cases, with unfinished parts of the
preceding loans being completed under the following ones. Almost all loans
required extensions of up to three years of their closing dates to permit
full disbursement of the loan proceeds.
3.        Although these six loans contributed fundamentally to the
development of Colombia's trunk system and to the emergence of road transport
as the main means of communication, the original objectives were only
partially achieved and the ultimate objective of the paving program to
improve communications between the Atlantic ports and the major commercial
and industrial centers of the country was not fully met. Nevertheless, the
roads and bridges built with Bank assistance are benefiting the Colombian
economy by reducing vehicle operating costs on important trade routes and,
with a few exceptions, are yielding high economic returns to the country.
The completion report of the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 680-CO) recommended
that: (a) MPT's competence and capacity be assessed more realistically;
(b) engineering works be completed prior to loan negotiations; and (c) the
extreme importance of road maintenance be recognized.



- 64 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
4.        The Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-Co, US$90 million, 1977)
shifted the Bank's involvement in the highway subsector to road
rehabilitation and maintenance and related institutional development,
comprising: (a) rehabilitation of about 978 km of paved trunk roads;
(b) preparation and implementation of a vehicle weight program; (c) a highway
maintenance program (1978-1982) focused on the renewal and better management
of MOPT's equipment fleet and on the introduction of upgraded planning and
management methods and procedures for maintenance activities; and
(d) updating of the national transport plan and preparation of an inventory
of local road materials.
5.        Project startup was delayed for two years because of the changes in
administration (August 1978) and subsequent Inquiries into MOPT's practices,
which paralyzed most procurement actions until February 1979. The new
administration had aifficulties in reorganizing MOPT and restarting the
project. Key consultants, in particular for maintenance planning and
equipment management, became involved only in early 1980. Some of the civil
works contracted during the first two years encountered administrative and
financial problems and failed; new contracts had to be negotiated or
tendered. It was not until the end of 1979 that project execution really got
under way with the full support of MOPT; however, implementation suffered new
delays and cost increases because of a combination of: (a) increases in
quantities due to the nature of the works and the additional deterioration
between the time when engineering was completed back in 1974 and t-a time of
construction; and (b) inflation, which was higher than anticipated over a
longer period than estimated. In October 1983, NOPT and the Bank agreed upon
a reduction of the original scope of road rehabilitation from 974 km to
777 km, which were completed by the end of 1985. The remaining 197 km of
roads that were initiated under the Seventh Highway Project have been
completed under the ongoing Sector Project.
6.        The technical assistance for highway maintenance by consultants
INGEROUTE (France) was completed in 1982 and initiated and developed
implementation of systems for: (a) pavement management; (b) equipment and
spare parts management; and (c) training. After the departure of the
consultants, implementation of these initiatives slowed down, but it has
received new impetus under the new Government that took over in August 1986.
Maintenance, road marking and laboratory equipment for a total of US$24.0
million was procured under the project.  In addition, MOPT procured
maintenance equipment for about US$60 million with bilateral credits under a
program set up under the equipment management system which, for the future,
foresees procurement only as replacement of required units considering
alternatives for balancing force account and contracted maintenance.
Expenditures for road maintenance were increased in real terms about 50% in
1979 and 5% each year thereafter, remaining stable since 1983. The
commitment to keep maintenance labor and administration expenditures below a
501 threshold of total maintenance expenditures was complied with, if
amortization of maintenance equipment is included in the calculation.
7.       Local consultants TECNOCONSULTA LTDA. completed a study in 1982 on
the economic, technical, financial and legal aspects of vehicle weight
control and presented their recommendations on the number, type and location



- 65 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
of vehicle weight control units, which were approved by the Bank. MOPT's
cumbersome budgeting and procurement procedures delayed procurement of
weighing equipment, and tendering failed two times, in 1984 and 1985.
Weighing equipment could not be procured before the loan's closing date,
December 31, 1985, and US$2,173,923.00 in uncommitted funds was canceled.
Five portable scales are being procured under Loan 2121-CO, and five
stationary weighing stations would be procured under the proposed loan.
8.        The National Transport Plan was finalized and discussed with the
Bank by mid-1980 and led to the preparation of the First Highway Sector
Project (Loan 2121-CO). Three contracts for the study and inventory of
locally available road materials were awarded in 1981 and 1982 to three local
firms and were completed in 1984. This study is to be updated and amplified
under the proposed project. Although some of the project's objectives were
not fully achieved, the Seventh Highway Project contributed fundamentally to
the updating and strengthening of MOPT's administrative procedures and to the
improvement of Colombia's primary road network, thus benefiting the economy
by substantial savings in transportation costs. The completion report for
this project is in preparation.
(ii) Onoing Project
9.        The First Highway Sector project (Loan 2121-CO, US$152.3 million
1982) aimed at financing MOPT's 1982-1986 Highway Program, including road
rehabilitation (3,700 km); paving (2,800 km); resealing (2,500 km); and new
construction (500 km). It also aimed at improving subsector management
efficiency and strengthening the executing agency's, MOPT, highway planning
and implementation capability. Key measures envisaged included:
(a) development of pluriannual highway programs; (b) systematic use of
economic appraisal methodologies in support of program preparation;
(c) introduction of a comprehensive road safety program; (d) improvement of
MOPT's management data system and computerization of technical and financial
records; (e) increasing of periodic maintenance by contract and
rationalization of the force account organization; (f) reclassification of
the network and development of departmental highway plans; and (g) improving
of vehicle-axle-load control. Moreover, sector studies were to be carried
out under the project covering the National Transport Plan, road user charges
and truck regulation and services.
10.       The civil works program was to be financed jointly by MOPT's own
funds by the Seventh Highway Project and by two IDB loans. However,
financing under the sector project was to be applied to the execution of
specific projects to be selected by stringent economic criteria. By the time
of negotiations, about 1,400 km of rehabilitation works and 700 km of paving
works had been preselected and evaluated, engineering was well advanced, 655
km of rehabilitation works had already been awarded and 148 km of paving
works were to be awarded. Fast startup of project implementation was
expected. However, the change in Government that took place one month before
the date of effectiveness of the Loan (9/6/82) delayed startup of project
execution by more than a year, and contracting of the awarded works was
delayed until after publication of a new national procurement law (Decree
222) in February 1983, which introduced additional complications into the



- 66 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
tendering and contracting procedures. Several successful bidders refused to
sign their contracts, which brought about extended negotiations to award to
next lowest bidders, Additional difficulties appeared when MOPT started to
use the new bidding procedures, which were not in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines., This problem further detained contracting for civil works
execution and goods procurement, and finally led to the cancellation of
US$2.7 million of the amount of the loan on May 3, 1984. The difficulties on
the procurenent procedures were finally solved in June 1984, and full project
implementation got under way. In October 1983, the Bank had agreed to
transfer from Loan 1471-CO the completion of execution of 197 km of road
rehabilitation. An agreement on the opening of a special account was signed
on May 21, 1984. Nevertheless, execution of civil works suffered new delays
because of: (a) delays in contracting; (b) lack of counterpart funding; (c)
poor performance by contractors; and (d) weak supervision. Following a
general agreement with the Government, the Bank, under the Special Action
Program, increased d'sbursements for civil works from 50% to 65% starting
January 1, 1985 until June 30, 1986. An extension of the loan closing date
from December 31, 1986 to December 31, 1987 was agreed on May 26, 1985 and,
finally, on June 19, 1986, the Bank agreed to extend 65% financing of a few
subprojects to December 31, 1986 and to apply 65% financing to the execution
of emergency civil works (Nevado del Ruiz) until their conclusion. In
general, execution of works is proceeding well, although slower than
expected. Quality of works is satisfactory with a few exceptions. The cost
of works stays at the level forecast during appraisal.
11.       Considerable progress has been achieved during project
implementation in the tasks listed from (a) to (c) in paragraph 9 preceding,
and MOPT has strengthened its in-house capability to prepare economic-based
highway programs, including its road safety and training components.
Progress has also been registered in (d) to (g) of that paragraph, although
at a much lower pace than originally envisaged. The introduction of
computerized information systems for equipment and financial management has
just been implemented on a limited basis, and little progress was achieved on
the rationalization of the force account maintenance establishment. Delays
were also registered in the preparation of Departmental Highway Plans,
pending a clarification of the role of the different levels of Government in
the context of the ongoing drive to administrative and fiscal
descentralization. In addition, improved vehicle-axle-load control has been
hindu-red because of lack of equipment. The sector studies were carried out
successfully, bu- also behind schedule.
12.       Overall, the project has been instrumental in fostering
institutional development and in establishing an initial rapport with MOPT on
sectorwide issues. Improved institutional coordination was achieved, through
a participatory process approach leading to better internal communication
among MOPT's units. Improved contracting procedures and contract
administration for civil works contributed to speed up the letting of
contracts and pqyments, delays in which have been, in the past, a cause of
exacerbated cost increases and time overruns. The involvement of
labor-absorbing small cooperatives in the execution of routine maintenance
works has been very successful (with a multiplicative impact in terms of
unskilled employment generation and settlement) and has showed its usefulness



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
for replication elsewhere in the developing world. The basis was also
established, under the project, for an extended policy dialogue with MOPT on
pricing, regulation and investment matters.
B,   Rural Roads Projects
13.       The Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO, US$33.0 million, 1981) aimed
at strengthening the planning, managerial and central capability of the
National Rural Roads Fund (FNCV) in the rural roads subsector with the
purpose of developing this organization into an efficient planning and
funding agency for rural roads programs carried out by its departmental
branches. It assisted FNCV's 1981-1984 program involving construction of
about 2,000 km, rehabilitation of about 1,800 km and maintenance of about
4,600 km of feeder roads, and it provided technical assistance to upgrade the
management of the institution.
14.       After an initial delay of several months, execution of the project
started satisfactorily early in 1982 and has progressed well since. A
substantial decrease of the estimated road construction and rehabilitation
cost has allowed an increase from i,420 km to about 1,800 km of the length of
roads the execution of which is directly financed under the project.
However, it has required successive extensions of the closing date, from June
30* 1984 to December 31, 1986. Disbursements have reached 94X, and civil
works execution is reaching its conclusion. Procurement of maintenance
equipment for US$8.0 million was completed in 1985 In the first years of
project implementation, road mainteuance was not performed in compliance with
agreed targets; however, this has been corrected since 1984. All technical
assistance services were completed and have contributed to FNCV's
institutional strengthening.
15.       The Rural Transport Project (Loan 2668-CO, US$62.0 million 1986)
builds upon the results achieved under the Rural Roads Project and supports
FNCV's 1986-1992 Investment and Maintenance Program. It finances a slice of
this program and aims at: (a) supporting the Government's efforts on
agricultural development; (b) improving efficiency and diminishing cost of
rural transport; (c) upgrading FNCV's institutional performance: and
(d) developing, on a pilot basis, small scale water transportation in a
coastal area. This project is giving particular attention to the execution
of adequate rural roads maintenance programs. Execution of this project
started in the third quarter of 1986.
January 1987



- 68-                          ANNEX 7
amOl  NAiONA  NIGnWA    SECTO  PROJET
National Niglwa Fund
1.        The Fondo Vial Nacional (FVN) was created by Law 64 of 1967 to
plan, construct and maintain the national highways and inland waterways
networks. The Minister of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) is the legal
representative of FVN. Under the law creating FVN, it is established that it
will assist the Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales. By Law 30 of 1982,
assistance to the Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Colombia was added. Under Law
64 of 1967 as modified by Law 30 of 1982, FA7X is to transfer from the
earmarked taxes on petroleum automotive fuels: 10 to Fondo Nacional de
Caminos Vecinales, 102 to Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Colombia and 5% to
Corporacion Financiera del Transporte to fund urban transport operations.
2.       The revenues for FVN come from allocations from the National Budget,
earmarked taxes on oil products, tolls, services and sale of equipment and
materials not needed for meeting FVN's objectives, from the proceeds of
domestic and external credits and from other sources. Article 2 of Law 30 of
1982 modified the fuel tax created by Law 64 of 1967. This new article
establishes a tax equivalent to Col$ 13.50 on a gallon of: (a) regular and
extra motor gasoline, and (b) ACPM. Gasoline for aircrafts and marine diesel
were exempted. The amount of the tax will be increased, every time the price
of gasoline is increased, in an amount equal to the higher value between the
index of increase of the cost of heavy industry and the percentage of
increase between the new and old price of gasoline and diesel-oil. The index
to be used will be supplied by the National Statistics Department (DANE) or
by Banco de la Republica. By 1986, the tax has been increased to Col$ 26.49
(Table 2.4 of the report).
3.        Under Article 10 of Law 64, the Contraloria General de la Republica
is designated to exercise the fiscal surveillance of FVN and to issue fiscal
regulations in accordance with its operations.
January 1987



-69 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
SECOND NATIONAL HIGII S SgCOR PROJECT
Economic An.Zl ai Of the load Nad tenmee au  F        Pr 
1.        The economic evaluation of the Second Highway Sector Project for
Colombia was carried out in two stages. First, a number of overall
maintenance policies were evaluated for the entire road network (paved and
unpaved) to establish recommended mairtenance policies that would yield
maximum net benefits on different clauses of roads (in terms of surface type,
surface condition and traffic volume). Next, subprojects would be selected
and defined within the context of the recommended maintenance policies to
determine economic returns on investments for specific group of roads.
2.        The first stage of economic analysis was carried out using the
World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-III) which applies the
results of empirical research to the exploration of design and maintenance
policy alternatives for actual road networks. Given the data on existing
road characteristics and local conditions, with estimates of future traffic
volumes and composition, the model simulates the deterioration of roads and
the restorative effects of specified maintenance policies. The objective is
to determine that combination of standards and policies which results in the
minimum total life-cycle costs to society-including costs to road users as
well as costs borne by the highway authority .
3.        The roads comprising the National Highway Network were grouped into
broadly homogeneous classes according to surface type, existing condition,
and traffic volume. For each class, road deterioration and maintenance
activities over a 20-year analysis period were simulated for a number of
maintenance policies. Road maintenance costs and vehicle operating costs
were computed, discounted to the initial year, and subtracted from c.osts for
the "base case" (without project), giving the net preseDt value frr each road
class.
4.        Twelve maintenance policies were tested for paved roads and seven
for gravel roads (including the paving option). The policies were defined in
terms of different technical processes with specification of the
deterioration levels at which they would be applied. On paved roads, the
processes ranige from low-cost pothole patching, through periodic bituminous
resealing of the entire surface through more costly asphalt concrete
overlaying, to major rehabilitation and reconstruction of the base as well as
the surface. On gravel roads, the maintenance options consist primarily of
different frequencies of blading together with varying amounts of spot
regraveling and gravel resurfacing. The option of paving the gravel road,
when warranted by high traffic levels, was also examined as a possibility to
reduce the high costs of vehicle operation and gravel road maintenance.
Table 1 of this Annex summarizes the maintenance policies that were
evaluated, while Table 2 given the unit costs (in 1986 prices) of the
different maintenance operations.



- 70 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
5.        Traffic volumes were obtained from existing data compiled from
systematic counts at key locations in the road network.  Five vehicle types,
namely, cars,buses, and respectively, 2-axle, 3-axle and 5-axle trucks, were
used to represent the velicle fleet with characteristics and unit costs as
summarized in Table 3 of this Annex.  The traffic growth rate was taken as 4%
per annum for the initial period 1986 to 1989 and 3% per annum thereafter.
6.        On the basis of maximizing the net present values obtained with a
discount rate of 12% per annum, the recommended maintenance and
rehabilitation policies on the paved and unpaved networks are as summarized
in Tables 4 and 5 of this Annex respectively. The existing pavement
structures in Colombia are rather weak in relation to the current high levels
of traffic and the projected growth in the future. As a result, major
strengthening (by means of an 80 mm asphalt overlay) or reconstruction of the
pavement is recommended for paved roads that are currently in a badly
deteriorated state. On paved roads in good or fair condition, the
recommended policy is to do routine maintenance, including patching of all
potholes as they develop each year, and periodic overlays (50 mm) whenever
roughness levels exceed 4.2 of the International Roughness Index (IRI). The
frequency of overlays may be decreased to whenever roughness levels reach 5
IRI for roads with lower traffic volumes (less than 1000 vpd). The average
economic rate of return for the recommended policies on paved roads ranges
from 20% on the low volume roads to more than 100% on the very high volume
roads. The total net present value (discounted at 12% p.a.) for the
recommended policies on the paved network is US$887 million.
7.        On the unpaved network, the recommended policies are:  (a) to pave
roads with traffic volumes in excess of 250 vpd; and (b) to periodically
regravel the road surface and blade once after every 10,000 vehicle passes
for roads with traffic volumes in the range of 100 to 250 vpd. Gravel roads
with traffic volumes less than 100 vpd do not warrant regraveling, but should
be bladed one to three times a year. The economic rate of return ranges from
20% to about 70% for the paving options and 40% for the regraveling option on
the lower volume gravel roads. The total NPV (discounted at 12% p.a.) for
the recommended policies on the gravel roads is US$405 million.
8.        Computer printouts with details of the input data and economic
analysis are available in the Project File (Annex 16).
January 1987



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
COLOIMIA                       Page 3 of 7
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHIAYS SECTOR PROJEcT        Table 1
N4ateaaceAlternatives
PART A: Paved Roads
ALT.   PATCHING
NO.   (Z AREA OF         RESEALING              OVERLAY             RECONSTRUCTION
POTHOLES)
ALOO      50               none                   none                   none
ALOI     100                                                           at 8.5IRI
AL02     100
AL03     100      SST at 75% Cracked Area          -                      -
AL04     100      SST at 50%                       -                      -
AL05     100      SST at 25%    n     S t
AL06     100                -              50mm AC at 5IRI                -
AL07     100                -              50mm AC at 4.2IRI              -
AL08     100                -              Immed. 80mm OV+ALO6            -
ALO9     100                -              Immed. 80mm OV+AL07            -
ALIO     100                -                                    Immed. Recon.+AL06
ALlI    100                 -                                    Immed. Recon.+AL07
PART B: Unpaved Roads
Alternative        Blading                       Spot                  Gravel
number         Frequency                  Regraveliug             Resurfacin.g
ALOO       Every 100,000 veh-                20m3/km          150mm when gravel
passes but not more                                thickness falls
than 3 times a year                               below 50mm
ALOI       once/year                   30% of the gravel           n
loss but not more
than 20 m3/km
AL02       Every 15,000 veh. passes                                n
AL03       Every 10,000 veh. passes
AL04       Every  7,000 veh. passes
AL05       Every 4,000 veh, passes              n                  n
Paving Option
AL06       50mm A/C on 150mm of Crushed stone base and
250mm of gravel sub-base. SN a 2.70
Notes:  a)  Minimum interval between reseals or overlays - 5 yrs,
b) No reseals on surfaces with roughness greater than 5.8IRI
c) Reconstruction consists of 50mm AC on 50 mm open graded bitumen bound
base course (SN = 1.38).
d) All alternatives include routine maintenance such as drainage
cleaning, vegetation control, shoulder repair etc.
Source:  MOPT
October 1986



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
COLOHBIA                            Table 2
SSCOfl NATIONAL HIGOIVAS S9CTOR PROJECT
01it C"ost of Heaenn eOr-atioma
(8$ per applicatio)
PART A: Paved Roads
Maintenance Operation             Unit              Cost Type              Cost
Patching                           m2                 Fin.                  7.80
Econ.                6.40
Resealing (SST)                    m2                 Fin.                  2.86
Econ.                2,34
AC overlay (50 mm)                 m2                 Fin.                  8.54
Econ.                7.00
AC overlay (80 mm)                 m2                 Fin.                 13.66
Econ.                11.20
Reconstruction (AC)                m2                 Fin.                 14.00
Econ.               11.50
Basic Routine                    km/yr                Fin.               600
Econ.              492
PART B: Unpaved Roads
Maintenace Operation              Unit              Cost Type              Cost
Grading                            km                 Fin.               244
Econ.              200
Spot regraveling                   m3                 Fin.                  5.50
Econ.                4.51
Surface regraveling                m3                 Fin.                 15.50
Econ.               12.71
Basic routine                    km/yr.               Fin.                600
Econ.              492
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 73 -                         Page 5 of 7
COWUBIA                         Table 3
KEOMNAT=&lEA  RIGEVAYS SECTR PROJECT
Vblele Fleet Characteristics and Unit Costs (Econodic)
2-Axle     3-Axle        5-Axle
Item               Cars      Buses        Trucks     Trucks        Trucks
CHARACTERISTIC:
Gross vehicle weight (t)       1.3         9.7        13.5         22.0         36.0
ESAL factor                    0           0.3          2.70        4.17         6.07
Avg. payload (t)                .25        2.0          6.0        12.0         23.0
Recap cost ratio (%)          36          40          40           40           40
No. of passengers              2          30           0            0            0
Annual hours driven          450       1,200       1,300        2,000        2,400
Annual km8s  driven       26,000     60,000       65,000       70,000      72,000
Avg. vehicle life (yrs)        8           5           8            a            8
No. of tires/vehicle           4           6           6           10           18
Vehicle utilization code       1           2           3            3            3
Vehicle depr. code             2           1            1           1            1
UNIT COSTS (US$):
New vehicle cost           7,200      27,800      26,000       57,700      80,800
Tire cost                     50         142         138          196          196
Maintenance labor (per hr.)    .88         1.20         1.10        1.32         1.32
Crew time (per cre-, hr.)      -           1.82         1.68        2.64         2.64
Passenger time value (per hr.) .28          .14        -            -
Annual overhead (X)            0          23          23           22           21
Annual interest (X)           12          12           12          12           12
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 74 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
COLOMBIA                       Table 4
SECON NATIONAL IGHWdAYS SECTOR PROJIWr
Ecuaad  aiteanePolicies on the Paved Network
Average
Traffic Volume               Length                                            ERR
Range (pvd)    Condition  (kma)    Recommended Maintenance Policyl/          (M)
Greater than        Good       300    Regular AC overlays (50mm)
5000 vpd                              when roughness exceeds 4.2IRI            147
Fair      225           same as above                     147
Poor      226    Reconstruction of pavement or
thick overlay (80mm) (followed
by regular ov's at 4.2IRI               143
2000-5000 vpd       Good       964    Regular overlays (50 mm) at 4.21RI        70
Fair      723           same as above                      70
Poor      722    Reconstruction of pavement or thick
overlay (80mm) followed by regular
ov's at 4.2IRI                           60
1000-2000 vpd       Good       888    Regular overlays (50 mm) at 4.2IRI        47
Fair     1185           same as above                      49
Poor      888    Reconstruction of pavement or thick
overlay (80mm) (followed by regular
ov's at 4.21RI                           47
Less than 1000 vpd  Good       595    Regular AC overlays (50mm) at 5IRI        23
Fair      893    Regular AC overlays (50mm) at 5IRI        20
Poor     1488    Thick overlay (80mm) followed by
regular overlays at 4.2IRI               20
1/ All policies include: (a) Patching 100% of potholes each year, and (b) basic
routine maintenance consisting of vegetation control, drainage cleaning,
shoulder repairs and miscellaneous.
Source: .4OPT
October 1986



- 75 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
COLOMBIA                          Table 5
SECOOD NATIONAL UHGHWYS SECTOR PROJECT
Recom3ended Mbintenance Policies on the Uopaved Network
Average
Traffic Volume       Length                                               ERR
Range (pvd)        (km8)      Recommended Maintenance Policy1/          (X)
Greater than            46      Paving 2/                                  73
1000 vpd
500 - 1000 vpd         750      Paving 2/                                  39
250 - 500 vpd         3674      Paving 2/                                  20
100 - 250 vpd        4598       Surface regraveling 3
(every 4-6 years)
+ spot regraveling up to
20m3/km/yr + blading after
every 10,000 vph. passes                   40
Less than 100 vpd      993      Blading one to three times
a year + spot regraveling
/ All policies include basic routine maintenance consisting of vegetation
control drainage cleaning, shoulder repairs, and miscellaneous.
2/ A policy of regular AC overlays (50 mm) whenever roughness exceeds 5IRI is
assumed to follow paving options.
3/ Regraveling to 150 mm when thickness falls below 50 mm.
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 76 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 7
3C0011 NATIONA&       YS SEOR PROCT
Vralelm  Progrm
A. Objective
1.        The project training component aims to:
(a)  strengthen MOPT road maintenance activities through a comprehensive
trail`g program aimed to train about 70X of the projected staff in
all levels and categories;
(b)  improve the national structure for training of tIOPT personnel which
includes (i) the headquarters training section; (il) the Bogota
center, (iii) the regional coordinators; and (iv) the training
advisory committees.
B.  Description of the Training Program
2.        MOPT's training program for the period 1987-1992 has been outlined
in the context of the Action Plan on Institutional Efficiency and it is
intended to reflect the training needs assessment conducted by MOPT's
Industrial Relat 'n Directorate with the technical assistance of SENA. The
training program has remedial and developmental objectives: it would enhance
IOPT's institutional capacity in planning, coordinating and executing
training needs required to implement MOPT's pluriannual highway program. The
training program is expected to involve 6,300 MOPT personnel. The number of
trainees represents about 70X of the projected number of staff employed in
the corresponding areas of work. The enrollment by categories is projected
as follows: (a) managers, 170; (b) professionals, 335; (c) technicians, 375;
(d) foremen, 990; (e) operators and mechanics, 1830; (f) helpers, 640; and
(g) administrative and services, 1960. Table i of tbis Annex shows the
number of personnel to be trained by organizational function and categories.
Table 2 of this Annex shows the number of personnel to be trained by category
each year. The training program includes about 515 events in the form of
courses, seminars, fellowships abroad and on-the-job training.  About 265
courses will be organized and executed by MOPT's training section using
MNPT's own instructors and facilities. About 150 courses will be developed
under the agreement with SENA and about 100 courses will be contracted with
universities, private training institutions (mainly for training management)
and private firms (which sell road maintenance equipment). However, in all
cases, course contents will be defined by MOPT's technical specialists.
C. Components of the Trailing Program
3.      To implement the training program, financing would be provided under
the proposed loan for: (a) improvement of physical facilities and equipment;
(b) execution of the training program; (c) expatriates and local technical



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 7
cooperation and fellowships abroad; and (d) studies in selected subjects
related to program content, job description and evaluation.
D. Training Facilities and Equipment
4.        MOPT would remodel the Bogota training center in order to establish
appropriate training facilities such as classrooms, workshops and
accommodations for trainees. Four transportable workshops and classrooms
would be provided as means of improving the basic infrastructure for training
at regional level. Both in Bogota and the regions, additional training
equipment, furniture, spare parts and training aids would be prov   i to
facilitate and improve the quality of the training process. For training of
heavy machine operators, areae for practice and used machines would be
assigned in each region.
E. Execution of the Training Program
r0        The executing of the training program includes:  (a) per diem and
transportation for about 4,400 participants; (b) per diem and transportation
for six Instructors during 15 weeks per year; (c) training materials for all
courses to be executed directly by MOPT; (d) training to upgrade the
instructors' technical and pedagogical skills; and (e) financing for about
100 courses to be contracted with several universities and training
organizations within the country. The content of the courses would be
defined through the analysis of specific requirements of the occupational
groups. Provision has been made through the technical cooperation component
to hire foreign specialists to train MOPT Instructors and supervisors in
heavy machine operation and maintenance as well as training abroad for
selected MOPT staff,
F. Technical Cooperation
6.        Foreign consultants would be engaged to assist MOPT in the
organization and implementation of the training program for instructors,
supervisors, operators, and maintenance personnel of heavy machines.
Activities related to this technical cooperation include: (a) definition of
the priority levels for training; (b) preparation and execution of the
training courses for MOPT instructors; (c) determination of training
facilities, training material and training equipment requirements;
(d) preparation of manual and guidelines for organization of the training
programs; (e) preparation of the design and specifications for the
transportable workshop and classroom; and (f) design of a system for
monitoring and evaluation of the training courses. Local technical
cooperation for about 48 staff-months has been included to advise the
training section in the planning, organization and execution of the training
programs. Activities related to this local cooperation include:
(a) establishing and coordinating the training policies and strategy;
(b) updating the manpower training needs assessment; (c) improving training
curricula and learning mater:lal; (d) iproving coordination between the
training section and the operational units; (e) updating and expanding the
agreements with external training sources; (f) designing a monitoring
evaluation system for the overall program; and (g) upgrading of the personnel



- 78 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 7
in charge of administering and implementing the training programs.  Provision
has also been made to provide training abroad for five instructors,
six professionals of the MOPT training organization and 30 high level
professional staff. The latter would provide opportunity for a selected
group of MOPT staff of instructors, training section personwel, high- and
mid-level staff in highway planning, engineering and mainte.ance fields to be
exposed to technological development in other countries. Tables 3 and 4 of
this Annex show the technical assistance and fellowships program
respectively.
G. Studies
7.        Under the project training component, MOPT would update and expand
the number of occupational studies to define the skills and knowledge
required by all operation and maintenance occupations. These studies would
also permit the occupational itinerary of a group, or of occupational
families, to be defined in order to facilitate staff promotion and career
development. The project would also finance the preparation of a job
description manual for all MOPT personnel categories as well as specific
studies to evaluate the impact of the training program.
H. Administration of the Training Program
8.        MOPT's training section would be responsible for:  (a) planning,
organizing, implementing, and monitoring the training program;
(b) establishing agreement with external training agencies; (c) administering
the external technical assistance and the fellowships program for courses
abroad; and (d) evaluating the result of the training program. To facilitate
the training section's coordinating activities with the regions and
districtstmeetings would be organized twice a year to discuss the training
plan and implementation problems. The current functions and composition of
the National Advisory Committee would be reformulated and expanded to deal
with training policies, strategies and priorities; training advisory
cormittees would also be established in each region as part of the national
structure for training.
I. Cost Estimate
9.        The cost of the training component is estimated at US$2.2 million
equivalent, including price contingencies. Detailed estimates of the total
cost, and of its foreign exchange component, are available in the Project
File (Annex 16).
January 1987



-79 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 7
gOLOMBA                           Table 1
*To      lea   FBUCTORN PNOJ
Suinaw of Personnel to be Trai:ned
NyFunction and Ctgr
FUNCTION
Planning &   Technical Maintenance &  Administration &
CATEGORY        Pro2graming    SnUWort    Operation           Services       Total
Managers                   5            95            20                50         170
Professionals             35           165            15               120         335
Technicians               10           235                             130         375
Foremen                   --           560          430                            990
Operators and
mechanics              --           130        1,700                          1,830
Helpers                   --            --          640                            640
Administration and
services               15          215           105             1.625        1.960
Total                65        1,400         2,910             1,925        6,300
Source: MOPT
October 1986



° 80 -                         ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 7
OOIOIZAi!                         Table 2
MM     C.9ONL MMUfl cmPau
Pdrthe PJojcto 1 5-1M
Categorv          1981 198B         2t     1990    1991    1992    Total
Manage.s                 8       17      25       35       45      40       170
Professionals           20      35       50       65       80      85       335
Tectmicians             20      40       60       75       85      95       375
Foremen                 50     100      1SO      200      240     250       990
Operators and
mechanics            90     180      270      360      460     470    1,830
Helpers                 30      65       95      130      160     160       640
Administration and
services            1 M2    200               400     480      480    1,960
Total             318     637     950    1,265   1,550   1,580    6,300
Sour:o.  MOPT
October 1986



- 81 -                           ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 7
COLOMBIA                          Table 3
SamOND EAIOVAL IIGEVAY8 SBCTOR PROJECT
SummNvOf TeohdiAlssistance Ieuime au 1987-1990
(I staff-soaths)
Total
Area                    Staff-Nonths    1987    1988    1989    1990
Training organisation and
administration 1/                    48         12       12      12       12
Training in heavy machine
operation                            24         12       12
Training in heavy machine
repair and maintenance               24         12        6       6
Training in operation and
maintenance of auxiliary
equipment                            12                   6       6
108         36      36       24      12
Tical  osui      ta.
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 82 -                           ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 7
COLOMBA                           Table 4
E_N  NTONAL IGDWATS SCTR PROJECT
Summary of Fellowshpls Requirememts, 1987-1992
Tentative schedule
Staff      (in number of fellowships)
No.  Months  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Training specialists          6      9      1     2      2     1
Instructors                   5    10       1     2      2
Professionals                30    60       5     5      5     5     5      5
Total                   41    79       7     9     9      6     5     5
Source: MOPT
October 1986



- 83 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
COILONIA
MC=   ATONAL NIOU S SECR  PEOJECT
Studies under the Tecbnical Assistance Program
1.  Background. The technical assistance program is geared at supporting
the implementation of the policy and institutional efficiency Action Plan
(Annex 12). The program would concentrate on key issues identified during
project preparation and appraisal; the implementation of its recommendations,
as agreed with the Government during negotiations, would contribute to
address important bottlenecks to a more effective sector and subsector
management. The scope of the Program covers road transport regulation,
investment planning, budget programing and execution, and highway
administration.
2. aoad Transport Regulation. Consultant services would provide for
assistance in the review of selected regulatory and legal aspects affecting
the functioning of the road transport market, covering:
(i)  Legal Aspects of the Codes of Commerce and Transport
This study would address existing constraints for improved equity
in road transport contracts and insurance coverage, and for
intermodal transport services and containerization; and
(ii) Truck Domestic Assembly and Imprt Policy
This study would provide for a deep review of existing regulation
which may be hampering the introduction in Colombia of more
efficient truck units and combinations.
3.   Investment Planning.  Technical assistance services would assist in the
review and updating of the National Transport Plan, taking as background
existing sector studies and putting adequate emphasis on:
(i)  Objectives consistent wi.ih the strategy setup in the National
Development Plan;
(ii)  Economic role of the different modes of transport, in the context
of pricing policies covering the variables costs of infrastructure
use;
(iii) Potential for a more efficient inland movement of bulks, with
emphasis on inter-modal transfers;
(iv)  The role of the Sector Funds, in the fra.uwork of increasing
flexibility in sector financing arrangements;
(v)  The role of the private sector in the mobilization of resources for
direct investment in revenue-earning infrastructure facilities; and



- 84-                          ANNEX-O
Page 2 of 3
(vi) The role of the Transport Finance Corporation as a provider of
sector development finance, namely in support of freight
consolidation and other facilities, and as a financial intermediary
for the descentralized public sector agencies.
4.   Budget Programing and Execution.  Technical assistance services would
provide for the development and implementation of computerized management
information systems, including:
(i)  Monitoring of tbe Subproject Portfolio
Design and implementation of a complete system of project follow-up
for the transport sector covering both the preparing and execution
phases of all sector projects;
(ii) Rolling Pluriannual Investment Budget
Set-up of a moving multi-year budget, covering, Inter-alia, the
definition of methods of registration and the allocation of
responsibilities for addttional recording of budget transactions,
namely for contracts extending over two different budget periods;
and
(iWi) Monitoring the Performance of Sector Parastatals
Design and implementation of a system to allow for the follow-up of
the performance of the revenue earning sector agencies, including
the preparation of projection models for resources and
expenditures, balance-sheet data assembly, and indicators to
monitor productivity changes in key areas of the enterprises.
5. Highway Administration. The technical assistance services would cover:
(i) Surarvisien ofengineering studies
Strengthening of HOPT's capacity for execution and supervision of
engineering studies and updating of design norms;
(il) Materials Sources and Use cof Non-Conventional Materials
in Road Works
Updating of the study financed under Loan 1471-CO on sources of
traditional road construction and maintenance materials, expansion
to cover other regions, and inclusion of the analysis on
availability, use and possible sources of non-traditional
alternative materials;
(111)  Slope Anals
Continuation of the study financed under Loan 2121-CO to refine
design criteria and works execution norms for road construction and
slope stability In difficult terrain and unstable soils;



-85 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
(iv)  Pavement Analysis
Introduction of modern pavement surveying techniques to assess
pavement behaviour and performance, as an input to a continuous
follow-up and monitoring process;
(v) Technical Specifications
Review and updating of existing technical specifications to bring
them in line with present requirements; and
(vi)  Maintenance Man!agment
Strengthening of Districts capacity to program, execute and
supervise road maintenance works.
January 1987



- 86 -
Page I of 2
SO 11T1      ML N IATS ICOR RROJECT
Act-low            S          ll        ll
|                          Timing
SOOp 
March 197                      rmay 19o?
1, Sector Policy
(l) Road User Charges     - Increaso tolIs In lIne wItI - Implementatlon of system
heavy construction price       for analysis and monitor-
Index                         Ing of road costs and user
charges
(11) Transport Regulation  - Selectlin of list of         - Abollshment of the NatlonaI
and Trade Faci-         products for direct            Bill of Lding
litation                contracting In road
trensert
- Terms of roeferene for       - Short IIst of consultants
studles to review t.. Codes
of Commerce end Transport,
and truck doaostic assembly
and imocrt policy
- Work Program for Transpoet - Crotlon of the Transport
and Trade Facilitatlon         and Trade Folliltation
Moasuras                       Task Force
(ii) Investment             - Review of existing sector   - Terms of referenco for
studies                        National Transport Plan
- Economic evaluation of the  - Highway program 1967-1990
second group of roads          (physical)
2. institutlonal Efficiency
(1) Managerlal and        - T ers of Rofernce for pro- - Short list of Consultants
Budgeting Procsses      paretlon of computerized
systems for the monitorlng
of subproJect portfollo,
plurlonnual expenditure
program, end pfort ac.
of sector parstatal s.
- Review of criteria for         Creation of Task Force to
contract escalation           prepao recomondaticns
clauses, reshedaling, and
super lsio  co ts
- Functional review of sector - Proposal for strengthening
planning                      sector planning offtlo
- Definitlon of IntjrnI      - Tiam table for Impleaun-
control machanisms for         tation of the occounting
Pspoial acount                and auditing mn wals
(ll) Road Maintenance      - Stratgy to adjust force    - Initiation of lmpl_a-
Managemnot              acount *aintenance             tatlon
personnel
- Concludo data gatherIng for - Analysis of District
anelysis of District maln-    Maintenonce Expenditures
totanco expenditures In        In iIU
iMG.
,    _    _    _    ___        1



- 87 -
ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 2
Ae 1I Alm dves. Owol..Projc Prearaie  (intd)
Tlming
Scope
March 1987                   May 198?
liH) Road Maintenanc        - 6udget allocation for first - initiation of first stage
management (cont'd)       stage of equipment purchase  of prorur_et of equip-
ment, and of computer-
.Iation of central spares
managemant
- Initiation of preparstory   - Subdiroctorote de facto
arrangement for tho cre-      operational
ation of a Maintenance
Subdiroctorate
- Preparation of technical    - Invitations for bidding
specificatlons for porta-
ble vehicle weiglilng scales
(111) Clvili works Contract * Preparation of Terms of     - Short list of Consultants
Administration         Roference for assistance on
supervislon of studies and
preparation of design
standards, for materials
sources study end for study
on uncovontionai moterials
for road works
- Work program for continu- - Approval of program
atlon of slope studies
and traffic engineerIng
graduate courses
- Oplotion of contract for - initlation of tochnical
the review and updating of    assistance
technical specifications
!  Initiation of Improvements  - Implementatlon of new
iH  Public Works              Registry
Contractors Registry
- Program to expedite bidding - Implementation of program
and contracting procedures
and preparatlon of "ple
bidding documents
- Issuing of Contract Super-  - Strategy for ratlonall-
-                                                              vislon manual                  zation of contracted
supervision
(Iv) Personnel Trolning
- Progress re port on 1986    - Assigning of training
*                                                              training program and          coordinators to tho
initiatlon of nxt 5-year      Districts
program
- Policy statemnt on          - identification of forelgn
training and new greemt    sources for technical
"OPT/SENA                     asslstance program
- Trm  of Rference for        - TMs of Reforonce for
scholarship program           study to updao  occupa-
tional analysis end Job
doeription
May 1987



_~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ W'   .eio  Pi.iu7i
Obljctivs                Instrument                       Actns                        RowtlbittV            Tt-te             lct olsed
t. Sector Policy
11) Rod-User Charges
- Imp   equItv        Too Is in tbe       - Increse tolls for all vecle catortes   NOpT                   DeceMber of    Reduce the participatton
In recovery        natinal higbhay       in 11e wIt" bevy oestruction price                               coh year       of heav  to-t trucks In
frt users ot       ntwork.        1       ndw ad above thatp If required, for                                            long-emul transport.
raed cost.                                he    tw o   trucks,
- Ensure that all    Fuel taxws and       -  on itor rad costs, fuel costs and prtces,  MOPT/Buarntor    Dkobr of    Nointan  sers' coatrib.-
vehilet  catego-    rlning  1e-           an otwr ur  dcrges and adjust as                                each yar        ties to read cost reovery
rios are chagi      mats of to           requred,                                                                         at rocammnded leves.
for at oast th    road user dh-                                                                                                                               0o
aclated roa         gs systo. 
routine Ind
tunos costs.
(11) TA     t Rmlatlon and Trade FOcilItatIOn
- AdJusimat  in       Mmn Statutes of     - ImPlmteaon of recammedetions of read   SoOPT/Ourat              July  9s9       Docrease role of 6vrn-
te replatry         INRA.                 reglatton ad sevice  study an th  am                                            mn fi th rd tranport
trammork affect-                         role of I1R    ay from ecoomic re-                                               market.
too read tress-                          ties.
port services.
- lmprov oft t-       Revlew pollcy for    Appointmet of Inter-sinIsteriel task fore. POWTIfterenter 1      Deomor 1967  Redce transport costs
clecy ot roes;      dometic assbly                                                                                        an smin corritdors.
f tort,             and Impts of
Implement rcomeedtonsP                                         December 1969o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ x
o a
U       t.                                                                                       



*41
-~~~~~~~~~
Oblect I vls           Instrunt                           Actln                        RsIbll                Timina           lowt envlsaud
(11) Trenort Re"ulatlon  ad Trade Facilitation (coat.)
- Proxote            Simpilfication of   Ratimoal zation of contrls e fectlng            OPT                December 1967  Decrese the numr of
wider  se of      catrol macha-         starago. hndllng and traffic of                                                  lspections In contalner
contalies.         nis e.               contalnrs.                                                                       trattic.
Standardization      Nlrl ezation of truck bodies, platforms        P?                 Deceber 1987   Increass avalability of
of equipment.        and other transport eqipment.                                                     trucks for conteler trans-
port.
Procedural           Operational coordinatlon ang fNC,             W(PT                 ecembr 1987   Improve railway loading and
guidelines           COLPUERTOS and NWS                                                                unloading at the ports.
Tralning             Program for training of personnel In          "OPT                June 1988       Rationalize container
container bandllng techniques                                                     peration.
- Promote            Creatlon of the      Revlew for adoption of th UN Convention       "OPT                December 1968   Legalization of Intermodal
bultimodal         Jurldlc end          on Internatlonal  UItioanl Transport of                                          transport.
Transport.         Administrative       eoods.                                                                                                               C
Frameork.I
- Docrese the        Insuranco            impleamnt compulsory Insurance pollcy.        IOPT                June 1989       Generalize risk coverage.
risk of
transport.
Transport            Revise Code of Comierce.                      MoPT/Guarantor     DOcember 1989  Improve equity In the
contract                                                                                               transport contract, among
shipper, transporter and
lnsuranoe coany
- institution-      Transport and         Annual report of legal, administrative and   NOPT                 January of      Monitoring of Impect and
all2e coordi-      Trade FacilI-        operational measures undertaken, and work                         each year       followup.
nation of          tation Task          program*
facilltatlon      Force.
o _
x
o ,u



Obloctives              Instr_met                          Actlora                     Resmonsibi I ItV      Timina            lzsact envissoqd
(III) PuOICllc  ngE  on
lIprove resource    National Transport - Approval and initiation of Implementation.  NOPTGbTuarantor        Decesber 1988    Greater responsiveness
allocation.          Plan                                                                                                     of Investment planning to
iacro-economlc objectives
and Increasing floxclbl-
llty In funding mcha-
nIsms.
2. InstItutIonal EfficIence
(11 NPnaemrlal and Budoetary Aseects
Iprove coordi-      Set up a complete  - Design of system and discus3lon.             mPT                  August 1988
nation betwoen       systee for monl-
budgeting pro-       toring of sub-    - Definition of Indleators.                     NDPT                OCtober 1988       Correction of problems
graslng and          projects.
execution.
- Development of registratlon system.          "OPT                October 1988       Reduction of executlon
sl ppages.
- Pilot experiment.                            NOPT                January 1989 9
- IncorporatIon Into the system of projects   "OPT                Iby 1989            DsamestratIon effect for
at executIon stage.                                                                 other sector agencIes.
- Training.                                    NOPT                July 1989
- Impl_eentatIon.                              IOPT                October 1969
- Tralning.                                    NOPT                NC-ember 1989
- Evaluation, readjustment and review of       ICPT                December 1989
reporting systems.
Revieww procedures  - Review of Indexes.                          NOPT                 August 1987       Expedited works exe-
for price esca-                                                                                          cutlon; reduced costs.
latIon and for
reschedullng of    - Investigalon of reasons for delays and       NOPT                 August 1987
works.               rescheduling attrlbutable to IOPT and
formulation of recaomendatlons for
correctIon.
* z
D X
* _n
x
o  j
in



Oblectives               Instrument                          Actlons                      ResoonsibilIty        Titulna            Impact envisaged
(I) Kanasrial and udoetgry AsDets (conted)
- Revision of Indexess  redefinition of          WOPT                 Decebeier 1987
components.
- Review of delays, Impleentation of             MOPT                 February 1968
recommendattons.
- Review of tndexess  dato collection.           KDPT                 February 1988
- Drafting of imple m  tatton norms.             mOPT                 April 1988
Achleve further      Adoption of a       - Internal task foroe.                            MOPT/Guarantor      August 1987        Selection of projects
Integration          rolling, pluri-                                                                                              according to sectoral
betwen the           annual budget                                                                                                priorities.
planning nd
the budgettng                            - Systmss destgn and pilot experlimnt.           YOPT                 Juty 1988
proceses.
- Development of computertzed system.            KOPT                 September 1988
- Incorporation of deta and integration with      OPT                 January 1989
other computerized Inforatlon systems.
- Evaluation and adjustment.                     KOPT                 April 1989
Systemettze the      Preparatlon of      - Task force.                                    N1PT/7c                                            feantor
budgeting and        ftnancial pro-                                                                            August 1987        Reduction of unestaln-
financial re-        Jectton models                                                                                               ties and allowance for
lationships          and preparation                                                                                             tiely decision-asking.
between Central      of balance
Goverfment and       stateoents.
the parastatals.                         - Development of models.                          OPIT                may 1968
- Testtng of models.                            YOPT                  July 1988
- Drafttng Instructlons.                        KOPT                  September 1988
- Drafttng of norms and testtng of formats      MOPT                                                   v z
for monthly balances.                                               December 1988                      z
.. b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
o _
a



-92-
~~~~~.i  Ii|  iIi) 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE 12 X S     
-   )
|1 fF



Objectlves              Instrumnt                          Actions                     ResponsiblIIti         Ttming            Impact envtsaed
(t) Naneasrtal mad Budo V Aspets (contsd)
idoptaon of a          Task forces.       .                           PT/Guaantor        Daeebr 1987    Establisblet of a pro
bsystlng                                                                                                   cedue leading to
sust   based                                                                                               frtuent review of
upon discus-                                                                                               adnInistrattve pro-
lnst beten                                                                                                 cedures.
technical areas,                                                                                           cfr
bine.et and          - Budget preproatton.                           OPT                 Febry 1988    Resource tsa'ings.
p lanalag.
- Drafting of a documet su_Irztng              NOPTJune 1988                           Onstrations to other
axperience.                                                                         Go gmices.
Ioprove NPT's    Update and             - CoMPltIon of accunting and auditing          NOPT                 Oceeber 1987
accounting         consolidats           eanuels.
and  uditttng      ccounttng and        - lmplementatton of computerized accounttng    NOPT                  Ocedber 1988      increased effectiveness
procedures.        auditing  .            system.                                                                             of control and SaciliI
procedures.                                                                                                oatin of  amanaer il
decisions based "Doi
better infonration.
(II) Roead Maitenac Pbaunaeant
Strengthen         Establish a          - institutionalize the ftintenance             NOPT/Guarantor       DOeeesbr 1988    Untficetion of mmtn-
maintenoance       Centrol unit           Sub-Directorate.                                                                    tenance adainistration.
arganItatton       responsible for
and planning.      planning,
asecution and        - Ineorporation of mintenaneo planning Into  MOPT                   December 1968
monitoring of          the Sub-Directorate.
maintenanee.
Estabitsh a          - Approval of recOMMendatlons for estabiish-  NOPT                  August 1987       Permeoent po;tcy on
pavement mna-          ment of a pbvement wanagement system                                                construction, periodic
gement system.         (PJ4.S..                                                                            Maintenance and rebabl-
ltation of pavements.
-D D
a z
om
x
o h



- 94 -
814        3.                ~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 12
- lIPage I Xof 9
ii                     0 _         0l4  tX}o    
{  | i    Z a t ij i E     t       -}i tg2 
^ |    | 8 i |! s~~~i r     i  t 0E   
- r 
'liii   ii  ii~~~~~~~~A



V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oblwctives       Instrument                              Actlons                     ResponstbitI1y          Timing             Insect envisaewd
(It) Road Maintenance Manaomment (ccontd)
- Systematization of spare parts to                                   June 1988
be estabitshed In all districts.
Improve         Systematic           - Work program to increase systematizatlon      NOPT                  August 1981    BStter equtpmnt control&
equipment        control of            of control of asvalabIlity, uttlitzatton                                            establtshmnt of operating
rmnagemsnt       equipment.            and cost of equipmet from SO% to 100%.                                              costs.
"Sstem.
- Systematization otf  qutipmnt control         KOPT
to be introduced tn accordance wtth                                 December 1967
targets.
Programtng of       - Completion of first phase of equipment        "OPT                  December 1988  Rattonalizatlon of the
equtpment             procurement.                                                                        fleet.
procurement.
Vehicle weight   lmplementation      - Portable scales operational.                  KOPT                  June 1986
control          of approved
wetghing scales     - Installatton of dynamic scales.               MOPT                  Doember 1988  Decrease of overloading and
program,                                                                                                  pavemant deterioratton rate.
(fit) Ctvil Works Contract Admtnistration 
lmprovo        ODfferent types      - Complete contracttng of censultants.            mOPT                 December 1987   loprovement of engineeolng
quality of       of studies,                                                                                               studies and decrease of
engineer4na      assistance on                                                                                             construction costs.
studtes and of  superviston of
technical        studies#
specificmttons. preparation
of design norms.
I* ,
o Z
ei Z
x
o0



-96-
*        j   .91 a t           _    ANNEX 12
p             ~ ~~~~~~~~Page 9of 9
Xl            I  ! ti    I   j  Iil
S!       }   ~~~~i  i      it  Ji
I               ii t  E      t   -
A :'         S   Sf   is-    S}       S!
S:  1t;nn  -X! it i                    !  
Nj X'iJ C XI  F                a          .
00~~~~~~i



- 97 -
ANNEX 13
,001011
g~I0.MIAIM      Mt~~
NM  P2lmH.Iv E6f MMww
IPT's ftwI? Tar19sts  19_99                                              3
*                                               1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~987  1968  199  1990     191       1992      1993
Financial Taros
Annual Incree In line wit  hy construction price Index
Road Tolls
Below  0
Force Account Maintenance Ratio 2/
Investamnt Taraots
Km of Paving of Gravel .ads                            450       420      430       430       420       390       .80
Kn of PRved Road Rehabil tation                        400       390      410       400       420       450       4?0
It of Grav l Road Rehabilltation                                 280      550       550       550       550       620
Km of lbriodic Maintenance                             680       635      670       620       910       970     1,080
Km of Ontracted Rutino Maintenance  /                6,300     7,700    6,900    10,200    11,700    13,500    15,600
gm of Horizontal Marking                               S00    1,000    1,000      1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000
Km ot Vertical Slgnallztlon                           400       600      600       00        610       600       600
m of Safety Oariers                                     20        20       20        20        20        20        20
Oraanizegtonai Tats
Contracted Mintoence Ratio CS)                          26        26       26        30        31        31        33
Productivity !/                                          1.7       1.9      2.1       2.3       2.6       2.6       2,6
Introduction of PIve_t Managmet System ()               10       33       67        100       100       100       100
introductoln of Equipmet Managmn System ()             40        60       100       100       100       100       100
Trailnng Courses (No.)                                  25        90       75       100       130       135         -
Trainees (Nm.)                                         318       631      950     1,265     1,550     1,580         -
Instructors lUgraded (No.$                                                                                          -
Tralning To¢bnical Coopera*lon (No. of stafftnths)    36          36       24        12         -         _
Training Fellowships                                     7         9        9         6         5         5         _
Training Studies                                         1         -        3         -         1         1         -
E2 Ependitures for labor plus administration vwsus routine and perlodlc maintenanco emndituras for force account
opratlons.
3   Using labormbsorvIng miro-nterprises.
/ Contracted routine and perlodic mIntoanc  over total.
K Ktas of routine tminenceyear pr employe  In th  force account organlzatlon.
Source  10PT and missian
April 198'



- 98 -                           ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SEOOND NATIONAL HIGHIIAYS SECTOR PAOJBCT
fusibility Criteria
1.        In general, the eligibility criteria for rehabilitation and paving
subprojects would depend on the Bank's approval of a Basic Data Sheet (BDS)
prepared by MOPT for each subproject summarizing key data concerning
engineering, design standards, economic evaluation, cost estimates, and
schedule for detailed engineering, tendering and construction, including
division into lots. These BDSs would be similar to those used under the
First Highway Sector Project (Table I of this Annex).
2.        In particular, the following criteria would apply for the
eligibility of rehabilitation and paving subprojects:
(a)  execution of those that were declared eligible under the First
Highway Sector Project would be continued under the proposed
project after acceptance by the Bank of a BDS confirming the
justification of investments still to be made; subprojects that
were declared eligible under the Nevado del Ruiz emergency program
would not require approval of a BDS;
(b)  those that were initiated with MOPT's own financing would be
declared eligible for financing under the proposed project after
approval by the Bank of the BDS and of the procedares used in
awarding the contracts, which should oe in accordance with
procedures established for LCB under the proposed project
(para 4.07 of the text); and
(c) those to be initiated under the proposed loan would be declared
eligible after acceptance by the Bank of the corresponding BDS.
3.        The following eligibility criteria would apply fer other civil
works:
(a) for periodic maintenance subprojects, MOPT would prepare specific
work packages for contracting based upon a detailed condition
inventory of the corresponding road sections and general
maintenance policies established through the use of the HDM model;
and
(b) for civil works for safety and training, MOPT would prepare and
submit the dercription of works, their estimated value and the
schedule of implementation.
4.       For purchase of equipment, NOPT would prepare and submit the list,
type and estimated value of the equipment and the scheduled repartition of
lots and the justification in relation to the requirements.



- 99 -                         ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3
5.        For studies and technical assistance, MOPT would prepare detailed
terms of reference, manpower budget, cost estimate and schedule of
implementation.
January 1987



-100-                          ANNX 14
Pagen 3 -f 3
COLOUIA                          Table 1
SECONDATICEA  EIGEVA   SECTOR PROJEr
Sumn Dta Sheet foz Cead1date futro sects
1.   Basic Data                    Road                    Existing  Proposed
Rehabilitation                Length (km)
Paving                        Cross section:
Riding surface (m)
Shoulders (i)
Pavement type
2.   Traffic
car     bus    C2    C3    C5    Total
Base Year
Annual Growth Rate
3. Vehicle Opr&ting Costs 1/
car     bus    C2    C3    C5   Roughness
Without case
With case
4.   Investment Estimate
5.   Economic Data
Economic Rate of Return:
ERR with 20% Increase in Investment:
6.   Tender
Tender
Completion Time
Tentative Budget Allocation
1/ Economic VOC, excluding passengera time values.



- 101 -                          ANNEX 15
Page i of 2
ODON9I
ffOOU  EAIGISA UIQUVS sCi0R PRWJEC
Accuntmsand Audtita
A. General
1.        Accounting principles and practices applied In Colombia are now
regulated by Decree No. 2160 of 1986 (July 9). This regulation also covers
the preparation and presentation of financial st3tements. It establishes a
permanent council for its revision and its update. This council is attached
to the Ministry of Economic Development. However, since these principles and
practices have just been promulgated, they are not currently In effect by
?IOPT, whose records, to a large degree, reflect the budgetary system of
Government accountingo
B. Accounting
2.        FVN's accounting and financial functions are the responsibility of
the Commercial and Financial Directorate, which is composed of the Budget and
Accounting,, Treasury and Commercial Divisions and the Section of General
Services. The accounting system is operated on the basis of the Government's
Manual of Accounting applicable to all Public Sector Institutions, which has
been approved by the Contraloria General de la Republica (CGR). A new
Accounting Manual for FVN is under preparation In conLjunction with CGR and it
is expected that it would be fully operational by December 1988 (para 3.15 of
the report). Also, MOPT is in the process of implementing a computerized
accounting system, for which some parts are already in operation, and it is
expected that the full system will be completed and operational by December
1988 (Annex 12). The Accounting Section keeps separate accounts to reflect
the activities of MOPT and FVN; it also preparea monthly and annual financial
statements which are submitted to CGR for review and audit. In the recent
past, the annual financial statements have not been presented on a timely
basis to CGR for their audit. Causes for these delays are:0 (a) data from
the Districts is late in arriving at MOPT f or its recording; and (b) the need
to conform the records to the final budgetary allocations, which normally
takes place at the end of December of each year-the end of the fiscal
year-and recording of these changed allocations is normally completed by the
middle of February of the following year. These sets of events also delay
the audit of the financial statements for the First Highway Sector Project
(Loan 2121-CO).
C. Auditina
3.        M4OPT's and FVN's accounts are audited by Government auditors (CGR).
CGR has the responsibility for performing the audit of the accounts for all
Government agencies. Through its fiscal auditors, pre-audits are performed
for all expenditures and approval of financial statements. These fiscal
auditors do not necessarily have a financial background.



- 102 -
AMNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
4.        The Contraloria, through its International Finatnce Audit Division,
is also responsible for the performance of international external audits.
Auditing of numerous public entities receiving international loans has become
a formidable task that goes beyond the present capacity of the staff of the
Contraloria, which, coupled with the delays from those entities in presenting
the financial statements and accounts for audit, causes the delay in
complying with the loan covenants relating to audits.
5.        Audit reports under Loan 2121-CO are required to be furnished to
the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year. However, PVN has
not met this requirement on a timely basis. The audit report for 1984 was
completed and sent to the Bank by CGR in October 1985. The report for i985
was received in February 1987. MOPT staff claims that a date four months
after the year-end is not realistic because the actual closing of the records
does not take place until end-February in order to record all the activities
from the Districts and the adjustments required by the changes to the Budget
enacted just before the year-end. CGR and MOPT should agree on a time table
that would allow for an 'intetim" audit and to procedures which would
expedite the completion of the report for timely submission to the Bank,
6.        It is expected, as mentioned befere, that the improvements in the
accounting system would permit preparation of financial statements on time
for Contraloria to produce timely audit reports (Annex 12). Contraloria's
audit reports would be furnished to the Bank as soon as available but, in any
case, not later than six months after the end of the first fiscal year; five
months after the close of the second fiscal year; and after the third fiscal
year four months after the end of each fiscal year.
7.        Under the project, the Bank would require two types of audits:  an
annual audit of the Special Account maintained in the Banco de la R publica
and an annual audit of the accounts of FVN. The opinion and audit of the
Special Account should comment on the management and utilization of the
Special Account funds in accordance with sound accounting principles and the
related Loan Agreement provisions.
April 1987



- 103 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 5
COLONBIA
inOcD NATION" UGuVhs SECTOR flOJEC?
klatAd Docuueate and Data Available In the Prolect File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1.   Colombia.  Transport Sector Strategy Paper, August 9, 1985 (Green
Cover).
2.   Colombia.  Public Investment Program Review-Transport Component,
January 24, 1986.
3.   Colombia.  Ports Rehabilitation Project, SAR, October 24, 1985
(Buff Cover),
4.   Colombia,  Seventh Railway Project, Mid-Term Review, May 21, 1985.
5. Estudio sobre los Impuestos a los Usuarios de las Carreteras, MOPT,
Noviembre 1985 (Two volumes).
6.   Estudio de los Servicios y Reglamentos del Transporte por Camion,
MOPT Junio 15, 1986 (Nine volumes).
7.   The Transport Sector in Colombia:  Managerial and Institutional
Aspects of Investment Programing and Budgeting, September 1986.
8.   Estudio sobre Revision de Aspectos de Reglamentacion y Facilitacion
del Comercio Exterior y del Transporte en Colombia, October 1986
(Two volumes).
9.   Estructura de Precios, ECOPETROL, 1986.
10.   Normas Organicas, MOPT, 1985
11.   Ley 30 de 1982, Historia Documental, MOPT/FNC, 1982.
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
12.   Colombia.  Proposed Second Highway Sector Project.  issues Paper
with final Project Brief attached, November, 1986.
13.   Colombia.  Proposed Second Highway Sector Project.  Decision
Memorandum, December 10, 1986.
14.   Aides-Memoire of the Identification, Preparation, Pre-Appraisal and
Appraisal Missions, March 14, April 25, July 31 and Octobr 23,
1986.
15.   HDM Computer Print-Outs on the Economic Analysis of the Highway
Maintenance and Paving Program, October 1986 (3 volumes).



- 104 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 5
16. Reprogramacion Financiera de la Cartera de Proyectos del Fondo Vial
Nacional,  MOPT, November 1986.
17.   Analisis y Pronuesta para Fortalecimiento de la Planeacion
Sectorial, MOPT, April 1987.
18.   Estudlo de un Sistema de Seguiatento de Proyectos, Presupuestos
Plurianual Movil y el Establecimiento de Indicadores de Eficiencia
Incluyendo los Organismos Adscrltos, MOPT, April 1987.
19.   Plan Maestro de Transporte, Terminos de Referencia,  MOPT,
April 1987.
20.   Proyecto de Modificacion al Decreto 2330 de 1986 "Estatuto de
Transporte Terrestre de Carga", INTRA, April 1987.
21.   Estudio para actualizar la Legislaciot del Transporte Terrestre de
Carga, NOPT, April 1987.
22.   Estudio sobre la Fabricacion y Ensamble de Vehiculos de Carga en
Colombia, NOPT, April 1587.
23.   Tarifa de Peaje, MOPT, April 1987.
24.   Grupo de Trabajo de Transporte para la Facilitacion del Comercio,
MOPT, April 1987.
25.   Cartera de Subproyectos, MOPT, April 1987.
26.   Hojas de Datos Bardcos de Proyectos Elegibles para Financiacion
bajo el Posible Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Carreteras, MOPT,
April 1987.
27. Resolucion y Documentos de Adjudicacion de Coatr.atos Iniciados por
el Fondo Vial Nacional, MOPT, January 1987.
28.   Terminos de Refereacia para Estudios, MOPT, 1986.
(a) Estudios Socioeconomicos
(b) Estudios de Carreteras - Paae I
(c) Estudios de Carreteras - Pase II
(d) Estudios de Carreteras - Fase III
(e) Plan de Pavimentacion de Vias Secundarias
(f) Plan de Rehabilitacion de Carreteras Nacionales
(g)  Estudio de Puentes
(h)  Elaboracion de Proyectos de Interseccion
(i) tmpacto Ambiental
29.   Terminos de Referencia Generales "Interventoria y Asesoria para
Supervision de Contratos de Estudio", MOPT, April 1987.
30.   Terminos de Referencia "Estudio Cotplementario de Materiales
Marginales", MOPT, April 1987.
31.   Programa de Investigacion de Deslizamientos, MOPT, Aprll 1987.



- 105 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
32.   Lista Corta de Consultores para Estudio de Fuentes de Materiales,
MOPT, April 1987.
33.   Terminos de Referencis - "Estudlo de Criterios Evaluacion de
Subproyectos", FONADE, MOPT 1986.
34.   Costos de Construccion y Conservacion de Carreteras, MOPT, 1986.
35.   Terminos de Referencia - Restructuracion del Indice de Costo en
Construccion de Carreteras del MOPT, MOPT, April 1987.
36.   Rssolucion 2624 "Reglamento del Registro de Constructores del MOPT,
MOPT, April 19870
37.   Contrato para Actualizacion de Especificaciones y Normas Generales
de Construccion de Carreteras, MOPT, April 1987.
38.   Manual de Supervision Teenica de Contratos, MOPT, 1986.
39.   Componente Importado en la Construccion de Carreteras, MOPT, 1986.
40.   Plan Nacional de Seguridad Vial - Programa de Inversiones, MOPT,
1986.
41.   Informe de Actividades de Seguridad Vial, MOPT, April 1987.
42.   Resolucion No. 8360, "Comite Directivo de Mantenimiento", MOPT,
1986.
43.   Resolucioa  2625 "Unidad de Mantenimiento Vial", MOPT, April 1987.
44.   Manual de Supervision Tecnica de los Distritos, MOPT, 1986.
45.   Analisis de Costos de Mantenimiento a traves de Microempresas
Asociativas, MOPT, 1986.
46.   Costos Consolidados Presupuesto Ano 1986 de los Distritos, MOPT,
1937.
47.   Programa de Adquisicion de Equipos, MOPT, 1987.
48.   Licitacion Basculas Portatiles, Especificaciones Tecnicas,
Cronograma y Recursos, MOPT, 198i.
49.   Plan de Accion para la Sistematizacion de Almacenes de Repuestos
del MOP', MOPT, 1986.
50.   Manejo Cuenta Especial, MOPT, 1987.
51. Red de Comunicaciones del MOPT, 1987.
52.   Agilizacion de los Tramites de Licitacion y Contratacion, MOPT,
1987.



- 106 -                           ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 5
53.  Tabla de Costos Basicos del Componente de Entrenamiento y
Estimacion de su Componente Extranjero, MOPT, 1986.
54.   Estudio de Necesidades de Capacitacion, MOPT/SENA, 1985.
55.  Estructura de los Cargos de Empleados Publieos en el MOPT, 1986.
56.   Itinerarios de Formacion Profesional, MOPT, 1986.
57.   Planes de Estudios y Programas Analiticos, MOPT, 1986.
58.   Listas Basicas de Equipo para Entrenamiento en el Centro de Bogota
y Cursos Moviles, MOPT, 1986.
59.   Propuesta de Convenio de Asistencia Tecnica, ICIC/MOPT, 1986.
60.   Gula para el Manejo de los Cursos del MOPT, MOPT, 1985.
61.   La Industria Pesada de la Construccion, SENA, MOPT, 1985.
62.   Terminos de Referencia para Programa de Becas, MOPT, April 1987.
63.   Politicas de Capacitacion y Programa 1987, MOPT, April 1987.
64.   Convenio SENA, MOPT, April 1987.
65.   Informe de Acciones adelantadas por la Direccion de Relaciones
Industriales en Politica de Administracion de Personal, MOPT, 1986.
Co Documents Related to the Action Plan
66.   Decreto del Nuevo Estatuto de Transporte de Carga, MOPT, 1987.
67.   Decreto Creacion Grupo de Trabajo para Estudios del Sector
Transporte, MOPT, 1987.
68.   Pedido Oferta para Actualizacion Estudio Impuesto a Usuarios de
Carreteras, MOPT, 1987.
69.   Agilizacion Tramites de Licitacion y Contratacion, MOPT, 1987.
70.   Cronograma para Reorganizacion y Sistematizacion Almacenes de
Repuestos, MOPT, 1987.
71.   Cronograma de Tre' io para Preparacion Manual de Contabilidad,
MOPT, 1987.
72.   Pliegos de Condiciones Tipo para Adquisicion de Bienes por
Licitacion Publica Internacional, MOPT, 1987.
73.   Pliegos de Condiciones Tipo para Construccion de Obras Publicas por
Licitacion Publica Internacional, MOPT, 1987.



- 107 -
ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 5
74.   Politicas Adoptadas para Racionalizar los Costos de Interventoria,
MOPT, 1987.
75.   Decreto de Apertura de Licitacion por Basculas Portatiles, MOPT,
1987.
76.   Programa de Adquisicion de Equipos MOPT, 1987.
77.   Unidad de Mantenimiento Vial, MOPT, 1987.
78.   Vinculaciones y Desvinculaciones de Personal de Mayo 1, 1986 a
Abril 1, 1987, MOPT, 1987.
79.   Coordinadores de Programas de Capacitacion, MOPT, 1987.
80.   Analisis Ocupacional para Cargos de Trabajadores, MOPT, 1987.
81.   Solicitud Propuesta Asistencia Tecnica para Capacitacion, MOPT,
1987.
May 1987
f
.



Qrganisatios of the Ministry of Public works and Tranport (Ur)
II.                       r -    - - 0             -_ S
I        I              a                      _ 
Ndbnd HWWM Fu        lII                          
Io"                    N
bn U  ~~-1 1I
danond lwFndI 
~j  Pubic Waftc   IrMapoM,toflono k
RdiCNIe~        - I LII                                                            |                          '
boolvoimb  Phok*ftnxWT
At C~                4                                                                   
0da ~~~~~                                                                                  L I 
4~~~ I                                                         1          ~m~ 
Coooff*kn Nc
=  I 
vk(s LPIR        I -   r                                                                                                                   I
WoteH an Dmdfrd Nam                                     Red   I                ood0I                 dC
9f- and _vi.
----L Comahw                                                                                                                                o0
No__an an         N_and _-t                 0an_.tot anpd usCo                   kdw" b t*
O~r.ctoa2s  Potst DIrecoraft    iropetw Diucloratsft                     mirkotOkCtO*           okw bo$~ 
- -   ---D qnww  Pin  oOrdunWWQoe$a
SO   MOb r
October 496
0*                                                                        *       q



- 109 -
I it                            CHART II
*                                      i,.j, j         l ii
r-lIL--JL ____             
It   11,1                                                 .
3E~~~    ji                                    'ml,.~~~~!,



* ~ ~  ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~         ~         e S
75*                                                                                          7-                                            72
0         S0        100        tS0       200        250        300
COLOMB I A                                                                       KILOMETERS
0                S0              100              150              200                                                               12I
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK                                                                                  MILES                              a_                                                                I
RjIOHACH 
Paved trunk roads
Paved roads
Unpaved roads
@  MOPT districtsEl(o-
Railroads                                                      BARRANQUhLLA"      e4.oga  yoe
Ra.iroad discontinued                                             M(obleo                   , F                       / -              A
o    International airports                                                t                                                       P:, f,,y
Paved airports                                                  Sbraog                          .ii 
*    Unpaved airports                                               p.w os *4p       FldoC.    vwu*
CARTAC,E.AQ   -b                                                                                -
Seaports                                          o                         oo         * 0    Po 4flw
River ports            r.rdio  \                                                                                  e 8   VOICe  :  MaA4                                               B
Navigable rivers              /                                          CoIo o,
Other rivers                                   ;                                                                                                       w
Elevations above 1400 meters 
Department boundaries                ~Oo                       ~        -        
-International boundaries                              Tt
__ ~~~~~~~~~~~o Aces 9                         0IJOt*o            Jao'X.f    */   --oei,osvos  \ t.)o i.iy 2
1 35-XXrdnsll 9;1o....... . .                                                                 d\   H r
N                                           @  S~~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~INCF EJO  Cho.          -
MON rER  Yea ,'o.o                                        Ltv.a         -  
Pi0~~~tto i..0  ~ ~ ~ ~ .o.eot;o *    "    ~ ~ ~ ~ p                       1W oaCoI.to  \~ o
r~~c  CocP~.ro      ~~TA
~~  T*i*~~~~~~O>  Co~~~~~~r,poe ~ ~  ~        ~       CC                                    alsf bmTM viA1Oa
-1235~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To6                                                                                                                               1=1I="
~~~01  so 1-rcolk,401"10~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rcoNo1
63   07;o        -           iy              ~       ~                   e~..            OoCr.
Pro M.,r,.          MEDELL N   ~~~~~~   ~,b*                                                                               toOCroo   /



"N                                                    '~~~~l  Ar.J.o   ~~~~~~0LO..         0tO'             -      .to           o.de 4~
/ANDRES                                                    PnIOd
30KM
0  1  2 M.11                   ot,~~~~~ C",       , ,it                                     Oto              *a af   aU   0,,
Al~~~~~~~~ fd,m                          SR.o.oIe du
S. Fe~~~~~~~~~4
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Lobog.,rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ro    ?~~~~~~~de i
CA      'Colo                6So,,  do A,o,,o                   o                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH
-  T4  V,lIo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.c. ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~.AMERICA
t*lo0                                                                     amwa,ta,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no~*0 *OGT
Berbrnoos ~  ~        P.,"
fpo.,,o                                                                                           -%mC,.
08,GOTA0W,
(0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: wf
~~~~~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ I A--



