Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14735
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2829-CO)
JUNE 30, 1995
Infrastructure and Operations Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Colombian Peso (Col $)
US$ I              =      Col $ 225.0 (mid - February 1987)
Col $ 1,000               US$ 4.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                    British/US Equivalent
I meter (m)              =      3.281 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)         =      0.62 mile (mi)
I kilogram (kg)          =      2.20 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m ton)     =      2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COLFECAR    Colombian Union of Road Transports
COLPUERTOS Colombian Port Authority
CONPES         National Council for Economic and Social Policy
DNP            National Planning Department
DRI            Integrated - Rural Development Fund
DTF            Directorate of Fluvial Transport - MOT
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FERROVIAS   Colombian Institute of Railways
FNC            Colombian National Railways
FNCV           National Rural Roads Fund
FONADE         National Development Fund
FVN            National Highway Fund
GAM            Highway maintenance unit (MOPT)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
INTRA          National Transport Institute
INVIAS         National Institute of Roads
MOPT           Ministry of Public Works and Transport (from 1976 onward)
MOT            Ministry of Transport (from 1993 onward)
PROVIAL        Roads Maintenance Program
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SGP            General Superintendency of Ports
SPWs           Secretariats of Public Works (Departmental)
UEAC           Civil Aviation Special Unit
UNCTAD         United Nations Conference on Trade and Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................i
I. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................I
1. Statement of Objectives .........................................1
2. Achievement of Objectives ........................................l1
3. Major Factors Affecting The Project .........................................6
4. Project Sustainability .........................................8
5. Bank Performance ........................................ 10
6. Borrower Performance ......1.................................. 1
7. Assessment of Outcome ......................................... 12
8. Future Operation ........................................                                                                  13
9. Lessons Learned ........................................ 15
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES .......................................                                                              18
Table  1:    Summary of Assessments ....................................... 18
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................                                                 19
Table 3:  Project Timetable .......................................                                                          20
Table 4:  Loan Disbursement ....................................... 20
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................................                                   21
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .......................................                                      22
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project .......................................                                              22
Table 8A: Project Costs .......................................                                                              23
Table 8B: Project Financing .......................................                                                          23
Table 9:   Economic Cost and Benefits .......................................                                                24
Table 10  Status of Covenants .......................................                                                        25
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants .......................................                                                26
Table  11:  Compliance with operational  statements .......................................                                  33
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ........................................                                            33
Table  13: Bank Resources Missions ........................................                                                  34
Annex I ........................................                                                                                  35
Annex 2 ........................................                                                                                  36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                       l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2829-CO.
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second National
Highways Sector Project in Colombia for which Loan 2829-CO of US$180.3 million
equivalent, was approved on October 8, 1987. The original closing date was December
31, 1993. The Loan was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on June 30,
1994, without extension of the original closing date.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Jose Luis Irigoyen (LA3IN), Messrs. Stan Kowalski
and German Silva (Consultants) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, and
reviewed by Mr. Peter Ludwig (Division Chief, LA3IN) and Mr. Robert Crown (Project
Adviser, LA3DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in June 1994. It is based on material in the project files. The borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by contributing views and providing comments on the draft
ICR which have been incorporated into the final document.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2829-CO
COLOMBIA
Introduction
i.   Seven highway projects and one highway sector project had been financed
previously by the Bank in Colombia.
Project Objectives
ii.  The project was designed as a Sector Project. As described in the Loan Agreement,
the main objective of the project was to assist the Borrower in the execution of its 1987-
1993 Highways Program by: (a) financing the execution of technically and economically
feasible subprojects; and (b) providing technical assistance.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.  While the achievement of development objectives was only marginally satisfactory,
with its strong sector policy content, the project in contrast contributed to shaping key
institutional reforms, making Government policy makers focus on the need for a reform
and recognize its potential advantages producing a satisfactory result. The achievements in
MOPT's internal efficiency improvements were mixed and the upgrading of the condition
of the national highway system fell short of expectations (para. 2).
iv.  SAR estimated targets entailed (1) rehabilitation of about 800 km of paved roads
and 3,000 km of gravel roads, (2) paving of about 1,000 km of gravel roads, and (3)
periodic maintenance over about 2,400 km of paved roads. Under the project, about 740
km of paved roads were rehabilitated (or 94 percent of the initial target), and 575 km of
gravel roads were paved (or 57 percent of the initial target). The IRR of a sample of 16
subprojects (out of 83 subprojects) shows that on average the IRR was reduced by half
when compared with appraisal estimates. On average, construction time was 3.2 times that
of the appraisal and actual cost 2.1 times the appraisal estimate. In all cases, shortfalls in
budget allocations were reported as the main causes of the delays and related cost
overruns (paras. 14-16).
v.   Several key factors produced cost increases and delays in the execution of most of
the 83 road subprojects. Rather than conventional cost overruns, these cost increases
involved changes in the physical targets of the original contracts and included betterment
works justifying higher costs than expected for rehabilitation and paving. The four main
categories of factors accounting for cost increases and construction delays: i) contract
administration practices; ii) changes in engineering standards introduced during
construction.; iii) emergencies due to both natural phenomenon as well as security
problems; iv) contractors lack of operational capacity (para. 17).



- ii -
vi. Further influencing factors include i) consultant services for preparation of the
Transport Master Plan and the Computerized Management Information System were
deployed too late (due to budgetary constraints) to enable implementation of their
recommendations within the project timeframe; ii) the SAR price contingency estimates
were lower than actual local cost increases; iii) auditing of MOPT financial statements and
the Loan special account occurred with substantial delays since the project accounts were
below acceptable standard. Supported by the ongoing Loan 3453-CO, consultants are
assisting INVIAS in putting in place proper accounting systems (para 19-21).
Bank Performance
vii. The SAR was a comprehensive document on sector policy reformn, well received by
the Borrower, although quite limited and general with regard to the investment
components. The Bank played a key role in shaping the transport sector policy reforms
and continues supporting their implementation through technical assistance provided
under the follow on Loan 3453-CO (Third National Roads Sector Project) approved in
1992. More effort should have been given to align the project more closely with the
Government's budget cycle. The SAR did not adequately identify the subprojects or their
physical targets. Project supervision utilized 65.3 staff weeks during the implementation
period. Eleven supervision missions visited MOPT and later MOT and INVIAS (paras.
27-32).
Borrower performance
viii. Government fully supported the project's sector policy reform component and
during the period 1987-1994 took actions directed towards opening-up the economy,
promoting exports, easing up of trade and reducing transport costs. These measures
provided an appropriate framework for the major institutional reforms aimed at
decentralizing government and improving efficiency through increased private sector
participation in transport sector operations (para. 33).
ix. Structural difficulties with the government's budgetary system impose severe
constraints for adequate management. There is a significant level of political interference
associated with the presentation of the investment budget to Congress for approval and
excessive dependence on the transfer of funds from Treasury creating a recurring shortage
of counterpart funds (paras. 34-35).
x.   Weakness of MOPT's contract administration and budgeting practices was evident
during project implementation and the institutional strengthening component of the project
was not perceived as a high priority by MOPT's Technical Secretariat. The lack of a
computerized project information system made adequate monitoring practically impossible
(paras 36-37).
Summary of Findings
xi.  Overall, the project's outcome can be considered as marginally satisfactory. The
majority of the sector policy objectives were achieved in a satisfactory manner. The
outcome of MOPT's institutional efficiency component was mixed. The Transport Master
Plan and the Computerized Management Information System were completed, though too



- iii -
late to implement them within the project's timeframe. The personnel training program
was carried out partially. The achievement of the physical targets envisaged in the SAR
was partial, namely about 94 and 57 percent of the targets planned for road rehabilitation
and paving, respectively. By increasing the percentage of Bank financing from 42 to 70
percent, the Bank contributed to speeding up project implementation, but at the expense
of not achieving the physical targets stated in the SAR (paras 38-39).
Future Operations
xii. Government is taking actions that will eventually contribute to ensuring project
sustainability and maximizing project benefits. A possible Bank transport project,
tentatively scheduled for FY97, would assist the Government in (1) exploring the
possibility of transforming INVIAS into a public corporation, as a means to mitigate
political interference, strengthen management capacity, and increase financial autonomy
and accountability, and (2) putting in place a better framework for private sector financing
and management of road infrastructure, as a means to bring more efficiency to the sector
(para 40).
Lessons Learned
xiii. More attention should be given to defining a set of performance indicators and
developing a logical framework under which each project component fits and is clearly
linked with the stated objectives. The project financed a large number of road subprojects
scattered throughout the country, selected more to reflect a regional balance than strategic
decisions directed to have a greater impact on transport system performance (para 48).
xiv. The operational aspects (budgeting procedures, flow of funds and accounting) of a
project should also receive more attention during project preparation and be candidly
discussed with the various governmental agencies involved before starting project
implementation. A computerized management information system is a key component
(para 49).
xv.  Loan covenants constitute a key element of the Bank's assistance in the
development process by guiding project implementation and helping Government focus on
those actions that will produce the long lasting benefits expected from the project. In this
project, loan covenants were designed to assist the Borrower in speeding up the
strengthening of its institutional and operational capacity (para 50).
xvi. Incomplete and poor engineering studies were one of the most critical factors that
delayed and led to cost increases in the execution of the works financed under this project.
In 1993, INVIAS adopted new terms of reference and guidelines for engineering studies;
bidding for construction is now delayed until the engineering studies are made available
(para 5 1).
xvii. Institutional changes. The institutional changes had a toll on the productivity of the
agencies affected by the reform process. The new organization structure was not easily
understood and hindered day to day operations by those having to interact with it (para
52).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
LOAN 2829-CO
I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The project was designed as a Sector Project. It included a policy reform and
institutional improvement Action Plan, which provided the framework for an investment
component financed under the project. As described in the Loan Agreement, the main
objective of the project was to assist the Borrower in the execution of its 1987-1993
highways Program by: (a) financing the execution of technically and economically feasible
subprojects; and (b) providing technical assistance'.
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.    The achievement of development objectives was marginally satisfactory. With its
strong sector policy content, the project contributed to shaping key institutional reforms in
the sector, making Government policy makers focus on the need for reform and its
potential advantages (paras. 3-8). Though some of the reforms are yet under
implementation and will take some additional time to see their results, the project's
achievement in this respect is indeed satisfactory. However, the achievement of MOPT's
internal efficiency improvements (paras. 9-13) and the upgrading of the condition of the
national highway system (paras. 14-16) fell short of expectations, producing mixed results.
3.    Overview of Major Reforms in the Transport Sector. Between 1988-1993, the
Colombian Government embarked on a series of reforms designed to modernize
transportation operations through restructuring the management, planning, coordination
and control functions in the transport sector, and reorganizing the execution of public
works. These efforts were substantiated in support of a policy of opening the economy to
international competition and lowering protection for national industries and services,
l As described in the SAR the main objectives of the projects wer to:
(a)    Formulate Sector policy reform (1) improving equity in recovery from road users, (2)
easing transport regulation and trade facilitation, and (3) improving resource allocation;
(b)    Improve MOPT's internal efficiency through strengthening (1) procedures for
preparation and monitoring of transport expenditure programs, (2) road maintenance
management, (3) civil works contract administration, and (4) personnel training;
(c)    Upgrade the condition of the national highway network reducing overall transport costs
through financing a time-slice of MOPT's 1987-1993 highway program, predominantly
in road rehabilitation, maintenance, paving, and safety.



2
which increased export and import volumes between 1988-1990 by 31 and 12 percent,
respectively. In the ports subsector, COLPUERTOS, the public entity in charge of the
operation of the five public ports was liquidated in 1991 (Ports Law) and replaced by a
three-tier structure: (I) the Superintendencia de Puertos as the regulatory agency for the
subsector, (2) the Sociedades Portuarias as independent port administrators with more than 70
percent in private hands, and (3) the Operadores Portuarios, private sector companies which
undertake port operations. Stevedoring costs are said to have gone down from about S$21 per
ton to around US$9/10, and port tariffs have dropped by more than 40 percent. Flag law
protection, applied in Colombia in the last decade, was also eliminated. The railway sub-sector
was reorganized replacing the Colombian National Railways (FEN) with (1) FERROVIAS, a
public entity responsible for the infrastructure and the awarding of operating rights to private
operators, and (2) private operators, who are charged a toll for the utilization of the tracks.
The latter reform did not materialize in sub-sector improvements because of differences
between the public utility and the private operators on the operational gains realized or to be
realized through the rehabilitation and maintenance programs carried out by FERROVIAS.
4.    In 1992, Government passed Decree 2171 (1) transforming the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport (MOPT) into a Ministry of Transport (MOT), responsible only for
planning and policy making, not its execution, (2) eliminating the National Highway Fund
(FVN) and entrusting to a new autonomous agency --the Instituto Nacional de Vias
(INVIAS)-- management of a well-defined network of import/export corridors and trunk
roads, (3) eliminating the National Institute for Transport (INTRA, partly responsible for road
transport regulation and enforcement), and by end-1995, the Rural Roads National Fund
(FNCV) as well as MOPT's field districts (the latter in support of a policy to contract out all
works, including maintenance).
5.    Subsequently, in 1993, Congress approved the Transport Law which provided the legal
framework for the redistribution of responsibilities over transport infrastructure among central
government, departments and municipalities. The law (1) mandates central government to
transfer to the departments responsibility over a substantial portion of the national road
network (about 14,000 km) and all rural roads currently managed by FNCV (about 20,000
kIn), in total about 32 percent of the road system, as well as the resources needed to maintain
or improve these roads through a new Road Co-financing Fund, (2) establishes the policy that
transport user-charges should guarantee the full recovery of infrastructure maintenance,
operation and development, and gives ample powers for departments and municipalities to
charge tolls, tariffs, betterment levies and surcharge taxes on gasoline prices, for the sole
financing of transport infrastructure, (3) allows the departments to restructure their road
agencies, including the possibility of establishing autonomous private/public entities with
capacity to issue bonds, contract loans, etc., and (4) provides the basic framework for the
franchising of infrastructure facilities to the private sector. The devolution of roads to the
departments requires careful planning (the law establishes a three-year timeframe) because the
departments have varying road management capabilities and resources, and the transfer process
must be undertaken along with the restructuring and definition of road maintenance financing
mechanisms.



3
6.    Reforming Road Sector Policy. Cost-recovery from road users was substantially
improved through increases in gasoline prices and road tolls. Tolls have been raised in
nominal terms on an annual basis, and since 1989, a new category for heavy vehicles with
five or more axles was introduced to improve equity. Still, there is an imbalance between
user charges contributed by light and heavy vehicles and the road damage they produce, in
favor of the latter. Highway expenditures used to be funded through the National
Highway Fund, which mainly consisted of proceeds of the tax on fuel products (61 percent
in 1991), highway tolls (20 percent ) and external loans, until it was abolished in 1991
when the new Colombian Constitution suppressed the earmarking of taxes. Presently,
road user charges exceed current expenditures in the sector but will cover only 90 percent
of the total cost of maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of the national public
road network needed to support an increase in road investments from 1 percent of GDP in
1990-94 to around 2.5 percent for the period 1995-98; conversely, at the subnational
level, revenue would merely cover 15 percent of the projected needs. A study on road
funding strategies and user charges is underway to enhance the structure of road user
charges in order to meet the requirements established under the Transport Law.
7.    Government eased trade and transport regulations. The Trade Code was modified
with regard to transport and insurance, introducing multimodal transport of goods (decree
01/90). As a result of improvements, imports of heavy trucks (mostly trailers) increased
200 percent in 1992, adding to the efficiency of the fleet. Government restructured the
National Customs Agency streamlining export and import procedures in support of the opening
up of the economy, and passed new legislation which eliminates port and in-route
inspections, thus facilitating the use of containers. Also, legislation passed in 1990
restructured NITRA into a normative organization in transport and transit. Furthermore,
Decree 2171 of 1992 eliminated INTRA, passing its responsibilities on to the restructured
Ministry of Transport.
8.    To improve allocation of public investments, MOPT hired consultants to develop
the Transport Master Plan. Because of delays in the recruitment of consultants and
completion of the preparatory works and models, the plan was developed too late to
implement it within the project's time-frame. The Master Plan Model and database system
is appropriate for strategic planning purposes and supports the prioritization of investment
in a long term perspective. It has also served to initiate inter-subsectoral coordination and
the development of a comprehensive transport database. However, additional effort is
required to make the system suitable for short term investment decision analysis, policy
analysis, and basic display of information for use in the monitoring, coordination and
regulation of the transport sector, which are also part of the responsibilities entrusted to
the restructured Ministry of Transport. Due to transformation of MOPT into MOT most
of the people familiarized with the operation of the transport models have left MOT. On-
going efforts to train personnel in the implementation and routine operation of the
computerized transport models should continue. Furthermore, additional efforts should
also be made to achieve the sustained inter-subsectoral coordination entrusted to MOT.



4
9.    Improving MOPT's Internal Efriciency. MOPT's internal efficiency improved
slightly during the project execution. The main actions envisaged in this regard covered
improvements in MOPT's (1) sector managerial and budgetary processes, (2) road
maintenance management, (3) civil works contract administration, and (4) personnel
training.
10.   Development of the computerized management information system for monitoring
the subproject portfolio, pluriannual rolling expenditure and funding programs took much
longer than anticipated. The consultants were deployed late and it was not until April
1994 that most of the system was ready for implementation. The follow-on Loan 3453-
CO is financing implementation of the system and its adjustment to the new institutional
setting. Very little progress was made with regard to improving accounting and internal
control systems (see para. 21).
11.   A highway maintenance unit (GAM) was established within MOPT to prepare
annual maintenance plans and monitor their implementation. The unit's staff was trained
to keep up with the road inventory and formulate performance maintenance programs
involving microenterprises to carry out labor-based activities and force account and
contractors to carry out equipment-based activities and drainage improvements. The unit
has been producing these annual programs since 1992, and regularly monitors compliance
with them on a quarterly basis. In addition, the unit was charged with operating the
HDM-III model to conduct economic evaluation and prioritization of road investments for
MOPT's Planning Office. The unit now is part of the core team under the Directorate of
Maintenance created within INVIAS. On the other hand, improvement of quality control
for road maintenance operation was not fully achieved. These efforts are being pursued
under technical assistance funded through Loan 3453-CO. Contracting out of
maintenance activities was substantially increased. Moreover, as part of the reform
launched in December 1992, about 10,000 workers are being retrenched in the three-year
period allowed by legislation; MOPT's equipment fleet is being sold mainly to new small-
enterprises formed by former workers with a view to contracting out their services to
undertake road maintenance. Though some fixed and portable scales were purchased to
control truck overloading, only one station has been in operation in a consistent manner.
An adequate strategy to address road traffic overloading is still lacking.
12.   Contract administration remained weak. MOPT revised the cost adjustment
formulae used to compensate for price escalation due to inflation. Though the new system
is adequately tailored to reflect local costs, contract escalation continued to be a major
issue due to the frequent need to amend contracts in order to include additional work
quantities. The intended streamlining of bidding and contract administration practices was
not achieved. Coordination between MOPT's Technical Secretariat and Legal Office also
remained weak. MOPT hired consultants to update design standards and technical
specifications, but the resulting manuals were rejected by MOPT and local professional
agencies. A task force is now revising them in the context of the on-going Loan 3453-
CO. The study on sources of road construction materials was not carried out, but MOPT



5
contracted the Universidad Nacional to prepare an inventory of landslides along the
highway network.
13.   Training of MOPT's staff was carried out partially, mostly through short trips
abroad and training courses in Colombia organized by local universities and MOPT.
However, this was an area that received very little attention before 1990. In 1991 MOPT
decided not to remodel the training center in Bogota because its location was not
appropriate for training activities, and decided instead to strengthen coordination with
external sources. Several education and training programs are now being delivered
through agreements with local universities (most notably a comprehensive program run by
the University of Cauca which also includes research in the area of pavement materials
behavior). Only US$0.5 million was spent on training out of the US$2 million estimated
in the SAR. Under INVIAS, the new road organization, much more attention has been
assigned to training.
14.   Upgrading the Condition of the National Highway Network. MOPT's 1987-
1993 road investment and maintenance program was overly ambitious and its formulation
was not based on reliable cost data. Though its implementation no doubt contributed to
improving the condition of the road network, it did not meet the planned targets. The
Bank loan was to finance only about 11 percent of this program. SAR estimated targets
entailed (1) rehabilitation of about 800 km of paved roads and 3,000 km of gravel roads,
(2) paving of about 1,000 km of gravel roads, and (3) periodic maintenance over about
2,400 km of paved roads.
15.   The under-estimation of costs due to the poor quality of the engineering surveys
available to determine actual work quantities was a major constraint for budget planning.
This was compounded by the fact that the scarce budgeted funds were spread too thin to
finance a great number of on-going road sub-projects as well as start new subprojects
without securing the funds needed to complete them on time. To help MOPT cope with
the resulting shortages in counterpart funding and avoid further delays, the percentage for
disbursement against road works under the loan was increased from 42 percent to 70
percent. As a result, about 740 km of paved roads were rehabilitated (or 94 percent of the
initial target), and 575 km of gravel roads were paved (or 57 percent of the initial target).
Rehabilitation of gravel roads and periodic maintenance were partially undertaken directly
by MOPT with its own funds.
16.   INVIAS prepared for this ICR, an ex-post evaluation of the Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) of a sample of 16 subprojects (out of 83 subprojects) carried out under the
loan to assess the consequences of the cost increases and delays experienced in completing
road rehabilitation works. The analysis considered three scenarios: (1) without the
project, (2) with the project executed as planned in SAR (execution time and cost) and (3)
with project, considering actual cost and construction time (on average, construction time
was 3.2 times that of the appraisal and actual cost 2.1 times the appraisal estimate). The
operational costs of vehicles were estimated using the HDM-III model and taking into
account the actual geometric features of the road (including vertical profiles and



6
horizontal alignment), traffic information for each road section, and estimated initial and
final pavement roughness. Keeping in mind the limitations of these data, the evaluation
shows that on average the LRR was reduced by half when compared with appraisal
estimates. In all cases, shortfalls in budget allocations were reported as the main causes of
the delays and related cost overruns (para. 17).
3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.   A total of 83 road subprojects, encompassing about 3,500 km of roads, were
partially funded under Loan 2829-CO. Several factors converged to produce cost
increases and delays in the execution of most of them. Rather than conventional cost
overruns, these cost increases involved changes in the physical targets of the original
contracts, including among others, changes in subproject's length, in road alignment, and
in the number and type of bridge structures to be built. The average per km cost used in
the SAR for road rehabilitation and paving were unrealistic, because most of the road
subprojects entailed betterment works (such as roadway widening, improvements to the
alignrment of the roads, and bridge replacements) which justify higher costs than those
expected for rehabilitation and paving alone. A participatory diagnosis involving MOPT
officials as well as consultants in charge of work supervision was conducted in 1992 to
identify the main factors accounting for cost increases and construction delays as well as
the remedial actions to be undertaken to avoid their recurrence. These factors are
grouped into four categories:
(a)   Contract administration practices. MOPT's contract administration
practices and especially its traditional budgetary programming has been by
far one of the most significant causes of delay in work progress, with high
impact on more than 76 percent of the subprojects. The lack of
consistency between budgetary programming and civil works execution
resulted in a chronic shortage of funds to finance the works, in delays in
processing payments to contractors, and finally, in adjusting work progress
to budget allocations substantially extending construction periods and
increasing supervision costs accordingly. In addition, MOPT's past
tendency to over-contract works resulted in many cases in awarding
contracts that from their very beginning were not intended to cover all the
components needed to complete the subproject, or the work quantities
were limited to a specific portion or section covered under the contract.
Poor engineering designs, and partial and outdated studies contributed
largely to this problem. In general, the quality of the engineering studies
available prior to construction was very poor --in some cases only
preliminary designs were available. As a result, cost estimates were
underestimated and the budget allocations underfunded creating a vicious
cyclical problem.
(b)   Changes during construction. Changes in engineering standards introduced
during construction account for work increases in 93 percent of the
subproject analyzed. Overlay and rehabilitation subprojects are very



7
sensitive to delays in work execution, as the further deterioration of the
pavement condition may lead to significant work and cost increases.
Changes of borrow pits and quarries accounted for significant cost
increases in 56 percent of the subprojects. Starting in 1993, more stringent
environmental regulations which affect the selection and cultivation of
quarries and the disposition of waste materials as well, have also increased
road construction costs. Implementation delays caused by delays in the
acquisition of land were reported in 56 percent of the subprojects, most
notably in those where changes in the road alignment were introduced
during construction.
(c)   Emergencies. Colombia's mountainous topography makes road
construction difficult. Slope slides and erosions are particularly rampant.
Additional costs for the removal of landslides were needed in 56 percent of
the subprojects, generally with medium to large effect on work progress
and cost. In addition,force majeure situations were reported in 17 cases,
out of 83, including both temporal suspension of works due to security
reasons in the area and serious damage to the contractor's equipment or
the work already carried out as a consequence of such problems.
(d)   Contractors capacity. In about 10 subprojects out of 83, the contractor's
capacity was inadequate for the job size, affecting adversely work progress.
Contractor limitations referred to both lack of operational capacity --mainly
shortages in equipment fleet-- and financial constraints.
18.   In spite of the fact that the project started financing 43 road subprojects carried
over from the previous Loan 2171-CO, project execution was behind schedule and the
pace of disbursements was slower than anticipated. The pace of project disbursements
rapidly increased after the Bank agreed to amend the percentage of financing for road
works set forth in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement, increasing it to 70 percent.
Subsequently, the Bank approved 100 percent financing for payments in respect of
advances to contractors who were awarded construction contracts for new roads. This
amendment was inopportune as it promoted contracting of new works instead of focusing
on the completion of the ongoing road work's. Completion of about 38 road supbrojects
is still underway under the follow on Loan 3453-CO.
19.   The consultant services for preparation of the Transport Master Plan and the
Computerized Management Information System were deployed too late to enable
implementation of their recommendations within the project timeframe. MOPT's Planning
Office was the recipient of these assignments. Implementation of both studies faced strong
budgetary constraints (in spite of the fact that the Planning Office was the unit in charge of
preparing MOPT's budget). It was not until early 1995 that implementation of the
Computerized Management Information System gained support from INVIAS top
management.



8
20.   The price contingencies estimated in SAR for the period 1988-1994 were about
16.75 percent in constant US dollars of 1987. The rehabilitation and paving contracts
were paid in local currency. During the period of high disbursements, the SAR price
contingency estimates were lower than actual local cost increases. Consequently,
availability of loan funds for road rehabilitation and paving were about 16.2 percent less
than required.
21.   Auditing of MOPT financial statements and the Loan special account was done by
Contraloria General de la Republica, usually with substantial delays. No opinion was
given by auditors for the years 1989 to 1991; an adverse opinion was given for 1992; and
again, no opinion was given for 1993 project accounts, attesting to the fact that the
project accounts were below acceptable standard and in need of improvement. Supported
by the ongoing Loan 3453-CO, consultants are assisting INVIAS in putting in place
proper accounting systems.
4. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The institutional reforms initiated in the transport sector, no doubt, will bring more
efficiency to the sector. However, at this stage project sustainability remains uncertain
because the reform agenda is not yet settled and the new institutions are still making
adjustments to their organizations to better discharge their functions. This is evident in
the railway sub-sector where FERROVIAS is being restructured to allow for private
concessionaires to undertake rehabilitation, maintenance as well as operation of railway
infrastructure, and in the road subsector, where INVIAS has yet to solve some
organizational bottlenecks and overcome part of the recurrent problems of the past,
namely the deficiencies in budgeting, work programming and contract administration
practices.
23.   In the past, MOPT was regarded as a technical organization intimately involved
with engineering; it was staffed and managed by technical personnel. With this function
passed on to INVIAS, the restructured Ministry of Transport has to develop new staff
skills and more sophisticated planning tools to discharge its role in policy making,
monitoring performance of, and ensuring coordination among transport modes. The
Transport Master Plan is now perceived as a key tool for MOT to discharge the above
functions in an appropriate manner, and efforts to train the staff in MOT's Planning Office
were resumed after the retrenchment and transfer of staff left this unit substantially eroded
in its capacity to implement the Plan. At present, there appears to be a risk that the
technical character of MOT may be understated and people lacking suitable experience be
appointed to key positions, leading to eventual politicization of its ranks, which in turn
may affect sustainability of the reform. In fact, MOT has to position itself between the
various parastatals under its jurisdiction (INVIAS, FERROVIAS, the Superintendency of
Ports) and the National Planning Department (DNP). These risks might be reduced by
channeling technical assistance to both MOT and INVIAS, and ensuring that both
institutions are successful in retaining well qualified personnel to coordinate consolidation
of the on-going reforms. Loan 3453-CO carries an institutional strengthening component
to support the final establishment of INVIAS.



9
24.   The sustainability of the investment component of the project will depend on
Government success in (1) consolidating INVIAS into an efficient and dependable
organization, (2) implementing a sound strategy for programming and delivering road
maintenance services entirely by contract (contractors and microenterprises), and (3)
carrying out the devolution of roads to the departments in a manner consistent with the
building up of institutional capacity within the recipient departments. Establishing an
efficient road organization to manage the trunk road network has demanded more time
and effort than that envisaged under Decree 2171 of 1992. Nevertheless, as stated in a
recent document issued by the Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social on the
Road Infrastructure Plan for 1995-1998, Government is committed to furthering the
reforms initiated in 1992 in order to put in place more adequate institutional and financial
arrangements for sector management (see para. 42).
25.   Compliance with the targets agreed under the Road Maintenance Plan has slightly
deteriorated in 1994, as a result of reductions in the operational capacity of field districts,
whose force account capacity is slated for liquidation by end- 1995. The emergencies
caused during the last rainy season of 1994 demonstrated the weakness of the new
organization as well as the vulnerability of the highway network. However, INVIAS, with
the help of international consultants recruited under the technical assistance in road
maintenance management being funded through Loan 3453-CO, is now developing new
contract administration models for routine and periodic maintenance, and for managing
road emergencies. Delivery of maintenance services will be accomplished basically
through a combination of micro-enterprises for mostly labor-based routine maintenance,
private contractors retained under annual maintenance contracts, and private
concessionaires who will be selected to finance and undertake the rehabilitation,
maintenance and operation of substantial portions of the road network (about 3, 100 km or
25 percent of the trunk road system) under Build-Operate-Transfer schemes (see
para. 45). On the other hand there is the potential problem of increased loads transmitted
to the road pavement structure by the heavier trucks imported in recent years. These
trucks generally operate overloaded causing damage to pavement structures and most
notably to old bridges. Passing to private concessionaires the responsibility for controlling
traffic loads will eventually reduce overloading, and enable INVIAS concentrate its
enforcement efforts over the non-concessioned portion of the network.
26.   The devolution of roads to the departments is progressing, though slower than
anticipated. The main issue is that the Transport Law expanded the responsibilities of the
departments and established a Road Cofinancing Fund to aid the departments meet the
cost of such added responsibilities, but it did not secure the levels of funding that will be
devoted for this purpose under the Fund. These difficulties are being sorted out through
negotiations with each department taking into account the nature and condition of the
roads being transferred. A risk associated to this process is that the weakness of the
departments may in practice impede INVIAS in concentrating its efforts exclusively on the
national trunk road system --a key factor for the success of the new organization.



10
5. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   The project identification, preparation and appraisal were carried out by the Bank
based on previous experiences and knowledge of MOPT (seven highway projects and one
highway sector project had been financed previously by the Bank). The SAR was a
comprehensive document on sector policy reform, well received by the Borrower,
however quite limited and general with regard to the investment components.
28.   The strong policy reform content of the project, its most important objective
during project preparation, was really innovative and helped Government focus on
furthering the reforms, which became quite an endeavor for a country where road
maintenance relied extensively on force account, and airports, sea ports, and railways had
been owned and operated for long time by government. As mentioned in "Achievement of
Objectives", various measures were agreed and undertaken to reform the existing
transport sector policies. By being there during project implementation, the Bank played a
key role in shaping these initiatives, and continues supporting their implementation
through technical assistance provided under the follow on Loan 3453-CO (Third National
Roads Sector Project) approved in 1992.
29.   The previous knowledge and experience with MOPT's budgeting system was not
adequately taken into account. Given that the rigidity of MOPT's institutional structure
and budgeting system was identified as a potential risk for a successful completion of
Bank-financed projects, a technical assistance component was included in the project to
assist MOPT in strengthening its work monitoring and budget programming practices
through development of a computerized management system. This was a long-term goal.
In view of the large size of the investment program and the rigidities of the budget, more
effort should have been given to align the project with the Government's budget cycle and
include short-term measures to improve coordination between work programming and
budgeting before the computerized systems could be developed and made operational.
30.   The SAR did not adequately identify the subprojects or their physical targets
whose completion was to be financed under Loan 2829-CO. Instead, the loan was
intended to finance a share of MOPT's investment plan. Insufficient funds were allocated
to too many road sub-projects. The lack of appropriate engineering designs and the
subsequent need to include additional works compounded the budgetary constraints.
Average per km cost estimates used in the SAR for road rehabilitation and paving were
unrealistic for the type of works planned, which included road alignment improvements,
drainage structures, bridge replacements, and slope stabilization. Also, the price
contingency estimated in SAR for the period 1988-1994 was lower than local cost
increases. As a result some 38 sub-projects were not completed during the
implementation of Loan 2829-CO, and their completion is being financed under Loan
3453-CO.
31.   Financial aspects relating to the implementation of the road subprojects were not
clear. New and on-going road subprojects were added on to the initial implementation



11
program without a careful assessment of the financial implications and additional funds
required through completion. It should be noted, however, that by undertaking the
financing of works already started by MOPT/FVN with its own funds, the project avoided
building more pressure on an agency whose funding and contracting capabilities were over
stretched as a result of the great number of works under execution. This flexibility
facilitated project implementation and loan disbursements, but at the expense of financing
subprojects that were lacking adequate engineering designs and difficult supervision
activities, especially the comparison of physical targets proposed and accomplished.
32.   Project supervision utilized 65.3 staff weeks during the implementation period.
Eleven supervision missions visited MOPT and later MOT and INVIAS. Back-to-office
reports provide for an easy follow-up of project implementation and compliance with legal
covenants and action plans.
6. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   Government fully supported the project's sector policy reform component. During
the 1987-1994 period, Government took actions directed towards the opening-up of the
economy, the promotion of exports, the easing up of trade and reduction of transport
costs. These measures provided an appropriate framework for the major institutional
reforms aimed at decentralizing government and improving its efficiency through increased
private sector participation in the running of transport sector operations. The policies
adopted were in line with the agreed plan of action.
34.   Though the policies adopted for road sector management are well suited and
consistent with Bank best practices, introducing these reforms has not been as smooth as
desired due to the hastiness that characterized their implementation. Moreover, the
experience gained so far through implementation of the follow-on project shows that even
with close supervision from Government --the project includes an innovative Performance
Contract that spells out the undertakings of the various government agencies involved in
the project and by which Government supervises MOT and INVIAS outputs-- there
remain structural difficulties with the government's budgetary system that impose severe
constraints for adequate management.
35.   The weakness of MOPT's contract administration and budgeting practices was
evident during project implementation. Cost increases and delays resulted in most cases
from the convergence of several factors, namely: i) lack or poor quality of engineering
studies prior to initiating the bidding process; ii) frequent changes in design standards and
inclusion of additional works without assessing the financial consequences of these
changes at both subproject and investment program levels; iii) inadequate contract
administration practices which led to spreading thin MOPT's over streched financial and
operational capacity over too many subprojects at the same time, extending contracts far
beyond their initial duration and value to avoid rebidding, and poor supervision practices;
iv) insufficient capacity on the part of some contractors, who lacked the financial and
technical capacity to undertake the works; v) lack of consistency between budgetary
programming and work execution, resulting in a chronic shortage of funds to finance the



12
works, in delays in processing payments to contractors, and in turn, in adjusting work
progress to budget allocations, substantially delaying work completion and increasing
supervision costs accordingly. While certainly the lack of appropriate budgeting and work
programming tools has contributed to this problem, its roots can be tracked on to the way
the investment budget is presented to Congress for approval, and the significant level of
political interference associated with this process; and vi) excessive dependence on the
transfer of funds from Treasury. This creates a recurrent shortage of counterpart funds
during the first quarter of the year (when Government revenues are low) which coincides
with the dry season period, the most appropriate time for road construction.
36.   The institutional strengthening component of the project was not perceived as a
high priority by MOPT's Technical Secretariat, which was overwhelmed with road
construction and maintenance activities. MOPT's External Credit Office, responsible for
managing implementation of externally funded projects lacked the resources and
empowerment needed to decide on priorities and enforce compliance with legal covenants.
37.   The lack of a computerized project information system made practically impossible
adequate monitoring of work progress and financial needs through project completion.
The difficulty of putting into operation such a system strongly suggests lack of
professional interest on the part of those responsible for collecting the data and using the
system (including contractors and supervisors). Furthermore, this may likely reflect a
desire to keep the status quo and to control the flow of information at certain levels of the
organization.
7. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   Overall, the project's outcome can be considered as marginally satisfactory. The
majority of the sector policy objectives were achieved in a satisfactory manner. However,
the outcome of MOPT's institutional efficiency component was mixed, with positive
improvements in the areas of planning, programming and monitoring of road maintenance,
but with modest progress in the areas of budgeting, investment programming and contract
administration. The two major studies, the Transport Master Plan and the Computerized
Management Information System were completed, though too late to implement them
within the project's timeframe. The personnel training program was carried out partially.
39.   The achievement of the physical targets envisaged in the SAR was partial, namely
about 94 and 57 percent of the targets planned for road rehabilitation and paving,
respectively. Although short from the targets planned, the works were carried out much
faster than planned and most of the loan was disbursed by end-1990, two years before the
closing date. Obviously, by increasing the percentage of Bank financing from 42 to 70
percent, the Bank contributed to speeding up project implementation, but at the expense
of not achieving the physical targets stated in the SAR.



13
8. FUTURE OPERATION
40.   Government is taking actions in five areas that will eventually contribute to
ensuring project sustainability and maximizing project benefits: i) establishing MOT as a
policy making and planning agency for the transport sector; ii) consolidating INVIAS as a
dependable road organization; iii) strengthening road sector funding, by increasing
investment levels and enhancing the structure of road user charges; iv) increasing the
efficiency and effectiveness of road operations, bringing the private sector to finance,
build, maintain and operate substantial portions of the trunk road network, and contracting
out to contractors and microenterprises periodic and routine maintenance of the non-
concessioned portion of the road network; and v) building up road management capacity
in the departments to support the mandated devolution of roads and Government
decentralization efforts. A possible Bank transport project, tentatively scheduled for
FY97, would assist the Government in (1) exploring the possibility of transforming
INVIAS into a public corporation, as a means to mitigate political interference, strengthen
management capacity, and increase financial autonomy and accountability, and (2) putting
in place a better framework for private sector financing and management of road
infrastructure, as a means to bring more efficiency to the sector and overcome some of the
recurrent problems of the past.
41.   The developing of planning skills within MOT is a key priority. The models
developed for the Transport Master Plan are an essential tool for the restructured MOT,
since long-term investment planning and policy making now are its main functions. A
Technical Committee --composed of key officials from DNP, the former MOPT, and its
parastatals-- supervised the execution of the studies. However, the high turnover of key
staff in MOT's Planning Office after August 1994, may jeopardize the on-going efforts to
fully implement the recommendations and models developed by the consultants. Strong
leadership within MOT's Planning Office and a core team staffed with technicians fully
knowledgeable in the operation of the rather sophisticated models is necessary. An
interesting approach to ensure that the models are adequately used and the data
periodically updated, is to retain consultants to operate the models and evaluate the
investment scenarios defined by MOT under long-term contracts (say 3-5 years). The
experience gained so far with the operation of MOT's Buque Explorador and the
Laboratory of Hydraulic Testing, which are run by consultant firms since 1974, has
proven very successful.
42.   The existing institutional bottlenecks and deficiencies in road sector management
were clearly stated in a recent document issued by CONPES in February 1995. The
document outlines a set of remedial actions to be undertaken by INVIAS. Some of them
are shown below.



14
Area                               Main Actions
Financial      enhance the structure of road user charges;
ensure sustainability of road maintenance;
start charging betterment levies;
Operational    put in place a system to manage road emergencies;
put in place pavement and bridge monitoring systems;
enforce compliance with legal load limits;
Administration  review contract administration procedures within INVIAS to ensure a
steady flow of funds to pay contractors;
review the budgeting procedures with DNP and the Ministry of Finance;
made operational a computerized management information system;
Institutional    strengthen INVIAS technical capacity; and
speed up the process for devolution of roads to departments;
43.   Also, INVIAS' management has recently adopted some key policies that if carried
through the organization, will help correct most of the deficiencies in contract
administration. This includes the decisions to: i) shift from a project-based budget
structure to a more flexible program-based structure, minimizing possible interference
during the approval process; ii) phase out all old on-going contracts by not granting
further extensions; iii) improve the quality of engineering designs using revised terms of
reference and design standards; iv) redefine responsibilities in work supervision, increasing
technical and financial accountability of the consultants retained by INVIAS for this
purpose; v) put into effect the computerized management information system developed
under Loan 2829-CO.
44.   Government plans to substantially increase investments in the road sector from
about 1 percent of GDP during 1991-94 to 2.5 percent for 1995-98 in order to clear the
existing road infrastructure backlog and accommodate the transport system to present
needs. This entails investing about US$7.2 billion between 1995-98, out of which US$6
billion are allocated to the national road network managed by INVIAS, while the
remaining US$1.2 billion would be apportioned to support the devolution of roads to
departments, mostly through the Road Cofinancing Fund. Rather than launching large
new projects, the plan gives priority to rehabilitation and maintenance of the trunk road
system. Government is revising the current structure of user charges through a study
funded under a Bank project (Loan 3157-CO, Second Rural Roads Sector Project).
Presently, at the national level, revenues from user charges exceed the current
expenditures but will not support the planned increase in funding. Conversely, at the
subnational level (departmental and rural roads) revenue would merely cover 15 percent of
the projected needs.
45.   INVIAS is seeking private sector participation to bring additional sources of
funding to the road sector (about 35 percent of the funding needed according to the plan).
It has identified an ambitious concession program, which comprises investments in about



15
3,200 km of roads worth an initial cost of US$2.8 billion. Seven concession contracts
have been awarded so far. The selected private concessionaires will finance the necessary
investments, operation and maintenance of the improved facilities throughout the
concession period; in compensation, the concessionaires will be allowed to charge tolls to
the road users benefiting from the facility. The program covers new accesses to main
cities, rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads, and construction of alternative
routes to replace existing roads which have very poor standards. The latter may not be
financially viable at reasonable toll rates without some participation of public funding and,
possibly, may need some form of credit enhancement to improve prevailing market
conditions for private financing. Government requested the Bank to explore the possibility
of a Bank guarantee for one of the projects. Preparation of this pilot project is underway.
46.   To support the transfer of roads to departments, Government is finalizing the
cofinancing matrices and operational procedures for the Road Cofinancing Fund, which
will channel grant funds to the departments. The cofinancing arrangements give priority
to road rehabilitation and maintenance, as opposed to new construction, by allocating
more funds to these programs and requiring lower contributions on the part of the
departments. Coordination of the investment plans will be done at the departmental level
through specialized units created in 1994. Government and IDB are preparing a project to
support this process.
9. LESSONS LEARNED
47.   Some lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project that can be
applied to the design of future projects in Colombia, and perhaps in other countries as
well. Other lessons refer to the issues that came up during implementation of the major
institutional reform program launched between 1990-1993.
48.   In project design, more attention should be given to defining a set of performance
indicators to assess the achievement of the project objectives and a logical framework
under which each project component fits and is clearly linked with the stated objectives.
Furthermore, there should be consistency between the investments chosen for funding
under the project and the project development objectives, concentrating the use of funds in
those investments that are essential for achieving the development objectives of the
project. As a sector project, Loan 2829-CO financed a small slice of MOPT's investment
program ( 11 percent); in practice this meant partially funding a large number of road
subprojects scattered throughout the country, selected more to reflect a regional balance
than strategic decisions directed to have a greater impact on transport system
performance. For future projects, it is recommended that the number of subprojects be
limited to those considered more important in line with the adopted sector policy and/or
the development objectives of the project.
49.   The rigidity of MOPT's budgeting system was highlighted as a potential risk for
project implementation but no safeguards were introduced in project design. The
operational aspects of a project (budgeting procedures, flow of funds, accounting) should
also receive more attention during project preparation and be candidly discussed with the



16
various governmental agencies involved before starting project implementation. Indeed,
establishing a computerized management information system was a key step to improving
coordination between work programming and budgeting, but yet additional measures were
needed to overcome some of the "structural" difficulties associated with the budgeting
system. Discussions held during the last two years are clearly pointing to two mechanisms
that need to be built into INVIAS to address this issue, namely to (1) mitigate (political)
interference from outside the agency during the processes of formulating and getting
approval of the annual budgets, and (2) secure a steady flow of funds to support the
investment program, increasing financial autonomy of the road agency as to accommodate
any unexpected shortage of funds during the budget cycle.
50.   Loan covenants constitute a key element of the Bank's assistance in the
development process by guiding project implementation and helping Government focus on
those actions that will produce the long lasting benefits expected from the project. In this
project, loan covenants were designed to assist the Borrower in speeding up the
strengthening of its institutional and operational capacity. Likely, the number of covenants
agreed in the loan agreement, 44 actions are listed in Table 10, was more than needed. A
review of the status of these covenants shows that the Borrower was in compliance in 14
instances (or 32 percent), deferred compliance in 10 instances (or 23 percent), achieved
only partial compliance in 11 instances (or 25 percent), and was in non-compliance with in
9 instances (or 20 percent). Borrower's commitment to and internalization of the priority
of mutually agreed actions are essential.
51.   Incomplete and poor engineering studies were, no doubt, one of the most critical
factors that delayed and led to cost increases in the execution of the works financed under
this project as well as the previous two Bank projects. In 1993, INVIAS adopted new
terms of reference and guidelines for engineering studies; more importantly, bidding for
construction is delayed until the engineering studies are made available. The new
engineering studies are more expensive than those undertaken in the past; in general, the
studies have been financed through FONADE because MOPT did not include adequate
provisions for studies in its budget. It is clear now that INVIAS has to manage the studies
and have enough funds for this purpose in its own budget. A key priority in this regard is
the strengthening of INVIAS' technical capacity to review the quality of the studies,
especially to ensure consistency between the recommendations of the environmental
assessment studies (which are now regularly done) and the proposed engineering designs
and cost estimates. In addition, it takes more time for the consultants to complete the
studies, and the experience so far has shown that construction costs estimated on the basis
of these studies are significantly higher than those initially envisaged and used in the
formulation of the budget. Though much can be gained through better scheduling of the
implementation of the selected subprojects, again more flexibility is needed in the budget
structure as to permit the necessary adjustments once the more elaborated cost figures are
available. These efforts, however, should be complemented with similar changes in work
supervision practices, since supervisors became used to introducing changes during
construction without taking into account the financial implications. To what extent these



17
lessons have been assimilated will be tested through implementation of the road
concession contracts recently awarded to private operators.
52.   Finally, it should be noted that the introduction of all the institutional changes had
a toll on the productivity of the agencies affected by the reform process. The most
difficult part was probably how to communicate the changes to the staff and make them
come on board. In spite of the provisions adopted, the retrenchment of personnel also
affected the institutional memory of the agency. Especially during the continuous changes
that characterized the transition stages, it was not rare to see some unintentional
overlapping of responsibilities among the units, that created confusion among staff who
did not know to whom report to or under which procedures should their units operate.
This confusion also affected consultants and contractors who suddenly were confronted
with the need to deal with many new units without understanding the nature of the
changes. An new organization structure must be easily understood from the inside, by the
staff involved in day to day operations, and from the outside, by those beneficiaries
(contractors, consultants, road users as well) that have to interact with it,



18
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Objectives    Substancial          Partial           Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies                   /
Financial objectives
Institucional development                                                 /
Physical objectives                                   /
Poverty reduction                                                                           /
Gender concerns                                                                            /
Other social objectives                                                                     /
Environmental objectives                                                                    /
Public Sector management                                                                    /
Private sector development
Other (specify                                                                             /
B.  Project Sustainability                 Likely                       Unlikely            Uncertain
F/
Highly
C.  Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                                                                             /
Preparation assistance                                                                     V/
Appraisal                                                         /
Supervision                                                       /
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory             Deficient    |
Preparation                                                       /
Implementation                                                                             /
Covenant compliance                                              /
Operation (if applicable)                                                        _         /
Highly
E.   Assessment of Outcome   Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
/~~~~~~~~~~~J



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits'
Loan                           Purpose                      Year of        Status
I                                              approval
Preceding operations
1. Seventh Highway    Rehabilitation of 978 km. priority
Project 1471-CO    roads, and improving road maintenance        June 1977    Completed
and transport management
2. (First) Highway    Upgrade the transport system, adjust        April - 1982   Completed
Sector Project     sector policies, strengthen MOPT's                        Dec-1988
2121 -CO           highway management capacity.
3. 2nd Integrated     Provided financing for construction of       June - 1982   Completed
Rural Develop.     about 700 km of rural roads and                           Jun-90
Project           improvement of 400 km. FNCV carried
2174-CO           out the rural roads component for the
Integrated Rural Development Fund
(DRI)
4. (First) Rural      Support FNCVs 1981-84 Program for           March - 1981  Completed
Roads Project      rural roads construction and                               Jun-86
1966-CO            rehabilitate and improve FNCVs
managerial performance
5. Rural Transport    Support FNCV's 1982-92 Investment            July - 1986   Completed
Sector Project     and Maintenance Program and improve                        Dec - 1986
2668-CO            FNCVs institutional efficiency
Following operations
1. Second Rural      Support FNCVs 1990-1993 program,             Nov. - 1989   In
Roads Sector       define road management functions,                         Progress
Project           implement key policies in the rural
3157 - CO         roads sector (decentralization to local
governments).
2. Third National     Reduce cost of transport, improve           March - 1982  In
Roads Sector       project preparation capacity within                       Progress
Project           MOPT, and implement a rolling five year
3453-CO            investment plan.
'Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related
objectives. A limit of 10 years is observed when listing proceeding operations.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable 2
Date          Date actuaV
Steps in project cycle                 planned       latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                      June 6, 1986
Preparation                                          Jul-86    July 13, 1986
Appraisal                                            Feb-86    May 13, 1987
Negotiations                                         Apr-87    April 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                    n/a
oard presentation                                  May-87    June 9, 1987
Signing                                                        October 8, 1987
ifectiveness                                                  December 21, 1987
Fist Tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                             December 31, 1993
Loan closing                                                    December 31, 1993
2 As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Table 4: Loan Disbursement
FY           88    89    90    91      92      93     94
Appraisal Estimate   31.0  66.6 102.8  133.3  159.4  179.1  180.3
Actual               11.4  29.7 116.1  156.8  174.5  177.3  180.3
Actual as %          36.8  44.6  112.9  117.6  110.3   99.0  100.0
of Estimates
Date of final
disbursement       June, 1994



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation
indicators in SAR                   Estimated           Actual
President's Report                  (For 1993)
Financial Targets
Increase of Road Tolls                           in line with heavy  Accomplishment
construction costs
Force Account Maintenance Ratio                     Below 50%
Investment Targets
Km of Bridges                                                    0                 7
Km of Paving Of Gravel Roads                                  1000               575
Km of Paved Road Rehabilitation                                800               739
Km of Gravel Road Rehabilitation                              3000              4000
Km of Periodic Maintenance                                    2400             19330
Km of Contracted Routine Maintenance2                     10500 (1)             1590
Km of Horizontal Marking                                    100 (1)              270
Kmof Vertical Signalization                                600 (1)              N.A
Km of Safety Barriers                                       20 (1)              N.A.
Organizational Targets
Contracted Maintenance Ratio (%)                                29             30-35
Training Courses (No.)                                         506              N.A.
Trainees (No.)                                                6300              N.A.
(1) - Yearly average (1988 -1993)
(2) - Target to 1993
(3) - During loan execution (1987 - 1993)



22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose as defined          status   Impact of study
at appraisal/redefined                                l
1. Road transport    Review of selected regulatory and  Executed Contributed to
regulation       legal aspects affecting road transport     furthering the
market                                     reforms in the
transport sector.
2. Investment       Review National Transport Plan    Executed Developed too late
planning                                                    to be implemented
after the
restructuring of
MOPT, perceived
as a key tool.
3. Budget programing Development and implementation of   Executed Developed too late
and execution    computerized management information         to be implemented
systems
4. Highway          Technical Assistance for supervision   Partially  Mixed. Developed
Administration   of engineering studies, road material   Executed capacity for
sources, slopes and pavement               formulating and
analysis; review technical                 monitoring annual
specifications and strengthening of        maintenance
maintenance management                     program. Efforts in
the remaining areas
are being pursued
through the follow
_______________________________   ________Ion   project.



23
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                   (US$M)
Item             Local Foregin            Local  Foregin
l____________________________ Costs  Costs   Total   costs    Costs   Total
1. Highway improvements,
road safety and supervision    197.2  132.7   329.9    99.3    167.1   266.4
. Maintenance equipment
and spare parts             5.5    31.5    37.0      0.4     11.4    11.8
3 Consultant services for
technical assistance       5.0    2.0      7.0      2.3      1.4      3.7
4. Training                   1.84    0.36     2.2     0.1       0.4     0.5
5. Unallocated                        12.1    12.1      0        0        0
TOTAL             209.54  178.66   388.2   102.1    180.3   284.3
(1) Based on Pari-passu estimated in SAR
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal          Actual/latest estimate
esti mate (US$M)             (US$M)
Local  Foreign           Local  Foreign
Source             Costs   Costs   Total   Costs   Costs   Total
IBRD/1DA                       1.64   178.66   180.3            180.3   180.3
Domestic contribution
IFVN                           10.7   197.2   207.9   102.1       0     102.1
Total                         12.34   375.86   388.2   102.1   180.3   282.4
.    ..                ...



Table 9: Economic Cost and Benefits
ICR Loan - 2829-CO
Rate of Return - Cost overruns - Execution delays evaluation
Based on INV Calculations
Type                                                               Rate of Return (%)            Delay
Work   Execution time (months)   Project Cost (ColS millions)    SAR    IRR-1  IRR-2    2/1      Causes
Road             (1)   Planned Actual  (A/P)   Planned    Actual   (A/P)               (2)      (2)                (3)
Honda - Mesones          RH          24.0   102.0     4.3   7,938.6  14,290.1      1.8     NA      25.1    17.4     0.7 B,
Barbosa - Cisneros       P           24.0    59.0     2.5   2,898.4   6,582.5      2.3    59.0    60.8    23.6      0.4 
Guayabal -Mariquita      RH          12.0    44.0     3.7   1,682.1   2,390.2      1.4     NA      NA      15.7     NA B, CSB, AW
Libano - Murillo        I-P          18.0    50.0     2.8   3,770.5   5,802.8      1.5     NA      13.2     7.5     0.6 B.E
Barbosa - Velez          P           12.0    59.0     4.9   2,851.0   6,582.5      2.3     NA      48.4    34.5     0.7 B,R
Puerta de Hierro - El    RH          24.0    75.0     3.1   5,581.3   13,834.8     2.5     NA      41.3    32.0     0.8 B,E
Carmen                                                      _
La Mesa - Tocaima        RH          24.0    66.0     2.8   3,820.9   8,605.5      2.3    30.0    22.4    12.0       0.5 B,M
Carreto-ElTigre          RH          24.0    80.0     3.3   3,838.8  11,601.3      3.0    32.0    19.8      1.1     0.1 B
Yopal - Rio Unete        P           24.0    61.0     2.5   3,319.0   6,606.3      2.0     NA      56.0    40.0      0.7 B,E
Oiba - Vado Real         RH          18.0   105.0     5.8   4,356.5  12,656.6      2.9   104.0    29.2      5.7      0.2 B,CSB,AW,R
Pto. Colombia-           P           18.0    49.0     2.7   2,214.5    3,738.7      1.7    NA    110.4      NA          B,M
Sta.Veronica
Rio Neiva - Algeciras    P           24.0    69.0     2.9   1,815.4   3,877.8      2.1    20.0    44.5    21.3       0.5 B
Tres Puertas - La Felisa  P          24.0    57.0     2.4   3,955.1   6,910.4       1.7    27.0    60.7    50.0      0.8 B,M
Neiva - Rio Loro         RH          36.0    85.0     2.4  12,118.6  24,308.7      2.0    40.0    16.5    11.2       0.7 B
Caimo - Club Campestre    P          24.0    44.0      1.8   3,313.4   6,416.9      1.9    NA      61.6    23.2      0.4 B
Chiriguana - Becerril    P           24.0    65.0     2.7   4,681.6   10,667.1     2.3     NA      70.9    46.0      0.6 B
Average                  _           22.1    66.9     3.2                     1    2.1    44.6    45.4    22.7       0.6
(1) RH= Rehabiliation
(2) IRR-1 = Internal rate of return under initial conditions (time and cost)
IRR-2 = Internal rate of return under real conditions (time and cost)
(3) B = Budget laks
AW = Aditional Works required CSB = Contract suspension due budget lacks P = Paving
I  = Geometry improvements   M  = Material source                    E = Equipment   R = Rain



Table 10 Status of Covenants
Colombia
Loan (2829-CO)
OrigIal         Revised
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present        fblflhbnent     fulUtnent                  Description of covenant                                     Comments
type     status         date            date
Loan        2.02 (b)  1         C                                         Borrower to open and maintain in dollars a special account in
Banco de la Republica
Loan        3.01(b)  5-11       CD                                        Borrower to carry out the project in accordance with the  Completion of about 44 on-going road subprojects is being
1987-93 Highways Program and the Annual Highways     financed under the follow-on Loan 3453-CO. Loan proceeds
Program.                                             allocated to civil works were totally committed to
to expenditures incurred under FVN's 1991 budget.
Loan        3.01(c)  5-11       CD        Not later                       Borrower to:(i) fumish to the Bank the Annual Highways  * Last update of the Five-Year Investment Plan (1993-1997)
9/30 ea. year                  Program for the following year, including inter alia the detail was fumished to the Bank in 1993. The program is being
from 1987.                     physical annual program and corresponding detailed financing revised to take into account the redistribution ofjurisdictions
plans, and an update of the 1987-93 Highways Program; (ii)  that followed the restructunng of MOT.
C        3/31 ea. year                   exchange views with the Bank on the progress of the 1987-93
Highways Program; (iii) submit each subprojects for Bank
C                                        approval; (iv) carry out Part C of the Project in accordance   * Last subproject approved in December 1990.
CP                                       with the training program; and (v) submit for Bank's approval * Some components of the training program were not carried
out.
Terms of Reference for each study under Part D. I of the  The program is being updated under Loan 3453-CO.
CD                                       project.                                              * Truck domestic Assembly and Import Policy Study not
carried out
_______________                                                                     (see MOPT's Action Plan)
Loan        5.01(a)  I          NC                                        Borrower to maintain records, accounts adequate to reflect in The auditor (Contraloria General de la republica) has
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and repeatedly pointed out several deficiencies in FVN's
financial condition, including separate records and accounts  accounting procedures. The issue is being addressed under the
for
the project.                                         follow on Loan 3453-CO.
Loan        5.01(b)  I          CD        ea. year                        Borrower to: (i) have its records, accounts and financial  The audit report for financial year 1992 was furmished to the
statements and the records and accounts for the Special  Bank in February 1994. The deadline for submission of the
Account for each fiscal year audited; (ii) fumish to the Bank  report for 1993 has been extended to end-August 1994, to
6/87, 5/88 and                 certified copies of its financial statements as well as the audit allow INV correct the deficiencies pointed out in previous
April
ea. year Thereafter           report.                                               reports.
Guarantee   3.02   12                                                 |Guarantor to: (a) carry out or cause to be carried out the  Mostly in compliance with. All pending issues are part of the
GAction plan; (b) through MOPT, exchange views with Bank  follow-on project (Ln. 3453-CO).
uarantee           112         C               3/31 ea. year _with regard to the progress of the Action Plan; and (c) through



Table 10 Status of Covenants
Colombia
Loan (2829-CO)
Original       Revised
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present       fulfillment     fulfillment                Description of covenant                                   Conunents
type     status         date           date
MOPT, submit to the Bank for the Bank's approval, the
Guarantors updated Action Plan.                     MOPT has not submitted a formal revised version of the
Action plan under this project since 1992. However, the
major reforms introduced since 1991 in the various transport
subsectors are consistent with the goals proposed under the
plan, and in many cases they went even a step further.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
l       F     7 } |Original              Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant status  fulfillment              fulfillment            Description of covenant              Actions                           Comments
type               date                 date                       Objective           __
As_SECrOR POLICY                                                                                                                          Description of covenant
1. Road User Charges
Loan        Sched. 5 12        C       December of                                Improve equity in recovery from  Increase tolls for all vehicle  Tolls were substantially increased in February
users                       categories in                 1993 (a
each year                                  of roads.                   line with heavy construction price new category for heavy vehicles established),
index                        and
and above that, if required, for   subsequently adjusted to reflect local inflation in
heavy axle                   January
trucks.                       1994. Toll revenue account for about 25% of
FVN/INV's
total revenue.
Loan        Sched. 5  12       C       Dec. of                                    Ensure that all vehicle categories Monitor road costs, fuel costs and Under the follow on project (Loan 3453-CO), the
are                         prices,
each year                                  charged at least the associated   and other user charges, and adjust Government has agreed to: a) put into effect
road                        as                            road user
routine and periodic maintenance required.                charges sufficient to cover from 62% in 1992 to
cost.                                                     100%
in 1994 of the total costs of maintenance,
rehabilitation and improvement of the public
road
network. DNP prepared projections comparing
user charges against
expenditure for 1993-1998, but has yet



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Oniginal              Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant status  fulfillment               fulfillment             Description of covenant              Actions                            Comments
l_____       ___       type    ____        date                  date                       Objective____________________
to funmish to the Bank a retrospective review for
1992
and 1993; and b) adjust the retail prices of
gasoline and
diesel to at least achieve parity between thc
yearly
average price of such products at the consumer
level and
the corresponding yearly average of thicir
respective
border prices. Presently, consumer prices are
slightly
higher than border prices.
Loan        Shed 5   12        C       July 1989                                   Adjust the regulatory framework Implement recommendations of   Law 53/90 re-structures INTRA as a normative
road
affecting road transport services, regulation and devices study on   organization in transport and transit, Decree
the new                       2171 of
role of INTRA                 December 1992 eliminated INTRA, Passing its
responsibilities on to the restructured Ministry of
Transport, who will start operating in January
1994,
_____________________   and the departments.
Loan        Shed 5   12        C       July 1989                                   Adjust the regulatory framework Appoint inter-ministerial task  Due to the "aperture" policy, imports of heavy
force to                      trucks
affecting road transport services, review policy for domestic  increased 200% in 1992. The Truck Domestic
assembly and
import of trucks.             Assembly and Import Policy Study was not
carried out
under the project because a similar sttidy was
carried out
by FONADE, addressing domestic efficiency and
protection related issues objectives. New
Customs Code
l_____                                                                          Implement recommendations,    implemented.
Loan        Sched    12        CD       Dec/ 1989                                  Improve efficiency of road fleet. Rationalize controls affecting  Government restructured the National Customs
storage,
handling and traffic of containers. Agency and passed new legislation which
eliminates port
and en-route inspections and streamlines import
and government inspection procedures.
Nevertheless, further reforms are needed to
fully materialize the efficiency gained through
I__________          _________          ___________                                 ___________________________________________________________ privatization of ports administration.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original              Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant status  fulrihnent               fulfilment              Description of covenant              Actions                            Comments
_________   ______   type                 date                  date                        Objective
CP      Dec/87                                                                  Normalization of truck bodies,   See above.
platforms
and other transport equipment.
CP      December                                                                Operational coordination among  Private ports authorized. Mixed societies with
more
1987                                                                    FNC, COLPUERTOS and           Private capital are operating Colombia's five
DGNO                          major
ports. FNC was liquidated in 1990; Ferrovias an
autonomous public agency is responsible for
managing
rail infrastructure, while private operators are
charged a
toll for the use of the tracks. A program is run by
CP      June 1988                                                               Program for training of personnel COLFECAR (the union of transportists).
in
container handling techniques.
Loan        Sched.5  12        C       Dec/1988                                    Promote Multimodal Transport  Review for adoption of the UN    Decree 01/90 modifies Trade Code in Transport    to
Convention                    and                                            o
on International              Insurance, introducing Multimodal Transport of
Goods.
Multimodal Transport of Goods.  Decree 1136 of 1992 create the Multimodal
Transport
Committee. Regulations for Multimodal
transport
operators will be issue very soon by the Junta del
Acuerdo de Cartagena. MOT has recruited
consultants
from UNCTAD to develop an action plan for
multimodal transport facilitation.
Loan        Shed 5   12        C       July 1989                                   Decrease the risk of transport.  Implement compulsory insurance policy
Dec/1989                                                                Revise transport contract      Complied with. (Decree 01/90).
consisting in
Code of Commerce.
Loan        Shed 5   12        C       Jan. of each                                Institutionalize coordination of  Report legal, administrative and   MOPT is about to hire consultants from
operational                   UNCTAD for a
year                                       facilitation measures,       measures undertaken, and work  technical assistance in multimodal and
___________  _______  ______                                           _______________________ _ 1__  program .                   intemrational
trade facilitation. The consultants, among other
tasks,



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original              Revised
Agreement  Section  Covenant status  fulfllment               fhlfilhnent              Description of covenant               Actions                            Conunents
l  type    ____    date                   date                        Objective
will prepare the action plan for this purpose refer
to
under the Third National Roads Sector Project.
MOPT
will hire an expert to facilitate implementation of
action plan.
3. Publc Investnent
Loan        Sched. 5  12        CD      Dec/1988                                    Improve resource allocation.    Implement National Transport    Consultants were hired i 1991. The National
Plan.                         Traa Bpoy  s
loan        Sched. 5 5          NC      August 1988                                  Implement coordination between    ign and mplement system.    Coansults for be complted by end-July 994. A
Conunittee", composed by key of ficials from
DNP  and other seytorial agencies, supervises the
exe    nexecution
l   .                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of the study.
INSTITUTIONAL EF FICIENCY
l1. Mianagerial and Budgetary AspectsI
Loian       SchedL  5           NC      Augugt 1988                                  Implement co-ordination between Design and implernent system.    Consuhts for the Computerize management    S
Dec/1989                                    budgetingpogrnmnn                                           information Sygtem were hired in 1990. The      u
software was completed in April 1994, but so far
no
data has been loaded into the system. New
escalation
C       August 1987                                                               Review Price Adjustment Indices. formulae, base on nine indices, were introduced
for
April 1988                                                                                              adjustment of unit prices of contracts more than
________                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~one-year duration.
Loan        Sched. 5 5          CP      August 1987                                  Systematic performance       Consultants develop and        See above. The consultants completed the design
budgeting and                implement                      of the
Dec/1988                                    monitoring of sector parastatals  a monitoring system.      system to be used by sector parastatals. However,
and
autonomous agencies under                                   implementation will depend on paras totals task
MOPT                                                        forces
most of this parastatals are being structure as a
of Dresult
of Decree 2171 of December 1992.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original              Revised
Agreement  Section  Covenant status  fulfillment               fulllllment             Description of covenant               Actions                            Conmnents
l______   type    ______       date                  date                         Objective
5         CP      Dec. 1987                                    Improve sectorial coordination   Examine policies and formulate   The National Transport Plan Study and the Coin-
and
Dec. 1988                                   administrative and budgeting    investments,                computerized Management Information System
procedures                                                  Study
in each sectorial agency.                                   are yet under execution. Coordination remains
___________   ________   __________   _______  ____________                                                                     critical
Loan        Sched. 5 1          CD      Dec/1988                                     Improve MOPTs accounting and Complete accounting and auditing Delayed MOPT, assisted by consultants,
manuals.                      completed its
auditing procedures                                         new Accounting Manual and is improving its
accounting
information system. Mechanization of accounting
NC      Dec/1989                                                                  Implement computerized         procedures delayed until the new procedures are
accounting                    well
l ________  _______   ________        _   _________  __________________________       ________________________     system .                      established.
2. Road Maintenance Management                                                                                                                                                              l
Loan        Sched. 5  12        CP      Dec/1988                                     Strengthen maintenance       Institutionalize the Maintenance   A Highway Maintenance Unit (GAM) was
organization                                                established as
and planing                  Sub-Directorate.               basis for the Sub-Directorate. This unit remains
in the
Dec/1989                                                                                                structure of the recently created Instituto
Nacional de
Vias. Since all maintenance works will be
contracted out                                  O
and the MOT's districts disbanded, the programs
developed by the Maintenance Unit will
managed by
Task Management Groups responsible for
specific road
corridors
Loan        Sched.5  5          CP      August 1987                                  Improve Maintenance execution  Review quality standards and set  Delayed. MOPT developed maintenance
and                          up system                      standards a
establish quality control.   for their implementation.      four year performance program for preparation
of the
Dec/1988                                                                                                follow-on project; technical assistance to
implement
a maintenance management system will be
provided
under the new project.
Loan        Sched. 5  12        C       Dec/1987                                                                   Increase contracted maintenance  Being complied with. Decree 2171 mandates
l_________________________    and  force                    contract-
resources                    account productivity in        ing out of all works by end 1995. Maintenance of
accordance with               about 19.500 km (75% of the national road
I_______.                      network) has



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original             Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant status  fulfhifnent             fulfillment            Description of covenant             Actions                           Commenb
_____  type  -    date                  date                      Objective
_  _                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~been contracted out to miicro-empresas, an
l                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~innovate and
Dec/1993                                                              targets                       cogt effective altemative. Compliance with the
l                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agreed
rnaintenance program is beginning monitored
Linder the
follow-on project.
Loan        Sched 5  5        NC      Aug/1988                                  Improve costing and accounting  Systematic accounts       Mechanization of cost accounting delayed till
of                                                       new
maintenance operations                                   accounting procedures are established.
Computers have
AugJ1987                                                              Expand systematization of spare  been distributed to each district and
parts                        mechanization of
June 1988                                                             all districts.               spare parts has been achieved in 70% of
workshops.
However, the districts will be Eliminated under
the new
institutional set up.
Loan        Sched 5  5        CP      August 1987                                Improve equipment management Increase systematization of control Although MOT has improved its equipment
of                           monitor
availability, utilization and costs  ring system, mechanization has not yet taken
of                           place. Its
equipment, from 50% to 100%    rnaintenance fleet, however, is presently slated
for
l_______                                                                                                            liquidation.
Loan        Sched 5  5        CT      Dec/1988                                   Vehicle weight control      Complete first phase of equipment FVN?INV purchased 9 fixed scales and 9
portable
procurement.                 scales in 1993.
NC     June 1988                                                              Portable scales operational  Only one portable scale was operational in 1993.
It is
expected that about 15 will become operational
in 1995.
NC     Dec/ 1988                                                              Installation of dynamic scales    Not done. They will be procured under follow-
on project
3. Civil Works Contract AdntLnistration
Loan        Sched. 5 15       CD      Dec/1987                                   Improve quality of engineering   Design standards prepared by  MOPT adopted new TORs for preparation of
I                 I       I           I                              I .   l studies             I Consultants.               |road



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original              Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant status  fuHillnent                fulillment              Description of covenant              Actions                            Comments
l  type   _____    date                  date                        Objective
and of technical specifications.                           engineering studies and is upgrading the
technical
specifications. Revision of geometric road design
______                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~standards will completed soon.
NC      December                                                                 Follow-up Study of Material   Not carried out. However, the updating of the
1987                                                                    Sources                       inventory
of road materials sources was contracted out to
the
National University in 1991, and data collected
from
MOPTs districts.
Loan        Sched. 5 5         CD       April 1987                                 Expedite Bidding and         Streamline MOPrs bidding and  New pre-qualification and bidding documents
Contracting                                                completed
procedures                   contracting procedures.      for use under the follow-on project.
Loan        Sched. 5 5         CP      August 1987                                 Strengthen Works Supervision  limplement a policy for      MOPT has recently strengthened its supervision
rationalization
of contracted supervision.    capacity by creating task management teams
who are
responsible for managing all aspects of work
programming and supervision in specific
corridors.
4. Personnel Training                   _
Loan        Sched. 5          5 CP     December of                                 Implement Training Program    Execute agreed program        Training will continue under follow-on project
each year.
NC      September                                                                Remodel Bogota Training Center The location of the existing building is not
1988                                                                                                  appropriate
for training purposes. It was agreed not to
remodel the
tramimng center.
I    NC    iDecemnber 1988                                                            Instal training equipmcnt.    Not implemented.



Key Covenan Types:
I          =        Accounsandh
2                    Finail perfo    Fna evme generation fim  beneficiaries               S         =         Indienouspeople
3                    Flow and utilization of project fuinds                               9                   Monitoring, review, and repoting
4          =         Couapt funding                                                       10        =         Projed Implemetaion not covered by categories 1-9
5                   Mangement apects of the project or execting agency                    11                  Sedorial or crosssectorial budgdary or other resource allocation
6                    Enviro_matal covenants                                               12                  Sectorial or cross-sectorial policy/regulatory/institutional acion
7          =         invohe y resedlanent                                                 13        =         Other
C         =         covenant complied with                                                SOON    =          compliance expected in reasonably short time
CD        =         complied with after delay                                             CP        =         complied with partially
NC        =         not complied wih                                                      NYD       =         not y  due
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of proyect                                         Planned                                  Revised                               Actual
cycle                               Weeks                 US$ (1)    Weeks    US$ (1)    Weeks    US$ (1)
Through appraisal                                                                                                                                 484 
Appraisal-Board                                                                                                                                    9._6
Board-effectiveness
Supervision                                                                                                                                       56.3
Completion                                                                                                                                            9
Total                                                                                                                                           123.3
(1) Information not available



Table 13: Bank Resources Missions
Number                    Specialized            Performance rating
Stage of       Month/        of        Days in       Staff Skills     Implementation    Development      Types of
Project cycle     Year      Persons      Field        Represented           Status         Objectives      problems
Through appraisal      Mar-86             2        14 TE, HE
Jul-86           4         80 TE, HE, C
Sep-86            1         6 HE
Oct-86            4       104 TE, SA, FA, HE, C
Appraisal through
Board approval                            .
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision            Apr-88             2        24 FA,TA                                 2               AF
Mar-89             2        24 FA,TA                                2                AF,PM
Jun-90            4        48 FA, TE, C                             2               AF
Jun-92                                                              2               PM
Nov-92             3        36 FA, HE, EE,                          2                PM
Apr-93            2         33 HE,TE, C                             2                AF,PM
Aug-93             4        27 HE,TE                                2
Oct-93            3        20 HE,TE,FA, C                           2                AF,PM CLC
May-94             3        25 HE, EE, C                            S
Jul-94            5          HE,TE,C                               S                AF,PM CLC
Completion             Mar-93             1         6 C
TOTAL                                       447
EE = Environmental Engineer                 C = Consultant                                    FA  = Finance Analyst
HE = Highway Engineer                       SA = Social Analyst                               TE  = Transport Engineer
AF = Availability of funds                  PM = Project Management perf.                     CLC = Compilance legal covenants
(1) = Time shared with other projects in Colombia



35                                       Annex 1
Loan - 2829-CO
Disbursements
Fiscal             Disbursement Planned                            Disbursement Actual
Year US$ million Acumulated % Year % Acumulated US$ million Acumulated % Year % Acumulated
1988      31.00       31.00    17.19          17.19       11.40       11.40    6.32           6.32
1989      35.60       66.60    19.74          36.94       18.30       29.70   10.15           16.47
1990      36.20      102.80   20.08           57.02       86.40      116.10   47.92          64.39
1991      30.50      133.30   16.92           73.93       40.70      156.80   22.57          86.97
1992      26.10      159.40   14.48           88.41       17.70      174.50    9.82           96.78
1993      19.70      179.10   10.93           99.33        2.80      177.30     1.55          98.34
1994       1.20      180.30    0.67          100.00        3.00      180.30     1.66         100.00
DISBURSEMENT ESTIMATED VS ACTUAL
90o
80    _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _
70/
z
0
-J-
40
o 30, .... .-
20
88        89         90         91         92         93         94
FISCAL YEAR
1 ESTIMATED U ACTUAL
FISCAL Y                  88      89       90      91       92      93       94
IESrMATE                  311    35.6    36.2    30.5    26.1    19.7_    1.2
ACIUAL                  11.4    18.3    86.4    40.7    17.7       2.8        3



36                                       Annex 2
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE VIAS
OFICINA PROYECTOS ESPECLALES Y MEDIO AMBIENTE
SEGUNDO PROYECTO SECTORIAL DE CARRETERAS - PRESTAMO BIRF LN-2829-CO
AVANCE FISICO ALCANZADO CON CADA RECURSO
Avance Fisico   _
Sector                 Long. Rec. Propios |1471-Co 2121-Co 2829-Co|
Kms       Kms        Kms    Kms    KmsJ Tipo
Honda - Mesones                           70.0                            67.7      2.3  R
El Picacho - Pamplona                     73.0                            47.7    25.3  R
Chiflas - Piedecuesta                     29.0                   25.3               3.7  R
Barbosa - Cisneros                        61.0                            12.2    48.8  P
Chiguinguira - Puente Otero               26.0                                      0.2  P
Chusaca - Girardot                       170.0                            74.1    37.4  R
Tunja - Vado Real                        104.0          32.7     0.00     48.2    22.5  R
Rio Loro - Pitalito                       88.0                            55.5      2.5  R
Puerto Valdivia-K. 262                    96.0                            41.9    54.1  R
Bucaramanga - El Picacho                  50.0                            20.6    23.4  R
Bogota - Honda ( K 126 - K 136)           10.0           1.3               0.0      8.7  R
Guayabal - Mariguita                      20.9                            12.0     8.9  P
Libano - Murillo                          22.0           1.6              20.4      0.0  P
Armero - Cambao                           23.8           1.4              17.4     5.0  P
Puente Lagunilla                          45.0                             7.9    37.1 PTE
K. 96 - Ambalema                          13.5                            11.6      1.9  P
Armero - San Pedro Falan                  16.0           0.1               3.3     6.6  P
El Diviso - Ricaurte                      47.7                             2.0     6.4  P
Barbosa - Bucaramanga (K 136 - K 141)     22.5                             2.5    12.0  R
Ricaurte - La Verbena                     45.6                             0.7      1.7  P
Puerta De Hierro - El Carmen              40.0                             0.3    39.7  R
San Roque - Bosconia                      90.0                                    30.0  R
Caimo - Club Campestre                     8.4           1.7      _                6.7  P
Guasca - K 50 Y Paso Nacional             16.7                            12.3     4.4  P
Q. Naranjal - Villavicencio               43.0          20.0                      21.4  R
La Mesa - Tocaima                         39.2                            21.7    17.5  R
Tunja - Villa De Leyva                    37.9                                    34.5  R
Chorodo - Puente Corozal                  16.4                                     0.0  R
Barbosa - Velez                           16.8                            11.1     5.7  P
Bello - Rio Nechi                        106.6                                    48.0  R
Chipaque - K. 68                          42.0                                    30.0  R
Campo Godoy - Puerto Triunfo              27.5                                    27.5  P
Ortega - C. Olaya Herrera                 21.4                                    21.2  P
Castilla - Coyaimna                       16.9                             9.7     7.2  P
G/ Zamba - Sta. Veronica ( K46 - K 64)    18.0          10.1                       7.9  P
Sampues - Puerto De Hierro                44.4                             4.3    18.9  R
Manglar - Caflas Gordas                   18.7                                     5.6  P
Mesones - Manizalez                       58.0                                    58.0  R
Granada - San Juan De Arama               32.5                                    19.5  P
Puente Corozal - El Chino                 26.6                                     0.0  R
Pereira - Alcala                          19.0 _                                   0.6  P
Cumaral - Rio Humea                       31.6                             0.1     0.0  P
La Linea - Armenia                        34.8          28.2 _                     6.6  R



37                                        Annex 2
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE VIAS
OFICINA PROYECTOS ESPECIALES Y MEDIO AMBrENTE
SEGUNDO PROYECTO SECTORIAL DE CARRETERAS - PRESTAMO BIRF LN-2829-CO
AVANCE FISICO ALCANZADO CON CADA RECURSO
Avance Fisico
Sector                  Long. Rec. Propios  1471-Co |2121-Co |2829-Co       o
Kms       Kms         Kms    Kms    Kms 1i4p
Chitaga - La Legia                         36.9           4.8          .             32.1   P
Chiriguana - Becerril                      71.0                             39.1    31.9   P
Ocaffa - El Tarra                          53.0                                      33.8  P
Carreto - El Tigre                         23.8           7.1                        15.7  R
Sta. Marta - San Vicente Del Caguan        18.8           11.2                        7.6  P
Yopal - Rio Unete                          36.0         31.04                         4.4   P
La Ye - Sampues                            48.7                             16.4    24.1   R
Monteria - Aeropuerto                       10.6                                     10.6  P
Chinacota - Toledo                         32.2                              6.5    25.7   P
Vado Real - Oiba                           29.0,                            15.9    13.1  R
K. 262 - Planeta Rica                      76.0                             36.3    39.7  R
Pto. Colombia - Sta. Veronica (K64-K7)      11.0           2.9                        8.1   P
Rio Neiva - Algeciras                       13.5           7.6                        5.9  P
Laberinto - Paicol                         33.5                                      33.5   P
Cambao - T. De Viani                       45.01                            11.7    12.6  P
La Union - La Frontera                      18.9                             8.4    10.5   P
Bosconia - Valledupar                      93.0          60.8                        32.2  R
Saldaffa - Espinal                         28.0           18.9                        9.1  P
Tocaima - Girardot                         31.6                             22.5      9. 1  R
Chinchina - La Manuela                      7.0           2.3                2.5      2.2   P
Popayan - Patico                           18.2                            f16.3      0.5   P
Plato - Bosconia                          112.6                              4.4      9.4   P
Ipiales - Gualmatan                        22.2                              4.5      4.7   P
Monteria - Planeta Rica - La Ye           105.0                             67.7    37.3  R
Carmen - Zambrano                          40.5                                      17.5   P
Tres Puertas - La Felisa                   41.7                             16.2    25.5   P
Florida - Santander                        55.6           7.1               25.9      8.0  P
Carmen - Carreto                           44.7                              2.9    11.5  R
Rio Nechi - Puerto Valdivia                61.0                                      25.3   R
Remolino - Ciudad Bolivar                  17.01                                      0.0  P
Puente La Rampa                            20.6           7.6                        13.0 PTE
K. 27 - Pto. Araujo                         9.5                                       4.4   P
Rio San Juan - K. 27                        8.1                                  _   2.7   P
Caflo Alegre - Pto. Boyaca                 15.7                                      15.7  P
La Caro - Ventaguemada                     97.0                             39.9    30.1  R
Neiva - Rio Loro                           99.0                             82.9    16.1  R
La Frontera - Sonson                       36.4 _                                    36.4   P
Remolino - Jardin                          49.0                                       0.0  P
Puente Rio San Juan                        50.0           0.3                        20.2 PTE
K.81 - K. 102 ( Pto. Araujo - La Lizama)   21.0                                       0.0  P
Puerto Araujo - K. 57                      20.5                                       0.0  P
K. 57 - K. 81 ( Pto. Araujo - La Lizama)   24.0                                       0.0  P
Guasca- Gacheta                                                                         I



38                                   Annex 2
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE VIAS
OFICINA PROYECTOS ESPECIALES Y MEDIO AMBIENTE
SEGUNDO PROYECTO SECTORIAL DE CARRETERAS - PRESTAMO BIRF LN-2829-CO
AVANCE FISICO ALCANZADO CON CADA RECURSO
l   l ___________  Avance Fisico
Sector               Long. Rec. Propios 1471-Co 2121-Co 2829-Co
Kms      Kms   I Kins    Kms | Kms    Po
TOTAL       Kms                    13527.2t      258.71   25.3_ 925.2  1326.4|
TOTAL       Mts                      _                                          _
* Se Refiere A Kil6metros Pavimentados
** Metros Terminados






I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






"I HMIAz; rN :
Repc'rt No.          1472r5
Type:  .CR



