Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2829 CO
(Second National Highways Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO VIAL NACIONAL
Dated October 8, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2829 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1987 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO VIAL NACIONAL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 11, 1987 from the 
Guarantor, describing the Guarantor's policies for the development of its transport 
sector for the years 1987 through 1993 (the Transport Sector Development Letter).
(B)
Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
Page  2
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Sub-project" means any sub-project included in Parts A and B of the 
Project and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(c)
"MOPT" means the Guarantor's Ministry of Public Works and Transportation;
 
(d)
"Estatuto" means the estatutos of the Borrower enacted by Law No. 64 
dated December 27, 1967 and Decree No. 2862 dated November 20, 1968 and as such Law 
and Decree may be amended from
time to time;
(e)
"1987-1993 Highways Program" means the MOPT's Highways Sector Program, as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(f)
"Annual Highways Program" means the MOPT's annual highway program for 
1987, as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, and each highways program prepared 
annually by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)(i) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Action Plan" means the plan of actions that MOPT shall take or cause to 
be taken towards achieving the objectives defined in the Transport Sector Development 
Letter, regarding the highways sub-sector, as agreed between the Guarantor and the 
Bank, and as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Guarantor and the Bank*; and
(h)
"Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for Loan No. 2121 CO 
(Highway Sector Project) of May 13, 1982, between the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred eighty million three hundred thousand dollars 
($180,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Banco de la Republica on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
Page  3
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to
one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last 
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such 
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the 1987-1993 Highways Program and the Annual 
Highways Programs.
(c)
Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
furnish to the Bank, not later than September 30, 1987 and every 
year 
thereafter, the Annual Highways Program for the following 
year, satisfactory 
to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the 
detailed physical annual 
program and corresponding detailed 
financing plans, and an update of the 
1987-1993 Highways 
Program;
(ii)
not later than March 31 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
Page  4
with regard 
to the progress of the 1987-1993 Highways Program;
 
(iii)
submit each Sub-project for the Bank's approval, with an 
application in a form 
satisfactory to the Bank, containing: (A) a 
description and analysis of the 
respective Sub-project, including: (1) 
final cost estimates; (2) final 
implementation schedule; and (3) 
economic evaluation; and (B) such other 
information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request;
(iv)
carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the training 
program agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Bank; and
 
(v)
submit to the Bank, for the Bank's approval, the terms of 
reference for each 
study under Part D.1 of the Project.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of fiscal year 1987, five months 
after the end of fiscal 
year 1988, and four months after the end of 
each fiscal year thereafter: (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
Page  5
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE VI
Amendment to the Prior Loan Agreement
Section 6.01. The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended by deletion of the text 
of Section 5.02 thereof and the substitution therefor of the text of Section 5.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the Estatutos of the Borrower or any provision thereof shall have 
been amended, suspended or abrogated in a manner which would affect, materially and 
adversely, the operations and financial condition of the Borrower or the performance 
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
that an event has occurred which makes it unlikely that the policies 
described in the Transport Sector Development Letter will be adopted or that they have 
in fact not been implemented;
and
(c)
that an event has occurred which makes it unlikely that the Action Plan, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out or that the Action Plan, or a 
significant part thereof, has not been carried out.
Section 7.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in Section 
7.01 shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date January 6, 1988, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
Page  6
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Fondo Vial Nacional
MOPT-CAN
Bogota
Colombia
Telex:
MOPT-FVN
45656-0 MOPT-CO
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO VIAL NACIONAL
By /s/ Ximena Andrade de Casalino
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works under
     Parts A (2), (3),
     (4) and B of
     the Project:
Page  7
     (a) advances made          42,500,000      100%
         to contractors
         up to amounts
         not exceeding
         20% of the
         value of each
         contract awarded
         after January 1,
         1987
     (b) payments, other        46,800,000      28%
         than those for
         (a) above, for
         contracts awarded
         after January 1,
         1987
     (c) payments for           35,300,000      42%
         contracts awarded
         prior to January 1,
         1987
(2)  Consultants'                8,100,000      42%
     services under
     Part A (6) of
     the Project
(3)  Goods, except for          32,000,000      100% of foreign
     Part C (b) of the                          expenditures and
     Project                                    90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  (a) Works, goods            1,100,000      65%
         and consultants'
         services under
         Part C of the
         Project
     (b) Scholarships              400,000      100% of foreign
         under Part C                           expenditures and
         of the Project                         65% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)  Consultants'                2,000,000      100% of foreign
     services under                             expenditures and
     Part D.1 of the                            30% of local
     Project                                    expenditures
(6)  Unallocated                12,100,000
                             ____________
          TOTAL               180,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1987; (b) payments made for expenditures for the 
Page  8
Project, unless the Bank shall have approved the updated Action Plan pursuant to 
Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement; (c) payments made for expenditures for a 
Sub-project, unless the Sub-project is part of the Annual Highways Program accepted by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)(i) of this Agreement and the Bank shall have 
approved such Sub-project pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)(iii) of this Agreement; and (d) 
payments made in respect of each study
under Part D.1 of the Project, unless the Bank shall have approved the terms of 
reference for such study pursuant to Section 3.01(c) (v) of this Agreement.
4.
Notwithstanding the disbursement percentage set forth in the Categories of the 
table in paragraph 1 above, the Bank may, without in any way limiting its rights under 
Section 5.04 of the
General Conditions, until the Closing Date, by notice to the Borrower, increase or 
reduce such percentages, from time to time, in order to ensure that the Bank's 
participation in the financing
of the 1987-1993 Highways Program does not exceed 21% of such program's total cost.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the Borrower's 1987-1993 Highways Program and its main 
objective is to assist the Borrower in the execution of such program by: (a) financing 
the execution of technically and economically feasible Sub-projects; and (b) providing 
technical assistance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Highway Improvements
 
(1)
Construction of new roads,
 
(2)
rehabilitation of paved roads and gravel roads,
 
(3)
paving of gravel roads,
 
(4)
execution of periodic maintenance of paved roads,
 
(5)
execution of routine maintenance,
 
(6)
provision of technical assistance to assist the Borrower in the supervision of 
road rehabilitation, paving and periodic maintenance civil works; and
(7)
acquisition and utilization of road maintenance equipment and spare parts, 
vehicle weighing scales and communications equipment.
Part B:
Road Safety
 
Carrying out of a road safety program, including the acquisition and utilization 
of materials and equipment.
Part C:
Training
 
Execution of a training program for the Borrower's professional staff, 
including: (a) construction and rehabilitation of training facilities, (b) acquisition 
and utilization of training
equipment and materials, and (c) provision of scholarships abroad.
Part D:
Studies
 
1.
Carrying out of studies on: (a) road transport regulation, (b) investment 
planning, (c) budget programming and execution, (d) highway administration, (e) slope 
analysis, (f) pavement
analysis, (g) technical specifications, and (h) maintenance management; and
Page  9
2.
Carrying out of additional studies as required to foster the objectives of the 
Project.
*     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1992
through   March 1, 2004
6,935,000
 
On September 1, 2004
6,925,000
__________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the  balance out-
standing on the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  10
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
(a)
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$3,000,000 may be awarded in accordance with competitive bidding procedures locally 
advertised, satisfactory to the Bank, provided however that awards shall be made to 
the lowest evaluated bidders.
(b)
Spare parts under Part A (7) of the Project and training equipment under 
Part C of the Project, estimated to cost in the aggregate not more than the equivalent 
of $5,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Without limitations upon the provisions of the Guidelines, in respect of 
procurement of goods or works under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part A hereof:
1.
No requirement of local agents for bidders shall be made.
 
2.
No prior registration of bidders shall be required.
 
3.
No provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied.
 
4.
Bids for goods shall be evaluated on a C.I.F. basis.
 
5.
Freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for purposes of bid 
evaluation.
6.
Awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders.
 
Page  11
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories means the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  12
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence 
as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first
arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
Page  13
