Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2829 CO
(Second National Highways Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 8, 1987
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Fondo Vial Nacional (the Borrower), having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred eighty million three hundred thousand dollars 
($180,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby 
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and 
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and 
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of 
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for carrying out the Project, 
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or 
cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such 
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses, foreign 
exchange permits and all other
approvals required under the laws of the Guarantor, to ensure the timely procurement 
of the goods and services required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall: (a) carry out or cause to be carried out the 
Action Plan with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative practices; (b) not later than March 31 of each year, through MOPT, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Action Plan; and (c) 
not later than September 30 of each year, through MOPT, submit to the Bank, for the 
Bank's approval, the Guarantor's updated Action Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Page  3
Plaza San Agustin,
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Ximena Andrade de Casalino
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
