Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20188
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 23750)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.9 MILLION (US$27.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
March 16, 2000
Human Development Unit, AFTH4
Afiica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = Kwanza (Kz)
Kzl=US$ 0.17
US$ I = Kz 5.88
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                African Development Bank
ANU                 Agostinho Neto University
BCT                 Basic Center for Training
DCE                 Division of Construction and Equipment
EC                  European Community
EDIMEL              Empresa Regional de Aquisicao e Distribuicao de Equipamentos e Material
Didactico e Escolar de Luanda (Entreprise for the acquisition and distribution
of school equipment and teaching material in Luanda)
EMATEB              Empresa de Material Escolar de Benguela (Entreprise for school material
in Benguela)
EMT                 Ensino Medio Tecnico (Technical Middle-Level Education)
FAS                 Fundo de Apoio Social (Social Action Fund)
GEP                 Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento (Office of Studies and Planning)
HIES                Higher Institute of Educational Sciences
INE                 National Institute of Education (Primary Teacher College)
INIDE               National Institute for Educational Research and Development
MOE                 Ministry of Education
NCL                 National Center for Literacy
NGOs                Non-Governmental Organizations
PCC                 Project Coordination Committee
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
RSEE                Reformula,ao do Sistema de Educacao e Ensino (Refonn of the Education
System)
SIP                 Integrated Sector Program
TA                  Technical Assistance
UN                  United Nations
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
UNESCO              United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
VTC                 Vocational Training Center
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:   Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leaders:   Wim Alberts and Joseph Bredie



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Implementation Completion Report
Angola- First Education Project
Credit No. 2375-AO
CONTENTS
Page No
l. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
1 0. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               31
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR (Original Version)                                          32
Annex 9. Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission (January 2000)                                 54
Annex 10. Summary Accounts Cost Summary                                             57
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000042                                      Project Name: EDUCATION I
Team Leader: Joseph W. B. Bredie                         TL Unit: AFTH4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 16, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: EDUCATION I                                      L/C Number: 23750
Country/Department: ANGOLA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/21/90                               Effective: 12/08/92           12/08/92
Appraisal:  10/16/91                                 MTR: 02/01/96             02/01/96
Approval:  06/02/92                               Closing: 09/30/97           09/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo                           Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Barbara Kafka                            Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                          Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Joseph Bredie                           Djamalddine Rouag
ICR Primary Author:   Wim Alberts; Joseph Bredie and
Anne Anglio
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall Project objectives were to support the Government of Angola (GOA) to start correcting the
major inefficiencies in the education sector and prepare a strategy for the overall rehabilitation and
expansion of the education system. In the beginning of the 1990s, the education sector in Angola faced
tremendous inefficiencies and challenges:



* Quality and efficiency of education were exceptionally low. Among the factors adversely affecting the
quality and efficiency of education were the physical conditions and time available for the
teaching/learning process, the availability and relevance of curricula, teacher qualifications and
supervision, pedagogical support, and textbooks.
* Access to schools was limited by a scarcity of classrooms. In 1989 the gross enrollment rate for basic
education was about 52%. The basic education enrollment grade structure (4-2-2) had the shape of a
pyramid. It showed a wide base and a very narrow summit, with 87 percent of all basic education
students at the first level (grade 1-4), 10 percent at the second level (grade 5-6), and 3 percent at the
third level (grade 7-8). Transition rates between the levels were very low. Access of students to the
second and third levels of basic education was extremely limited. Middle and higher education had an
even more narrow recruitment base.
* The capacity to manage and administer the education sector was severely constrained. Ineffective
organizational structures and under-developed managerial and planning capacities affected both the
efficiency and effectiveness of resource allocation and the development of appropriate ways to address
the inefficiencies and challenges of the sector.
The Project had four specific objectives: (i) setting up a demonstration model for education through
improvement of the quality of inputs and the physical conditions of teaching; (ii) enhancing sector
management capacity, (iii) improving the quality of economic training and strengthening the information
system of the university; (iv) and preparing a strategy for the overall rehabilitation, revitalization and
progressive expansion of the education system and undertaking preparatory work for future investments.
Through these objectives the Project aimed to establish the basic conditions and framework for
development of an investment program to meet overall sector needs. The implementation of the Project
would provide the experience required for generalizing the improvements across the education system.
3.2 Revised Objective:
During the Mid-Term Review, project savings and some of the yet uncommitted project funds (in
the amount of US$ 2.5 million) were utilized to finance certain priority activities in the education sector.
These included the purchase of over a million textbooks and teaching/learning materials for primary
schools across the country.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 Setting up a demonstration model and helping to improve the quality and conditions of
teaching (US$ 15.2 million). The Project would: (i) strengthen the National Institute for Educational
Research and Development (1NIDE) to enable it to carry out its functions of producing relevant curricula,
teaching materials, examinations and evaluation systems; (ii) provide textbooks for the demonstration
model primary and secondary schools; (iii) establish a prototype Primary Teachers college; and (iv)
rehabilitate and construct primary and secondary schools.
3.3.2 Strengthening the management capacity of the education sector (US$ 5.5 million). The Project
would: (i) develop a capacity for the training of the sector's administrators; (ii) improve the central
institution's capabilities for data collection, planning, budgeting and financial management, and material
and human resources management; and (iii) assist the Ministry of Education (MOE) in its efforts toward
decentralization through strengthening the capacity of the provincial and municipal delegations for planning
-2 -



and financial management. The Project would strengthen the directorates and services responsible for
planning, budgeting, and monitoring of expenditures, staff management, and the management information
system (MIS) of MOE.
3.3.3 Improving the quality of the teaching of economics and prepare for addressing development
and efficiency issues in higher education (US$ 3A million)  The Project would increase the quality of
inputs at the faculty of economics and enhance the management information system of the Agostinho Neto
University. The Government's move from a centrally planned to a market-oriented economy implied major
changes in the area of economics training. The Project would support the Government's efforts to: (i)
undertake a program to upgrade the qualifications of the professors of the Faculty of Economics; (ii)
provide training for the Faculty's administrative staff; (iii) reorganize the Faculty library; and (iv) provide
furniture and equipment for classrooms, administrative offices and the faculty library. To strengthen the
MIS for the university, the project would: (i) streamline the organization of its administrative and technical
services; (ii) rationalize the existing data collection process and progressively expand into an integrated
management information system; (iii) provide training for administrative personnel; and (iv) provide
equipment for the relevant services.
3.3.4 Preparing a strategy for the overall rehabilitation, revitalization and progressive expansion of
the education system and undertake preparatory work for future investments (US$ 0.4 million). The
Project would finance pre-investment studies on teacher training, private education, costs and financing of
education, school mapping, higher education and the organization and functioning of the MOE. The project
would provide funds for the preparation of future investment projects to be submitted to donors. In
addition, the Project would strengthen the university's management information system.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not Applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was designed in 1991/92, at a time when many Angolans aspired to have finally
reached the end of three decades of civil conflict. Hopes were high to enter into an era of lasting peace,
reconstruction and development. In what was thought to be a post-conflict situation, Angola was faced
with the enormous human toll of the civil strife and an education sector in disarray. The long-lasting
conflict had caused critical damage to the quality and opportunities for education, and to the capacity to
manage the sector. The Project was designed to address these key educational issues, in an achievable,
realistic and not overly complex manner. The objectives of the Project were relevant for an education
project in a post-conflict situation, responsive to the needs and well articulated. In "post-conflict" Angola,
at the time, the capacity to manage a larger or more comprehensive education sector program or project
was lacking. The choice, therefore, to opt for a limited two-pronged strategy to develop a demonstration
model targeting quality improvement and increased access, while at the same time strengthening the
capacity to replicate the lessons learned from implementing the model, made sense. The design of the
project was technically and institutionally sound, and at the time it seemed likely that the Project as
designed could be implemented efficiently.
The Project was well embedded in Angola's overall strategy for reconstruction and the objectives
of the Project were fully consistent with the Government's strategy to develop a sectoral approach to the
adjustment, rehabilitation, revitalization, and progressive expansion of the education system. The Project
was the product of an extensive dialogue between the Government and the Bank. The objectives of the
Project were also consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy for Angola, which were to help
- 3 -



promote economic growth, improve the poor social conditions of most Angolans and ensure that the
country's environment is protected. The Project, in addition, had a gender objective aimed at ensuring
equal gender access to education. The construction of new primary and secondary schools would increase
the opportunities for access at these levels. The Project had an environmental dimension aimed at adapting
environmental issues in the primary and secondary curricula. Finally, many key actions relevant to the
success of the Project had been incorporated into dated legal covenants in the Development Credit
Agreement.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the development objective of the Project can be rated satisfactory. The Project
helped the Government of Angola to start correcting the major inefficiencies in the education sector and
prepare a strategy for its overall rehabilitation, revitalization and progressive expansion. With the
accomplishment in whole or part of the Project objectives, and the drafting of the 1998 basic law on
education, the Government is ready to introduce a reformed education structure (6-3-3) that would correct
the major inefficiencies." The cost of introducing the new structure has been estimated. The MOE will be
able to introduce the comprehensive education reform program across Angola if the war abates. With the
cessation of hostilities, defense expenditures will be reduced and the necessary funds for the education
reform program will become available through the effective allocation of the energy tax for education, and
donor support.
The outputs achieved under the components meet and in some cases exceed original targets. The
Project successfully implemented and tested a demonstration model for basic education. It substantially
increased MOE's capacity to manage and administer the education system. It successfully introduced
reforms in tertiary education, and the MOE formulated a comprehensive strategy for the reform of the
education system. The positive results of improving the quality of inputs in the demonstration schools and
the increased institutional capacity has prepared MOE for the generalization of the model. The MOE
installed the education reform in the model schools and has replicated the demonstration model over the last
two years in both urban and rural areas of Angola. In 1998/99, the Ministry of Education, in collaboration
with the Social Action Fund (FAS) and the Food for Work program of the World Food Organization
(PAM) built 300 primary schools (grade 1-4) in rural areas and 350 secondary schools (grade 5-8) in
urban and peri-urban areas. These schools were modelled on the experiences with the demonstration
schools.
The Project introduced quality improvements into the demonstration model schools : (i) new or
rehabilitated classrooms with furniture and equipment; (ii) adequate provision of teaching/learning
materials and textbooks; (iii) increased teaching/learning time through a double shift instead of triple shift
system; (iv) a teacher/student ratio not exceeding 1:40; (v) quality assurance through qualified teachers and
school directors; and (vi) a screening of students at the second level. The quality inputs and the improved
physical conditions of teaching have a positive impact on teaching and learning. Recently, the MOE
Planning Department carried out a comparison on learning achievements in selected project and non-project
schools. The results show that quality improvement indicators, such as transition rates between the
different basic education levels, basic education completion
(I) The Projecthas not been ableto fully achieve its objective of facilitating the implementation ofthe new education structure(6-3-3) as envisaged in the beginnirigofthe 1990s. Basic education
in Angola continues to be organized along the traditional first, second and third level (4-2-2) grade structure. The preparations for the development ofthe new education structure started in 1987,
however, in 1992 theCtovmnmentmdecided to stall its introduction, until thepolitical militarysituation would stabilize. AtthetimeoftheICRmission, MOE expressed itsontinuedcommitment
tothe education reforn program. INIDE has so far completed about 60 percentofthe preparations, in terms of revising the curriculum, teaching materials, textbooks and teachertraining, and is
planning to finalizethework byMurch 2000. The law which would introducethe neweducation structure has been approved by Cabinet. MOE expects that the Angolan parliament will be able
to ratify the law during this calendar year. A phased and regional introduction of the new structure could then be feasible with the start of the school year in March 2001.
-4-



rates, numbers of qualified teachers, numbers of books per student, and numbers of teachers and pupils
provided with teaching and learning materials are on average better in project schools. The impact of the
Project in terms of learning achievements is also positive. In non-project schools, four years of education
are still not enough to ensure permanent literacy and numeracy. In project schools, on the other hand,
students have acquired basic literacy and numeracy, and learning achievement levels are satisfactory.
A beneficiary assessment (BA) carried out in the Luanda area, comparing project schools with
non-project schools, indicated that the Project has been able to deliver basic education services to the
intended beneficiaries. The quality of the services, as perceived by the recipients, is satisfactory. To those
interviewed, the project schools represent what constitutes a good school: competent teachers and
directorate (94%), functioning in a good physical structure (75%), with a curriculum and textbooks (70%),
teaching and learning materials for the children (64%), and functioning equipment (61%). The BA,
however, also revealed that the project schools might be considered islands of excellency in an education
system that in general remains in dire need of repair. The model schools have created a strong demand
from parents and children for continued efforts to improve the quality of education services and increase
access to opportunities for education. The BA indicated that access to schools remains a huge problem in
the Luanda area. The quality of basic education in non-project schools does not ensure permanent literacy.
The costs of education remain too high for the poor, and teaching is considered a low status job.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  The demonstration model.
Infrastructure. The achievement of the objective to support the Government in setting up a
demonstration model is satisfactory. The constructed and rehabilitated classrooms improved the learning
environment and increased access in the project locations for both boys and girls. The original
infrastructure targets were met. The Project supported the construction of three primary and two secondary
schools, one primary teacher training college and one training center for education administrators. The
Project also helped rehabilitate five primary and four secondary schools. The implementation of the civil
works activities proceeded smoothly albeit with some delays. Initial delays were caused by the renewal of
civil conflict in 1992/93 and by the unfamiliarity of the new Borrower with Bank procedures and
regulations. Since 1994, the implementation of civil works activities has progressed satisfactorily. In that
year, the MOE adapted a phased implementation approach and the Bank team facilitated the preparation of
an Activities/Disbursements/Procurement Schedule. Agreement was further reached on terms of reference,
bidding procedures, design specifications and standards of quality. The lessons learned in the initial phases
of the Project, particularly with regards to the preparation of the civil works activities, building materials,
water, sanitation and drainage were incorporated in the design and construction of infrastructure in later
phases. Site visits of the ICR team to 7 of the schools revealed that the main beneficiaries of the Project
(headmasters, teachers, parents, students and the MOE) consider the performance of contractors and the
quality of outputs satisfactory. The standards of quality have been adhered to. Maintenance of
infrastructure, however, remains a problem due to the lack of funds.
Textbooks.   The achievement of the original objective to acquire 53,000 textbooks and 6,500
library books has been met and exceeded. A total of 1,225,000 textbooks and 7,520,070 pedagogical
materials have been purchased and distributed, contributing to improvements in the quality of education.
An elaborate textbook distribution program, enlisting the support of NGOs, church groups, some UN
agencies involved in the distribution of humanitarian aid, the Social Action Fund (FAS) and the two
para-public companies (EDIMEL and EMATEB) traditionally in charge of the distribution of textbooks,
- 5 -



was put in place to ensure that the textbooks actually get to schools and are effectively used. Distribution
to all the provinces was not possible due to the deterioration of the security situation in 1998/99. The
capacity of FNIDE to procure and evaluate textbooks was strengthened by the training of staff abroad and
by technical assistance frorm the University of Porto.
Primary Teacher Training.   A new prototype teacher training college has been completed in
Luanda in 1999. The college has been constructed, furnished and equipped through the Project. The
college is providing a full-time teacher training program for the final two years of teacher training (grades
11-12), and is in the process of designing more targeted courses (modules) to upgrade the skills of existing
teachers. Currently, the full-time teacher training program is being attended by 310 students (grade 11),
and the college is planning a similar intake for the next academic year, to fully utilize its capacity (600).
The training program consists of subject and pedagogical training, and pre-service teaching practice (1 day
per week). A subset of the teaching staff has been trained abroad and study tours have been completed. A
major problem for the teacher training college is that the budget provided by the Government in principle
only covers salaries, and no other operating costs. Items such as teaching and learning materials,
textbooks, and maintenance are not provided for.
National Institute for Educational Research and Development (IN1DE).  The objective to
strengthen INIDE's technical capacity has been partially achieved. The MOE described INIDE as the least
effective project component. At the time of the ICR mission, WIDE had completed about 60 percent of the
work on the new education sector reform program. The Project provided for all agreed inputs in terms of
staff training, technical assistance and rehabilitation. The Project financed long termn technical assistance
from the University of Porto and from individual experts, and long term training for five 1NIDE staff
abroad (Portugal, Brazil and France). Rehabilitation works at iIDE's headquarters were carried out.
Trained staff members are retained and the technical assistance was adequate, however these efforts did not
result in the timely delivery of the expected outcomes in terms of curriculum design, instructional
guidelines, teaching materials and evaluation instruments for primary education, lower and upper
secondary education and the Teacher Training College. The Project did not finance the topping up of
salaries for the WIDE officials to perform their regular duties. According to MOE, this might have
contributed to WIDE's apparent lack of effectiveness. In a similar situation in the Angola Health project
and in an Education project in Mozambique, the extra income seems to have been granted. The fact that
lNIDE had to vacate their rehabilitated premises in 1999 to the Ministry of Culture and had to move to
non-rehabilitated premises might have further paralyzed their efforts. The newly appointed INIDE director,
however, ensured that work on the program and materials for the new education structure is about 60%
completed and would be finalized before the end of March 2000.
4.2.2 Educational Management
This objective has been achieved. The capacity of MOE to manage the sector improved in the
areas of policy planning and implementation, administration, financial management, and human resources
management. The outputs achieved under the staff training component met and exceed original targets.
Over 100% of MOE staff t-aining under the Project has been completed, 85 staff were trained abroad and
222 were trained locally. To enhance the analytical, technical and managerial capacities within the
Ministry and the provincial Delegation in Luanda, the Project financed the training of 19 staff in planning,
24 staff in financial management and budgeting, 17 staff in human resources management, 23 in school
inspection, 60 staff in administration, 10 staff in school management, 20 school directors to manage project
schools, 2 staff in project management and administrative organization, 40 school directors in teacher
training and 10 staff in school mapping. The capacity for the training of the sector's administrators has
been put in place. The Ministry's capacity for data collection, planning, budgeting and financial
- 6 -



management, and human resources management has been improved, including some of the Provinces. Staff
turnover has been limited and the technical capacity created maintained.
An Administrative Training Center (ATC) has been completed in Luanda in 1999. The Project
provided funds to construct, furnish and equip the training center. A subset of the center's teaching staff
has been trained at universities in Portugal and Brazil. ATC plans to develop modular training courses to
further upgrade the skills of MOE staff in the areas of education planning, administration, financial
management, and human resources management. ATC is able to accommodate four training programs at a
time, with a capacity of 120 places (including dormitory spaces for 60 trainees). ATC started operating in
the latter part of 1999 and at the time of the mission had organized four training seminars: (i) a regional
UNESCO seminar for education planners, attended by 11 MOE staff for 15 days; (ii) two human resources
management courses, attended each by 21 MOE staff for two weeks; and (iii) a refresher course for 80
Angolan school directors for three weeks to upgrade their competencies in financial management,
budgeting, quality assurance and statistics.
The impact of the Project can be measured as: (i) increased technical capacity and systems to
manage the education sector; and (ii) increased capacity to formulate and implement education sector
reform strategies. The MOE introduced: (i) efficient administrative mechanisms, such as a computerized
personnel databank; (ii) financial management systems, including a computerized salary system for
teachers; and (iii) effective education planning practices, including data collection and statistical
evaluations; (iv) a management information system; and (v) effective human resources planning practices
for school management, inspection and teacher training. The MOE formulated and implemented a strategy
to start replicating the demonstration model ahead of schedule. Additionally, at the time of project closure,
the education reform, policy framework and sectoral strategy development processes were well underway.
4.2.3 Higher Education
The achievement of the objective to improve the teaching of economics and prepare for addressing
development and efficiency issues in higher education is satisfactory. All Project activities with regards to
staff training, technical assistance and rehabilitation for the Faculty of Economics of the Agostinho Neto
University have been carried out successfully. Six lecturers were trained abroad, at Ph.D. level, in
macro-economics, econometrics, accountancy and finance. Sixteen lecturers were trained abroad in more
modular post-graduate courses in accountancy, financial management, law, and econometrics. Seven
faculty administrators were trained abroad in public accountancy, applied computer science, statistics, etc.
About thirty staff received additional local training. More than 90% of staff was able to upgrade their
competencies under the Project. The Project also financed long term technical assistance for curriculum
development through the Universities of Lisbon, Porto, Sao Paulo and Barcelona, and procured furniture
and office equipment for the faculty.
The outcome of these activities is satisfactory. The staff training had a positive impact on the
quality of teaching (and learning) of more market oriented economics. Increased access to computers and
office equipment provided staff and students with additional teaching and learning opportunities.
Photocopiers and printers helped to supply teaching and learning materials on a much larger scale. The
provision of textbooks and library reference materials helped the reorientation of central planning to market
oriented economics. Technical assistance resulted in new curricula and learning and teaching materials. Up
to 20% of the faculties' budget is currently generated through commercial consultancies carried out by staff
trained under the Project, which is an indication of the beneficial outcome of the Project.
The achievement of the objective to improve the MIS for the university is not satisfactory. The
-7 -



Project provided technical assistance, training and equipment, but the university was only to a limited
extent able to effectively streamline the organization of its administrative and technical services. The data
collection process was not rationalized into an integrated MIS.
4.2.4 Studies and Preparation for Further Investment
The achievement of the objective to carry out studies to prepare future investment projects is
satisfactory. All pre-investment studies have been carried out, including studies on higher education,
teacher training, private education, costs and financing of education, school mapping and an analysis of the
organization and functioning of the MOE. In general, the studies provided an overview of the current state
of affairs in a number of key areas in the education sector. However, the quality of the outputs varies. The
recommendations cover a wide spectrum of measures for the design and implementation of an education
reform program. Unfortunately, the planned synthesis of the studies, which could have facilitated this
design and implementation process, never materialized. The outputs of the individual studies are valuable
in that they contributed to formulating the first drafts of the education sector policy framework and the
sector reform strategy. The studies also helped in facilitating the dialogue with major stakeholders
regarding the development of an integrated education sector program.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated satisfactory within the confines of the Project. The
Project achieved the educational management objectives. However, to generalize the demonstration model
across the different provinces of Angola and to fully implement the strategy for education reform, the MOE
needs to strengthen its capacity further. The capacity of MOE to administer and manage the sector is not
yet up to this enormous challenge. MOE still faces shortages of skills in administrative and management
areas, especially at the provincial level. The education system, for example, continues to rely on many
unqualified teachers. School management and school inspection needs to be upgraded. The lessons learned
from implementing the model and from building the capacity to start replicating the model are, however,
extremely useful. The MOE has developed much clearer insights in the skills and competencies required
and the ways to address these capacity requirements.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was appraised in May-June 1992, when Angola enjoyed a brief period of peace in its
turbulent post-independence history. A peace accord had been signed in May 1991, and economic reforms
had been introduced with IMF and Bank support. The project was approved in June 1992. Later that year,
the situation deteriorated, as the national elections, acknowledged by the United Nations as fair, were
contested by UNITA. Despite renewed hostilities and political uncertainties, the Project became effective
in December 1992. Although it was clear that the conditions under which the Project was designed had
-8 -



changed and that the opportunities for implementing educational reforms had altered, the Bank continued to
support the new Borrower. The Bank took a calculated risk of building capacity to address the tremendous
challenges for future educational reform.
A new cease-fire was signed in Lusaka in November 1994. In April 1997, a Government of
National Unity and Reconciliation (GURN) was constituted with four ministers from UNITA. Clashes
erupted again in October 1997. Full war resumed in late 1998 and intensified in 1999. The war has
contributed to large displacements of people out of insecure areas.
War was a major factor affecting project implementation, even though the country was relatively
peaceful between November '94 and May '98. Despite the 1994 Lusaka accord, military expenditures
continued to absorb up to 75 percent of the Government budget and crowded out expenditures for the
education sector. In general, Government expenditures remained at an unsustainable level of over 60
percent of GDP, resulting in a budget deficit consistently higher than 20 percent of GDP, and a high level
of inflation, which peaked at over 10,000 percent p.a. in 1996. High inflation has sharply eroded the
buying power of the population, including civil servants.
The war did not affect the Project objectives. The reallocation of funds to address certain
emergency needs (after the Mid-Term Review), could take place within the original objective framework.
The war did have an impact on the areas where the model could be tested. Originally the Project design
included the set up of demonstration models in Benguela and Huila. The choice to focus the project entirely
on the greater Luanda area consequently narrowed down the sample from which lessons could be drawn.
However, the choice for Luanda also enabled the project to be implemented without major interruptions.
Except for a brief period in 1992/93, Luanda was never under siege. The absence of immediate hostilities
in the Luanda area facilitated to some extent that implementation did proceed more smoothly than could
have been the case in other provinces.
The international donor community initially provided very strong support for the implementation of
the Lusaka peace accord. However, in the period following Lusaka, the international community also
witnessed a lack of commitment on the part of the Government to implement economic reforms, and an
increasing lack of commitment from the Government and UNITA to effectively implement the peace
process. The parties did not possess enough political will to fully engage in the process of reconstruction
and development that was so badly needed for the country to recover. The renewed outbreak of hostilities in
1998 resulted in a donor fatigue. Many bilateral donors and multilateral development organizations started
to withdraw from areas or sectors, put programs or projects on hold and eventually started phasing out
from Angola entirely. The Bank opted also for an exit strategy that allowed a continuation of the ongoing
portfolio, but froze the preparation of new lending. The momentum of the international community to
prepare a Sector Investment Program for education dwindled.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Through most of the Project implementation period, there has been little overall Government
commitment to improving the levels of education of the population. Expenditures for education have
remained far below the requirements of the sector, making the delivery of quality services in public sector
facilities extremely difficult. The budget available for the MOE to run the sector barely covers salary
expenditures. GOA has failed to assure that even minimum allocations for non-salary expenditures levels
are made available. Salaries are in addition extremely low and not always paid regularly. As a result
teachers went repeatedly on strike between 1994 and 1998. Teaching and learning materials, and textbooks
are often only available when financed by external donors or parents. Maintenance of facilities has not
-9-



been budgeted for throughout the 1990s. The MOE Planning Department and several Project school
directors considered it a great victory that the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has finally agreed to add a
budget line for maintenance in the year 2000 budget of MOE. Indeed, one can consider this is a success,
despite the fact that the expected level of funding for maintenance will be highly insufficient to cover the
identified needs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project benefited from the strong leadership and commitment of the MOE to make it a success.
The decision, at the project design stage, to assign the responsibility for implementing the Project to an
existing institution of the MOE (GEPP), instead of creating a new parallel structure, was sensible. The
Project was the main vehicle of MOE's strategy to address the inefficiencies in the sector. The project
team clearly manifested ownership of the implementation process. The high quality of Angolan project
staff played a crucial role in MOE's ability to address challenges, despite the political, military and
economic instabilities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was implemented between December 1992 and September 1999, including two
extensions periods of 12 months. It disbursed 98 percent of credit funds and the Government provided
counterpart funds as promised. However, counterpart funding has been a problem for the Project. MOE's
pressure on the Ministry of Finance to make the counterpart funds available in a timely manner were
successful. The funds were in most cases made available on time. The problem was that the funds were
deposited in local currency equivalents (of US$ 250,000 each four months). These Kwanza deposits lost
value when the local currency depreciated rapidly against the dollar. In actual dollar terms the project team
therefore saw its local budget reduced from US$5.1 million to US$1.8 million. The expenditure categories
mostly affected by these reductions were civil works (US$ 0.58 million), furniture (US$ 1.6 million) and
local training (US$0.87 million).
Disbursements were delayed relative to what was planned, and there were variations between
planned and actual disbursements for each component. Actual disbursements for the demonstration model
were US$3.6 million (23.7 percent) lower than planned disbursements, US$2.6 million (47.7 percent)
higher for the capacity building component, US$0.8 million (23.5 percent) lower for the higher education
component, and US$1.4 million (51.8 percent) higher for operating costs than originally planned. The
civil works of the demonstration model was implemented with substantial cost-savings. Through
international competitive bidding the construction price per square meter was brought down by almost a
third from the original costs projections. The Bank and the MOE project teams agreed that these cost
savings could be used for the capacity building and textbook components. The adjustment for operating
costs can largely be explained because of the extended project implementation period.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The Project was able to establish the basic conditions which could make an education reform
program in Angola sustainable. The experience gained from the development of the model and the
technical capacity established to start replicating the model form a solid foundation on which, in principle,
the new education structure can be build. Angola is a special case with regards to sustainability in that it is
a resource rich country. Under the Project, measures were developed to ensure the necessary resources for
the education reform. The law introducing the education reform has been accepted by Cabinet. The law
-1 0 -



allocating the existing energy tax for education is in place. This energy tax, in principle, charges the
international oil companies US$0.15 for each barrel of crude oil sold on the world market. Effective
adherence to these measures could ensure sufficient amounts of revenue to finance the education reform.
The sustainability of the Project depends on two basic conditions: (i) the ongoing war and (ii) the
imbalances in the macro-economic environment. The generalization of the model and the education reform
can not be financed from the available education budget and the amount of external donor support for such
an undertaking is currently not sufficient. The task ahead is enormous (the estimated cost is US$ 500
million over a ten year period) and can not be undertaken without increased budget allocations. Without
changes in the current conditions, the sustainability of the Project, seems not very likely. Allocations to the
education sector are very low and only limited funds are made available to cover non-salary expenditures,
recurrent costs and capital investment. The feasibility of generalizing the model depends typically on these
types of resource allocations.
Given the ongoing hostilities and the lack of security, it is, however, unlikely that the Government
will introduce drastic budget reallocations before the conflict with UNITA has come to an end. The
experience between 1994 and 1998 reveals that even in a situation of relative peace, the Government was
reluctant to reduce its military expenditures. Therefore, substantial increases and reallocations in the
education budget can not be expected as long as the country is at war. The cessation of hostilities will
enable the Government to reduce military expenditures and increase its allocation to the education sector.
The Government will also have to address the imbalances in the macro-economic environment. Budget
deficits will have to be reduced and fiscal reform introduced to prioritize allocations of public resources.
This will enable the Government to effectively use the existing energy tax for the introduction of new
education reforms.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
MOE's overall plan is to develop an integrated sector program that will follow the reference model
developed under the Project. The sector program will aim at generalizing the new education structure and
curricula across the country. MOE has elaborated a first draft of an education sector policy framework
document and master plan as a first step towards the development of an integrated sector program.
Follow-up work is underway to: (i) refine and seek consensus on the policy framework; (ii) develop a
coherent overall investment program including all sub-sectors of the system; and (iii) work out the recurrent
cost implications of the program.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The quality at entry of the Project was satisfactory. In "post-conflict" Angola, the dual strategy to
develop a demonstration model, while at the same time strengthening the capacity to replicate the lessons
learned from implementing the model made sense. The design of the project was technically and
institutionally sound, and at the time it seemed likely that the Project as designed could be implemented
efficiently. In hindsight, the identification of one single risk - relating to weak management capacity - was
somewhat naYve. Given the three decades of civil strive that preceded the appraisal of the Project, the lack
of political and military stability should have been factored in as a risk.
7.2 Supervision:
- 11 -



The Project had regular supervision. The Bank supervision missions collaborated effectively with
the project management team on the Angolan side to facilitate implementation and to resolve issues. The
Bank missions were flexible in adjusting project resources to achieve the objectives. Implementation delays
were mainly due to hostilities and the chronic shortage of resources they caused. Initial credit closing,
which was set for September 30, 1997, had to be postponed twice to September 30, 1999.
The Project benefited from the continuity of the Project teams, on both the MOE and the Bank
side. The teams that designed the Project largely remained intact through most of the implementation
period. Consequently the implementation of the Project did not suffer much from institutional changes and
turnover in project and country management. The dialogue between the two parties remained productive
and flexible enough to address arising challenges. Problems in project implementation and management
were adequately addressed.
In June '96, the Bank team changed the rating of the Development Objective from satisfactory (S)
to unsatisfactory (U). The project as originally designed could still lead to the achievement of its intended
objectives but was downgraded along with the other projects in the portfolio to reflect the general risk to the
sustainability of any project due to the increased macro-economic instability. At the same time all projects
components were being implemented satisfactorily and disbursements were in fact picking up. The U
rating lasted until June '98. In this two year period, disbursement accelerated from 30% in June '96 to
75% in June '98, and the remainder of the Credit was actually committed. In June '98, the Angola Country
Team decided that notwithstanding the difficult country situation, some projects, including this one, had
been and continued to achieve most of their development objectives and the rating was accordingly
upgraded. It was thought that sustainability of the education Project was likely given the increases in
education budgets and the strong statements by the new parliament in favor of education. The escalation of
the hostilities in the remainder of 1998/99 cast once more doubts on the sustainability of Project
achievements. However, given the commitment of the education authorities, the Project as designed could
still lead to the attainment of its development objectives. Moreover, there are signs of greater commitment
to reforms than have existed to date, while great advances against UNITA have led to cautious optimism on
the evolution of the political and security situation.
The implementation of the Project could have benefited from a more elaborate monitoring and
evaluation system. The design did include a set of performance indicators, however, the Project team did
not explicitly use a monitoring and evaluation system as a management tool for the Project. Progress in
implementation was not always accurately documented. Project effectiveness could have improved by
establishing mechanisms and procedures to assess the performance of the different components and the
services provided under the Project. Better information on relative costs differences and the overall cost
structure of for instance the infrastructure component could have had considerable implications in terms of
operational efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the civil works activities. A more elaborate monitoring and
evaluation system could also have facilitated a more thorough assessment of the impact of the Project
activities towards the achievement of the overarching Project goals.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
- 12 -



The Borrower played an appropriate role in identifying Project objectives. The Angolan Project
team ensured that the Project was well embedded in Angola's overall strategy for reconstruction and that
the Project fitted squarely in MOE's strategy to address the tremendous inefficiencies and challenges of the
education sector. During Project preparation, MOE strongly advocated to assign the responsibility for
Project implementation to its Planning Department (GEPP) as against a parallel Project Implementation
Unit structure. Fully aware of its skill shortages in many areas, the MOE also insisted on including
strategies into the Project that would strengthen capacities in GEPP and the rest of the Ministry. In
identifying and selecting the priorities for the demonstration model the MOE helped ensuring that the inputs
chosen would address the quality issues identified. Throughout the preparation process the Borrower
showed vision and leadership that helped to ensure that the Project as designed could be imnplemented
efficiently.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
A diverse range of project components has been largely implemented and Project funds have been
disbursed. Throughout the implementation period, the Angolan Project team has been very committed to
effective implementation and results on the ground, despite the very difficult country circumstances. In the
early years, concerted efforts were made to become acquainted with Bank procedures and guidelines.
When the hostilities in March'93 thwarted the first Bank supervision mission, the MOE Project team came
to the Bank in Washington to discuss procurement and disbursement issues. Throughout the Project,
implementation was handled in an accountable and transparent manner. The strictness in terms of
procurement can be exemplified through the implementation of the textbook component. Where at the same
time, with the same firm, the procurement and distribution of textbooks had created a big scandal in
Mozambique, the MOE team was able to facilitate this process in a very effective and efficient manner.
The strong sense of ownership and the high caliber of Angolan Project staff made a difference even when
conditions were highly inimical to development.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not Applicable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The implementation experience of the Education Project has taught the Government and the Bank
several key lessons:
*  To sustain a basic level of quality of the education system, the Government must assure that a
minimum allocation for non-salary expenditures is made available to education institutions.
*   To avoid that a large part of the civil service seeks additional income opportunities and engages in
dysfunctional behavior, the Government negotiated a policy with the teacher's unions that incentives
need to be sufficient to attract and retain qualified staff. This policy needs to be put in practice.
* Implementation benefited from the Government's decision to charge the department of planning of the
Ministry of Education with the responsibility to implement the project.
- 13 -



*   Highly motivated teams can make a difference even when conditions are highly inimical to
development.
* The role of INIDE in producing learning materials for all levels of the reformed structure should be
revisited. It would be more efficient to use teams of experienced teachers employed in the system
equipped with materials developed elsewhere for adaptation.
* In Angola's post-conflict environment, with limited institutional capacity, the choice to opt for a
two-pronged strategy to develop a demonstration model targeting quality improvement and increased
access, while at the same time strengthening the capacity to replicate the lessons learned from
implementing the model, made sense.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTA TION COMPLETION REPORT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
BROAD OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
The overall objective of the project is to support the Government in strengthening the Ministry of Education
and preparing an Education Reform through:
* Development of a Demonstration Model for education and teacher training, and creation of a new
education model and structure.
* Expansion and improvement of the Government's administrative capacity in the education sector.
* Development of a strategy designed to gradually rehabilitate and to expand the sector as a whole, and
to prepare future investments in the sector.
Four components were created in order to implement these objectives.
COMPONENTS - SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
The four project components had the following specific objectives:
Demonstration Model (Component A) To develop a Demonstration Model for Education that
encompassed actions to strengthen INIDE's technical capacity, training abroad for INIDE technicians,
construction, equipping and furniture for a teacher training institute in Luanda, procurement of textbooks,
constructiQn, rehabilitation and equipping of primary and secondary schools, and logistical and
administrative support.
- 14 -



Results       Generally speaking, all the objectives set for this component were met in full. Four 1NIDE
technicians were trained in Portugal and Brazil in the areas of Curriculum Development and the Design and
Procurement of Textbooks, while a fifth was trained in the area of Education Planning.
With TA (Technical Assistance) support, 68% of the work on teaching reform has been completed. So far,
the following elements have been prepared: 42 primary education programs; 2 study plans, one for primary
and one for the first cycle of secondary school; 23 primary education manuals; 34 pro-grams for the first
cycle of secondary school; 15 manuals for the first cycle of secondary school; 35 programs for the second
cycle of secondary school; 22 training programs for primary school teachers; 71 training programs for
secondary school teachers; study plans for the training of primary school teachers, and an evaluation
system for students and for the education system.
INIDE expects the work to be completed by March 2000. The Ministry has scheduled the start of
implementation of the new model and structure of the education system for 2001, beginning with primary
education.
7 primary and 6 secondary schools and one teacher training institute have been built, rehabilitated,
equipped and furnished in keeping with the new education model and structure, and iNIDE has been given
logistical and administrative support.
1,225,000 textbooks have been purchased and distributed to the students, together with 7,520,000 items of
supplies (such as pencils, erasers, pencil sharpeners, ballpoints, and exercise books).
Impact This component has had a substantial impact on the education process because it enabled the
Ministry to design and define model primary and secondary schools and to define standard equipment and
furniture for the schools. This, in turn made it possible for the Ministry, using its own resources, to build
and equip an additional 855 classrooms -568 primary and 287 secondary. Certain standard operating
criteria were introduced into the Project schools as well as into these schools, including selection of the
principal and teachers, reduction in the student-teacher ratio to 40:1 instead of 70: 1, and selection of
younger pupils with good school attendance records.
These criteria, combined with the conditions in the newly equipped schools, complete with furniture and
teaching aids, made it possible to improve the quality of teaching and to raise attendance rates, which
suggests to us that this is the path to follow in education reform.
Institutional Strengthening (Component B)    The objective of this component is to strengthen the
Ministry's capacities in terms of administering education. It provided for: the construction, furnishing and
equipping of an Administrative Training Center; strengthening of the capacity to define and organize
training; in-country and external training of technicians; strengthening of the Studies and Planning Office;
training abroad of planning technicians; strengthening of budget management in the Ministry, in-country
and external training of budget technicians and improvement in the budget department's capacity to gather
and process data; strengthening of the Ministry's human resources management; in-country and external
training for technicians in the human resources department; strengthening of the capacity of the Studies and
Planning Office in the area of construction, maintenance, and management of school facilities and
equipment, including project implementation.
Results       The Training Center was built, equipped and furnished, while the technicians expected to
be needed to operate it were trained. In addition to this (off-project), an additional 22 inspectors were
trained at the national level. All the training actions, whether in-country or abroad, were carried out for the
- 15 -



areas of planning, budgeting, human resources, and physical and material management for a total of 304
technicians, of whom 83 were trained abroad and 221 locally, these in turn included 39 in the area of
planning and information management, 23 in the area of budget management, 83 in the area of human
resources, 60 administrative workers, 10 in the area of school management, 20 school principals for the
project schools, 2 in the areas of project management and administrative organization, 57 senior teachers in
the area of teacher training, and 10 in the area of school mapping.
This training was given to technicians from the Ministry and the provincial directorates. Computers were
purchased, and logistical and administrative support was extended to these directorates and services.
Impact        The planned actions were carried out in their entirety and had a substantial impact at the
central level and the provincial directorates since it changed for the better both the quality and the
performance of the services. It was possible to computerize the Ministrys payroll and asset management,
while the technical capacity for implementation in the provinces was upgraded. A data bank was set up for
all teachers in the education system. There is now information about the technical capacity and the human
resources needed to implement and manage education reform and to install a new education model and
structure. This will help guaranteeing the sustainability of the project and the education reform process.
The level of administrative, financial, human resource, school and pedagogical management will allow the
reform and the new education model to be launched in 2001.
Higher Education (Component C)      The specific objectives of this component are to strengthen the
technical capacity (institutional strengthening) of the Office of Rector of Agostinho Neto University
(U.A.N.) and the Faculty of Economics, and the activities covered by this component are: to strengthen
U.A.N.'s data-base for analyzing policy measures and decision-making; and in-country and external
training for U.A.N. technicians.
Technical assistance was provided to the Office of Rector of U.A.N., which consisted in preparing a
diagnosis of the administrative and technical status of the services, so as to rationalize the information
process, and in connecting the faculties in order to facilitate decision-making. During the technical
assistance process, sector studies were carried out for the following areas: Medicine, Law, Economics,
Architecture, Agrarian Sciences, and (on-the-job) training. 5 technicians from the Rector's Office were
trained in human resource management, education planning, financial management, academic management,
and university relations, and 3 technicians from the Engineering and Agrarian Sciences faculties were
trained in library management. In addition, an international forum was held on Higher Education in
Angola.
Technical assistance was also provided to the Economics Faculty by 6 visiting professors who gave
lectures in: Introduction to Economics, Econometrics, Accounting, and Finances. Sixteen professors from
the Faculty of Economics received PhD level training abroad in: Accounting, Financial Management, Legal
Sciences, and Econometrics; 2 professors attended scientific refresher courses; courses in library
management were held, and 7 administrative technicians were trained in the areas of Public Accounting,
Information Science Applied to Management, Statistics, Education Rating, and Teaching Assessments.
Local training programs were held for 30 professors from the Economics Faculty. Books, reference works,
furniture, equipment, teaching materials, and vehicles were purchased for the Office of the Rector of
U.A.N. and the Economics Faculty, as planned.
Impact A core group of postgraduate professors with advanced academic degrees received regular and
specialized training, which will make it possible to improve quality in the Economics Faculty and to award
- 16 -



Masters and Doctorate degrees in Angola; the organization of the Office of Rector was improved; a core
group of professors and technicians was trained for the Economics Faculty, the U.A.N. Rector's Office and
other faculties; and sector studies were carried out for the areas of Medicine, Law, Mathematics,
Economics, Architecture, and Agrarian Sciences, which will allow the Government to take informed
decisions concerning the on-going process of restructuring and reformulating Higher Education in Angola.
Studies and Preparation for Future Investments (Component D) - The specific objective of this
component is to prepare strategies, notably for the rehabilitation and gradual expansion of the education
system and future investments. The activities in this component are: (i) analysis of the organizational and
functional structure of the Ministry and drafting of recommendations to enhance its efficiency; (ii) analysis
of Higher Education and development of the program strategy and chief operational policy measures; (iii)
assessment of the functions and potential contribution of the private sector in the development of education;
(iv) identification of the institutional mechanisms and financing for expansion; (v) study of the costs and
financing of the education sector; (vi) study of teacher training needs; (vii) preparation of a program for the
reorganization of the INEs in line with the new structure; and (viii) development of an investment program
to be submitted to donors.
Results      With the support of technical assistance firms, a number of diagnostic studies were carried
out on the education system and on the Ministry's organization and management system. Studies were
prepared in the following areas: Education Costs and Financing; Expansion of Private Education in
Angola; Teacher Training and Reorganization of the INEs; Model School for Technical Education in the
provinces of Luanda and Cabinda; Planning and Statistics; Human Resources Management; Budget
Administration and Management; Management of Physical and Material Resources; Charter; and
Administrative and Budgetary Organization of the Training Center.
impact       These studies afforded the Ministry an up-to-date and in-depth picture of the problems of
the education system, its organization and management. This will pave the way for the preparation of
suitable strategies and decision-making for the process of Education System Reform and development of a
New Model and structure of education including the organizational, administrative or financial aspects.
The country's capacity to pursue education reform and its future sustainability are in place.
Project Achievements - The overall results achieved by the Project include:
*  the strengthening of the Ministry of Education's technical capacity in managing the education system;
and the analysis, coordination, control, and planning of education needs;
* the improvement in the quality of management of the teaching institutions, including Higher Education;
*   the higher quality of basic education at the primary and secondary level;
*   the increase of school age children going to school;
*   the increase in the physical and material assets of the Ministry of Education;
*   a vision of how primary and secondary education should adapt to macroeconomic reforms and to the
new kind of modern society it is planned to establish in Angola;
*   the fight against illiteracy and the lack of technical staff in the area of education.
- 17 -



We believe the results achieved by the Project can be considered good. It is noted that, even though the
primary objective, which was to develop a new education model and structure, was about 75% to 80%
achieved, the intermediate objectives were fully attained.
This situation is explained by the fact that an original plan for the Project defined the concept of and a plan
for functional linkages between the Project components. This plan was to have determined the priorities
and inter-dependencies in the execution of the components. The plan was thus that individual, albeit
separate, components would be executed, but would have a convergent and cumulative impact. The scope
of the objectives for each individual activity and each component would thus enable the overall objectives
to be achieved.
However, the plan for functional linkages between project components, and the order of priorities during
execution, was not followed. The contract governing the project (Credit Agreement), in assuming and
taking on the formal structure of legal agreements, treated the overall and individual objectives of the
Project as distinct and separate elements. It fails to protect or take into account the concept or the plan for
functional dependencies among these objectives.
The circumstances and contingencies surrounding execution of the Project components, in particular the
social and economic conditions prevailing in Angola, isolated the execution of the actions and components
from one another in time.
Since it was confined to the province of Luanda - a gathering place for thousands of people displaced from
the areas of armed conflict, and in particular thousands upon thousands of children of school-going age -
the Project was to some degree penalized in terms of impact it might have had if it could have been
extended to more of the countrys provinces.
Impact - The Project had a substantial positive impact since. Through implementation of the actions
planned for the different components, the Ministry gained a more up-to-date and informed insight into the
current situation of the education system and its problems, while developing and acquiring a technical
capacity, notably in human resources, that will lay the foundation for implementing the reform and ensuring
its sustainability.
Through the project the Ministry was able to define a model type of primary and secondary school together
with the model kind of equipment and furniture for these schools, which allowed the Government, using its
own resources, to build and equip an additional 855 classrooms, of which 568 were for primary and 287
for secondary education. The task of Curriculum Reform, Programs, Textbooks, Study Plans, and
Evaluation System was 68% completed, and all the planned schools were built and equipped, which means
that the primary objective (demonstration of a new education model and structure) was achieved. INIDE
expects the work to be completed in March 2000, and the Government plans to start implementing the new
model in 2001.
Standard quality criteria were also introduced into the Project schools, for example: selection of the best
qualified principal and teachers; reduction in the student/teacher ratio from 70:1 to 40:1; two school
operating shifts per day instead of three; adequate equipment, furniture and teaching material, which made
it possible to improve the quality of instruction, raise attendance rates, and lower repeater rates. This
suggests to us that this is the path to follow in the process of education reform and expansion.
Through the training carried out abroad and in Angola, and the studies conducted in the different areas, the
Ministry has developed the necessary technical capacity to implement the reform and develop a new
- 18 -



education model and structure and ensure its sustainability, it has improved the efficiency of services and,
through the studies conducted, it has now assembled the know-how and instruments to prepare a strategy
and take decisions with respect to reform of the education system and development of a new education
model and structure in all its aspects: pedagogical, administrative, financial and organizational.
EXECUTINGUNITOFTHEFIRSTEDUCATIONPROJECTINLUANDA, 28JANUARY,2000.-
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Setting up a demonstration model for  New primary and secondary education  Satisfactory.
education through developing new cunicula  curricula have been developed and currently
and piloting a new education structure,  under experimentabon.
improving the quality of inputs and the  Over 105% of the project's civil works
physical conditions of teaching by building   program for the construction and
and/or rehabilitating 13 model primary and   rehabilitation of primary and secondary
secondary schools, a prototype teacher  schools, has been completed.
training institute and a center for the training The education reform, policy framework and
of educational administrators        sectoral strategy development processes are
well underway. MED's overall plan is to
develop an integrated sector program (SIP)
that will follow the implementation and
evaluation of the reference model developed
under the ongoing project. The SIP will aim
at generalizing the new education structure
and curricula across the country. The MED
has elaborated a first draft of an education
sector policy framework document and
master plan as a first step towards the
development of an integrated sector
program. Taking into account the results of
the ongoing pilot operation and the reform
effort, further work would need to be done to
refine and seek consensus on the policy
framework, develop a coherent overall
investment program including all subsectors
of the system and work out the recurrent cost
implications of the program. In developing
the integrated sector program, a lot of
consultation with various stakeholders,
including all relevant donors, will be useful.
The results of the pre-investment studies
completed under the ongoing project and the
education sector note aimed at synthesizing
these results, will all contribute to these
overall efforts.
Provision of teaching and leaming materials  Over one million textbooks have been  Highly Satisfactory.
to schools                           purchased and distributed, contributing to
improvements in the quality of education. An
elaborate textbook distribution program,
enlisting the support of NGOs, church
groups, some UN agencies involved in the
distribution of humanitarian aid, FAS and the
two para-public companies (EDIMEL and
EMATEB) traditionally in charge of the
distribution of textbooks, was put in place to
ensure that the textbooks actually get to
schools and are effectively used
Strengthening the Ministry of Education's   Over 100% of staff training under the  Satisfactory.
overall management capacity          project's training program has been
completed, enhancing analytical, technical
and managerial capacities within the Ministry,
the Provincial Delegation in Luanda, The
University (including several professors in
the Faculty of Economics)
- 20 -



Improving the quality of economics training at A new prototype teacher training college and Satisfactory.
the tertiary level and the University's  a center for the training of educational
Management information system        administrators (including inspectors and
primary education advisors) have just been
completed in Maianga; a program for training
of trainers and study tours have also been
completed
Undertaking studies and preparing a strategy All project-financed studies have been  Satisfactory.
for the overall rehabilitation, revitalization and completed, these include studies on higher
progressive expansion of the education  education, teacher training, private
system                               education, and the costs and financing of
education; the first draft of an education
sector note has been elaborated. A national
forum on higher education took place in
November 1998 to discuss the findings of
the higher education study.
Output Indicators:
Not Available.
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Com onent (in US$ million uivalent)
Establishment of demonstration model                    15.20          11.60         76.3
Institutional and capacity building                      5.50           8.10        147.7
Terciary level activities (MIS and FAC)                  3.40           2.60         76.5
Studies and preparation of future investments           0.40            0.40          1 0o
Project management                                      2.70            4.10        151.8
Total Baseline Cost                                    27.20           26.80
Physical Contingencies                                                              98.5
Total Project Costs                27.20          26.80
Total Financing Required                27.20           26.80
Project Costs b Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent
1. Works                     12.50         0.60          0.00         0.00          13.10
(11.30)      (0.60)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (I11.90)
2. Goods                     6.10          0.20                                     6.30
(4.50)       (0.20)          0            0           (4.70)
3. Services                                              0.90                       0.90
Architectural design,          0            0           (0.90)         0           (0.90)
engineering and
supervision              ___
4. Miscellaneous                           0.00          4.70                       4.70
Consultancies                  0           (0.00)       (4.70)         0           (4.70)
Technical Assistance
Training
6. Miscellaneous                                         4.30                       4.30
Local Training                 0            0           (3.40)         0           (3.40)
6. Miscellaneous                                         1.90                       1.90
Incremental operating          0            0           (1.50)         0           (1.50)
costs
Total                      18.60         0.80         11.80         0.00         31.20
(15.80)      (0.80)        (10.50)       (0.00)       (27.10)
- All NCB of which US$0.39 million under PPF (new constructions US$0.35; furniture and equipment
US$0.04)
- Services of which US$0.08 under PPF
- Technical Assistance of which US$0.17 under PPF
- The local training (US$0.5) would be undertaken by the MOE with technical assistance support. Training
abroad (US$2.9) would be awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants
- 22 -



- Incremental Operating costs of which US$0.03 under PPF. About US$1.3 for operating expenses and
about US$0.2 for salaries of local contractual staff for GEPP/DCE
Proiect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        10.42          0.85           0.00          0.00           11.27
(9.37)         (0.76)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (10.13)
2. Goods                        6.94           0.00           0.00          0.00           6.94
(6.94)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.94)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           0.91          0.00           0.91
Architectural design,          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.91)        (0.00)          (0.9 1)
engineering and
supervision
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           6.39          0.00           6.39
Consultancies                  (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.39)        (0.0)         (6.39)
Technical Assistance
Training
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.22          0.00           0.22
Local Training                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.09)        (0.00)         (0.09)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           2.79          0.00           2.79
Incremental operating          (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.23)        (0.00)         (2.23)
costs
Total                        17.36          0.85          10.31          0.00           28.52
(16.31)        (0.76)         (9.62)        (0.00)         (26.69)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
XIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equi alent)
Component              Ap raisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Demonstration Model for    11.90   3.30                11.57      0.82              97.2   24.8   0.0
Education
Education Sector         4.30      1.20                9.93      0.35               230.9  29.2   0.0
Management
Higher Education         3.20      0.20                2.56       0.10              80.0   50.0   0.0
Pre-investment Studies   0.40      0.00                0.40      0.00               100.0   0.0    0.0
Project Management       2.40      0.30                2.23       0.56              92.9  186.7   0.0
Values scaled by 1000000.0
-23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
AppraisaltNegotiation
November/Decem          7   - Djamalddine Rouag, Team
ber 1991                     Leader
(Appraisal)                  - Peter Ngomba, Education
Planner and Economist
- Sakhevar Diop, Textbooks
Specialist
- T. Malan, Consultant,
Higher Education Specialist
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Education Management
Specialist
- R. Sanjurjo, Consultant,
Architect
- L. Vandevelde, Consultant,
Educator
Supervision
July 1992               1  - Peter Ngomba, Education            HS                HS
Planner and Economist
July 1993               2  - Abdelwahed Zhiri, Education        S                 S
Specialist
- Peter Ngomba, Education
Planner and Economist
From November 19        1  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager,        S                 S
to November 26,             Education Planner and
1993                        Economist
- 25 -



From April 27 to        5  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                S
May 13, 1994                - Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
- Rodolfo Sanjurjo, Consultant,
Architect
- Leopold Ahounou, Consultant,
Economist
- Uwe Desch, Consultant,
Training Specialist
From September 24       1  - Rodolfo Sanjurjo, Consultant,      S                S
to September 29,            Architect
1994
From October 27 to      4  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                S
November 11, 1994           - Sakhevar Diop, Textbook
Specialist
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
- George Berdah, Consultant,
Vocational Training and
Procurement Specialist
From January 5 to       I  - Rodolfo Sanjurjo, Consultant,      S                S
January 10, 1995            Architect
From June 29 to         2  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                S
July 10, 1995               - Rodolfo Sanjurjo, Consultant,
Architect
From January 29 to      4  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                S
February 16, 1996           - Rodolfo Sanjurjo, Consultant,
Architect
- Lucy Keough, Operations
Officer
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
From February 23        1  - Uche Mbanefo, Financial            S                S
to March 6, 1996            Specialist
From June 24 to         3  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                U
July 5, 1996                - Sakhevar Diop, Textbook
Specialist
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
-26-



From October 28 to       3  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                 U
November 17, 1996           - Rodolfo Sanjurjo, Consultant,
Architect
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
From March 10 to         3  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                 U
March 14, 1997              - Sakhevar Diop, Textbook
Specialist
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
From June 14 to          6  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                 U
July 7, 1997                - Sakhevar Diop, Textbook
Specialist
- Barbara Kakfa, Country
Director
- Wim Alberts, Economist
- Ms. Ramos, Resident Mission
Economist
- Luiza Almeida, Resident
Mission NGO Coordinator
From January 28 to       4  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                 U
February 15, 1998           - Sakhevar Diop, Textbook
Specialist
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
- Luiza Almeida, Resident
Mission NGO Coordinator
From October 7 to        2  - Sakhevar Diop, Textbook            S                 S
October 16, 1998            Specialist
- Luiza Almeida, Resident
Mission NGO Coordinator
From October 20 to      *5  - Peter Ngomba, Task Manager         S                  S
November 11, 1998           - Sakhevar Diop, Textbook
Specialist
- Jean Hache, Consultant,
Institutional Development and
Higher Education Specialist
- Luiza Almeida, Resident
Mission NGO Coordinator
- Abdelwahed Zhiri, Consultant,
Education Specialist
-27 -



ICR
From January 22         4   - Joseph Bredie, Team
to January 29,               Leader
2000                         - Wim Alberts, Social
Protection Specialist
- Jerome Chevallier,
Consultant
- Anne Anglio, Team
Assistant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               73.5                       197.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                    57.5                       198.5
Supervision                              98.7                       362.3
ICR                                      9.49                        39.7
Total                                   239.2                       797.7
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OSector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
M Physical                                OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
OZEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Gender                            O H OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development
0 Public sector management
0 Other (Please specify)
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
N Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS  O u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
z Preparation                                       OHS ISS  O U   O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
D Implementation agency performance                 OHS Os  OU  O HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report No. 1033 8-ANG, Dated May 4, 1992.
Development Credit Agreement, Credit No. 2375-ANG, Dated June 12, 1992.
Aide-Memoires and Project Status Reports from November 1993 to June 1999.
Statistical Data from Planning Department, Ministry of Education - Luanda, Angola.
Plan Cadre National de Reconstruction du Systeme Educatif 1995-2005, Projet, Ministry of Education -
Angola, May 1995.
- 31 -



Annex 8
RELATORIO FINAL DE IMPLEMENTA(AO
(SUCINTO)
PRIMEIRO PROJECTO EDUCACAO
(Credito 2375-ANG)
(10 de Dezembro de 1999)
Projectos Educacao
Regiao de Africa
32



Annex 8
TAXAS DE CAMBIO
Unidade correntes = Kwanzas (KZ)
US$ = 550 Kwanzas (a data do Appraisal report)
US$ = 5,5 Kwanzas (a data do ICR, Dezembro de 1999)
ANO FISCAL DO BENEFICIARIO
Ano de Calendario
ANO ESCOLAR DE CALENDARIO
MARCO - DEZEMBRO
ABREVIACOES E ACRONIMOS
AFDB            Banco Africano de Desenvolvimento
ANU             Universidade Agostinho Neto
BCT             Centro de Forma,cao Basica
DCE             Divisao de Construcao e Equipamento
EC              Comunidade Europeia
EDIMEL          Empresa Regional de Aquisi,co e Distribui,cao Equipamento e Material
Didactico Escolar de Luanda
EMATEB          Empresa de Material Tecnico
EMT             Ensino Medio Tecnico
GEP             Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento
HIES            Instituto Superior de Ciencias da Educa,co
1NIDE           Instituto Nacional de Investiga,cao e Desenvolvimento da Educa,cao
MOE             Miniterio da Educa,ao
NCL             Centro Nacional de Literatura
NIE             Instituto Nacional de Educa,cao
RSEE            Reformulac,o do Sistema de Educa9co e Ensino
PCC             Comissao de Coordena,co do Projecto
PIU             Unidade de Implementa,cao do Projecto
TA              Assistencia Tecnica
UNDP            Programa de Desenvolvimento das Na,6es Unidas
UNESCO          Organizacao Cientifica e Cultural das Na,ces Unidas
VTC             Centro de Forma,cao Tecnica e Profissional
Vice Presidente                                         Callisto Madavo
Director Geografico                                     Barbara Kafka
Gestor Tecnico                                         Arvil Van Adams
Gestor do Projecto                                     Peter N'Gomba
33



Annex 8
RELATORIO FINAL DE IMPLEMENTA(AO
ANGOLA
PRIMEIRO PROJECTO EDUCAVAO
(Credito 2375-ANG)
INDICE
PREFACIO
AVALIACAO SUMARIA
Antecedentes
Objectivo geral do Projecto
Implementa,ao, resultados e sustentabilidade do Projecto
Experiencia dos resultados alcan,ados pelo Projecto
PRIMEIRA PARTE          NIVEL DE IMPLEMENTAC,AO DO PROJECTO
Contexto
Objectivos especificos do projecto
Implementagao do Projecto
Resultados alcan9,ados pelo Projecto
Sustentabilidade do Projecto
Desempenho do Banco
Desempenho do Beneficiario
Futuras opera,ces na area da Educa,cao
Principais experiencia do Projecto
Quadros
Principais acontecimentos em Angola 1991 - 1999
Datas principais do Projecto
SEGUNDA PARTE           ANEXOS ESTATISTICOS
Quadro 1:   Sumario de desempenho
Quadro 2:   Dados do Projecto
Quadro 3:   Calendariza,co do projecto
Quadro 4:   Desembolsos: previsto e actual
Quadro 5:   Principais indicadores de implementa,co do projecto
Quadro 6:   Principais indicadores das opera,oes
Quadro 7:   Estudos incluidos no Projecto
Quadro 8A: Custos do projecto
Quadro 8B:  Financiamento do projecto
Quadro 9:    Custos econ6micos e beneficios
Quadro 10:   Estatuto dos acordos legais
Quadro 11:   Conformidade com o Manual de procedimentos
Quadro 12:   Recursos do Banco: Staff
Quadro 13:   Recursos para as miss6es do banco
APENDICES:
A. MISSOES DO BANCO: AIDE MEMOIRE
B. PLANOS OPERACIONAIS DO BENEFICIARIO
C. MATRIZ DOS OUTUPS
34



Annex 8
RELATORIO FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACAO
ANGOLA
PRIMEIRO PROJECTO EDUCACAO
(Credito 2375-ANG)
PREFACIO
O documento que aqui se apresenta insere-se no Relat6rio Final de Implementacao do
Primeiro Projecto Educa,ao em Angola, Credito IDA 2375-ANG, no montante de SDR
19,9 milh6es ( equivalente a Usd 27,1 milhoes ) , aprovado em 12 de Julho de 1992, tendo
entrado efectivamente em vigor em Dezembro de 1992.
O credito encerra em 31 de Dezembro de 1999, ap6s ter beneficiado de dois
prolongamentos, num total de 24 meses. 0 desembolso final tera lugar durante o mes de
Janeiro de 2000. 0 saldo final sera apurado ap6s a realizacao do ultimo desembolso.
Este relat6rio foi preparado pela Administradora do projecto, Sra Natalia Ribeiro sob a
Direc9ao do Director do Projecto, Dr. Pinda Simao, de acordo com as orientac6es
recebidas do Task Manager do projecto.
35



Annex 8
RELATORIO FINAL DE IMPLEMENTA(AO
ANGOLA
PRIMEIRO PROJECTO EDUCACAO
(Credito 2375-ANG)
A. AVALIACAO SUMARIA
Antecedentes
1. 0 Sistema Educativo em Angola assistiu no periodo de 1975 a 1992 a um progressivo
declinio e/ou estagnac,ao das capacidades de satisfac,co dos seus objectivos,
originando uma baixa "performance", baixo nivel de frequ8ncia, matricula, literacia e
qualifica,co, consequ8ncia negativa do processo de descoloniza,cao, materializada na
saida de quadros e de recursos da administra,ao puiblica e a nivel empresarial, devido
tambem aos conflitos armados e as desordens civicas que t8m vindo a provocar a
migra,co de milhoes de refugiados e deslocados, criando condi,ces de vida
intoleraveis para as popula,ces.
2. Neste periodo as actividades do Ministerio da Educa,ao foram progressivamente
reduzidas ao  minimo  necessario  para assegurar e manter o  sistema. Os
constrangimentos, financeiros e humanos, provocaram a desactiva,ao progressiva das
componentes estrategicas de administra,ao  da educacao  (particularmente, a
planifica,cao, a gestao do pessoal, a gestao fmanceira e a gestao dos recursos fisicos e
materiais), mantendo apenas as bases minimas para assegurar o funcionamento
administrativo do pr6prio Ministerio e assegurar, no seu conjunto, o funcionamento do
sistema educativo nacional. A depend8ncia financeira e or,amental deste sector, do
Ministerio das Financas e do Planeamento, constituiu um factor complementar de
constrangimento ao desenvolvimento do sistema educativo.
3. A partir de 1985 foram  transferidas algumas compet8ncias administrativas do
Ministerio da Educa,co para as delega,ces provinciais da Educa,ao (em nurmero de
18), que sao, neste momento, os verdadeiros organismos de administra,cao e gestao do
sistema educativo angolano, garantindo, por um lado, as fun,ces essenciais do sistema
a nivel nacional, mas por outro lado, reportando directamnente ao Ministerio das
Finan,as e do Planeamento para a elabora,co, planifica,co e execu,ao dos seus
investimentos (informando posteriormente o Ministerio da Educa,ao), nao tendo
havido ate a data alterac,es neste quadro de compet8ncias.
4. Com a assinatura dos acordos de Paz de Bicesse em 1991, o pais iniciou um periodo
de reformas de reajustarnento   estrutural, nomeadamente nos seus aspectos
organizacionais, funcionais e dos recursos humanos, com a revisao da tabela salarial,
criando as condi,ces para um rapido desenvolvimento do sistema educativo. Foi no
contexto da reestrutura,ao do Ministerio da Educa,co nas suas vertentes de
planifica,ao, de gestao de recursos humanos, de gestao de recursos financeiros e gestao
de recursos fisicos e materiais, bem como a vontade politica de implementar a reforma
do sistema educativo, que teve inicio o Primeiro Projecto Educa,cao negociado com o
36



Annex 8
Govemo de Angola no periodo de transic,ao para uma economia de mercado em finais
de 1992.
5. Contudo, como e do conhecimento puiblico, o reinicio do conflito armado ap6s urn
breve periodo de Paz, provocou de novo atrasos substanciais no processo de reformas,
desviou fundos or,camentais para a defesa do pais, agravando todos os problemas
sociais, nomeadamente na Educa,cao. Este aspecto justifica os atrasos verificados na
implementa,ao do Primeiro Projecto Educa,ao e a sua limita,ao geografica a Provincia
de Luanda.
Objectivo geral do Projecto
6. 0 objectivo geral do Projecto e o de apoiar a reestrutura,ao do Ministerio da Educa,ao
e a reforma do ensino. Neste sentido o Projecto inclui quatro (4) componentes: a)
Apoio ao desenvolvimento do novo sistema de ensino; b) Apoio A reestrutura,ao do
Ministerio da Educacao; c) Apoio institucional A Reitoria da Universidade Agostinho
Neto e a Faculdade de Economia; d) Estudos nas areas de: Custos e Financiamento da
Educa,ao, Carta Escolar do Ensino Medio-Tecnico, Estatistica da Educa,cao, Estrutura
Organica do Ministerio da Educa,ao, Forma,ao de Professores e Reorganiza,ao dos
INE's , Estudos Sectoriais do Ensino Superior em Angola e Desenvolvimento do
Ensino Particular em Angola.
Implementa,co, resultados e sustentabilidade do Projecto
7. Ate A data o Projecto desembolsou SDR 18,619 milhoes, ou seja 94%. 0 projecto
beneficiou de dois prolongamentos devido As razoes e dificuldades apontadas no ponto
anterior. 0 primeiro prolongamento verificou-se de Setembro de 1997 a Setembro de
1998 e o segundo de Setembro de 1998 a Setembro de 1999. 0 segundo prolongarnento
serviu igualmente para se executar ac,oes complementares e novas ac,6es, nao
identificadas na fase de prepara,ao do projecto. Na altura do primeiro prolongamento
apenas tinha sido desembolsado cerca de 69% do total e no segundo prolongamento
cerca de 98,53%. Podemos, pois, considerar o nivel de desembolsos como satisfat6rio.
8. Em termos de resultados o projecto realizou as seguintes ac,6es: 1) constru,cio e
fornecimento de mobiliario, equipamento de escrit6rio, de laborat6rio para as
Escolas Secundirias e I.N.E. e material pedag6gico de 3 escolas primarias (aumento
da capacidade para 3.600 alunos em dois turnos), de 2 escolas secundarias (aumento da
capacidade para 3.200 alunos em dois turnos), de um centro de formac,o de quadros
da educa,ao e urn instituto normal de educa,ao para 600 alunos; 2) reabilita,ao e
fornecimento de mobiliairio, equipamento de escrit6rio, de laborat6rio e material
pedag6gico de 4 escolas primrfias (6.680 alunos em dois turnos) e de 4 escolas
secundarias (5.400 alunos em dois turnos); 3) Assistencia Tecnica ao Instituto
Nacional de Investigacao e Desenvolvimento da Educa,ao (INIDE) na area do
desenvolvimento curricular e elabora,ao de materiais pedag6gicos e avalia,ao da
aprendizagem dos alunos e do sistema educativo, apoio institucional ao Ministerio da
Educa,ao nas areas da planifica,ao, gestAo de recursos humanos, gestao financeira e
gestAo dos recursos fisicos e materiais, apoio institucional A Reitoria e Faculdade de
Economia da Universidade Agostinho Neto, instala,cao do Centro de Formacao de
37



Annex 8
Quadros da Educa,ao; 4) Estudos da Educac,o nas areas da Forma,ao de Professores
e Reorganiza,ao dos INE's, elabora,ao da Carta Escolar do Ensino Medio Tecnico,
Custos e Financiamento da Educa,co, e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Particular em
Angola; Forma,co tecnico-profissional no exterior ( 125 ) e local ( 268 ) e p6s
gradua,6es (mestrado) , no exterior (17 professores universitarios); 5) Aquisic,o de
manuais escolares para o ensino de base e livros tecnicos para a Faculdade de
Economia , Reitoria da U.A.N. (entregues nas Faculdades) e o INIDE ; 6)
Assistencia Tecnica a Unidade de Execucao do Projecto nas areas administrativa e
financeira, aquisigoes e arquitectura, que permitiu um bom andamnento dos trabalhos .
9. Com as poupan,cas realizadas pela gestAo do projecto, foramn executadas ac,6es
inicialmente nao previstas no acordo de credito, mas que as complementam  e
obtiveram o acordo do Banco Mundial, tais como as drenagens de aguas pluviais e
arranjo dos espa,os exteriores a tres escolas, a reabilitasao de uma escola
primaria (beneficiando cerca de 810 alunos em dois turnos) , aquisi,cao de manuais
escolares , num total de 1. 225. 000 exemplares e 7. 520. 070 materiais pedag6gicos
( lapis , borrachas , afia-lapis , canetas e cademos) para distribui,ao gratuita aos alunos
mais carenciados de todas as escolas das 18 provincias do pais , por forma a melhorar a
qualidade do ensino, instalacao de elevadores no Ministerio da Educa,cao,protec,ao
fisica de instalaV6es ( vivendas e unidade de gestao do projecto ), forma,ao de 22
Inspectores Nacionais de Educa,ao (no exterior).
10. De referir que no ano de 1995, o Banco decidiu financiar a 100% a categoria nr. 4 -
livros escolares e materiais pedag6gicos - que inicialmente estava previsto o seu
financiamento a 90%.
11. No que se refere a sustentabilidade do projecto, apesar da situa,Aco politico-militar
existente no pais, ele decorreu de uma forna manifestamente positiva, tendo o Govemo
criado condi,ces para a sua execu,co fisica e financeira. As escolas construidas e
reabilitadas estAo em pleno funcionamento, A excep,ao dos laborat6rios que aguardam
a reforma do ensino secundario e a forma,ao dos professores. 0 Centro de Forrna,ao
de Quadros da Educa,ao come,ou, igualmente, a funcionar, constituindo o seu grupo
de formadores os tecnicos que receberam forrna,co nas diversas areas do projecto, bem
como o INE que inicou a forma,co de professores de acordo com o Estudo realizado
pela Assistencia Tecnica relativamente ao perfil de saida do professor no armbito da
reforma do ensino. Os beneficiarios dos cursos de p6s-gradua,ao encontram-se, neste
momento, a aplicar os conhecimentos adquiridos no exterior, como professores da
Faculdade de Economia. Temos, igualmente, a considerar que o projecto, por raz6es de
seguran,a, contemplou essencialmente os municipios de Luanda, Viana e Cacuaco
(Provincia de Luanda), na constru,ao e reabilita,cao de escolas .Relativamente a
aquisi,ao de equipamento informatico , foram contempladas as Delega,ces provinciais
de Luanda, Cabinda, Benguela e Huila . Nestas provincias tambem foram realizadas
ac,ces de formagao local, nas areas de Gestao Financeira e Gestao de Recursos
Humanos.
Considerainos pertinente a extensao do Segundo Projecto Educa,ao a outras
provincias, bem como o refor,o do apoio A reforma educativa. Tambem consideramos
altamente positivo, o facto do Govemo ter aumentado a verba do OGE destinada A
Educa,ao.
38



Annex 8
Experiencia dos resultados alcancados pelo Projecto
12. No decorrer da implementacao do primeiro Projecto Educacao, podemos retirar as
seguintes experiencias:
* Pertinencia da continuidade da reforma do ensino em Angola para conclusao da
elaboracao e impressao dos manuais escolares e formacao de professores no anbito da
reforma do sistema educativo;
*  Necessidade de prepara,co previa, durante a fase de identifica,ao do Projecto ou antes
do inicio do mesmo, dos elementos envolvidos na Gestao do Projecto, sobre os
procedimentos do B.M., a fim de se evitar atrasos de execucao das acc6es no inicio dos
Projectos;
* Necessidade de aplica9,ao dos estudos realizados e das propostas aprovadas pelo
Ministerio da Educacao nas ireas da Carta Escolar do Ensino Medio Tecnico,
Forma9co de Professores e Reorganizacao dos INE's, Custos e Financiamento da
Educagdo, Apoio ao Ensino Particular em Angola, bem como os estudos sectoriais do
ensino superior;
* Aplicagdo ao nivel do Ministerio da Educacao e das Delegac6es Provinciais das
propostas estruturais e organizacionais nas areas de estatistica e planifica,co da
educacao, gestao de recursos humanos, gestao administrativa e financeira, e gestao dos
recursos fisicos e materiais da educa,ao, estimulando maior ligacao das delega,ces
provinciais ao Ministerio;
*  Pertinencia do apoio a formna,co de tecnicos em gestao escolar, gestao pedag6gica e
inspeccao escolar, alargando a capacidade institucional do Centro de Forrnaco de
Quadros da Educacao;
* Finalmente urna das experiencias que interessa referir, relativamente a este projecto, e a
actua,ao criteriosa e muita positiva do Banco Mundial, tendo criado um bom ambiente
de trabalho e de relacionamento com o Governo de Angola, nomeadamente com a
Unidade de Projecto, tendo apoiado sempre a solu,co dos problemas que iam surgindo
na implementacao do mesmo.
39



Annex 8
RELATORIO FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACAO
ANGOLA
PRIMEIRO PROJECTO EDUCACAO
(Credito 2375-ANG)
PRIMEIRA PARTE - NIVEL DE IMPLEMENTACAO DO PROJECTO
1. CONTEXTO
1. 0 sistema s6cio-politico e econ6mico de Angola no periodo a que se refere o Primeiro
Projecto Educacato encontrava-se num periodo de transicao. As reformas preconizadas
pelo Governo de Angola fixam novas prioridades, mudancas do modelo econ6mico,
reforma monetaria e cambial, reformas macro-econ6micas e da administracao publica.
Estas reformas fazem-se num momento de grandes dificulades devido ao reacender da
guerra civil e ao aumento das populac6es deslocadas para os centros urbanos, a
destruicao de numerosos centros de ensino e falta generalizada de bens alimentares nas
zonas mais afectadas pela guerra. A fim de garantir a eficacia do Projecto, teve-se em
conta as caracteristicas contextuais do pais, adaptando-se as medidas tomadas as
estruturas organizacionais e as regras e procedimentos administrativos, tendo
demonstrado capacidade de adaptacao as novas situag6es.
Os principais acontecimentos politicos em Angola, articulados com as datas de
implementacao do projecto, foram conforme se descrevem nos quadros a seguir
mencionados:
Cx.l.- Datas dos acontecimentos politicos em Angola   Cx.2.-Datas de implementa,ao do
1991 - 1999                         Projecto
Maio      1991   Acordos de Paz                   Maio      1991  Identifica,co
Setembro  1992   Elei,6es Nacionais               Maio      1992   Relet6rio de avalia,ao
Outubro   1992   Recomeco das hostilidades        Junho     1992   Assinatura do Acordo de
Novembro 1994   Protocolo de Lusaka                                Credito
Jul/Set.   1995   Negocia,es com o FMI para       Dezembro 1992  Inicio do Projecto
a monitoragem do programna      Novembro 1993   Primeira missao de Su-
econ6mico do Governo                             Pervisao depois do ini-
Nov.      1995   Negocia,6es suspensas ;o                          cio do Projecto
Programa nao foi implementado
Out.      1996   Consessao de um credito de
Emergencia
Abril    1997   Tomada de posse do Governo de     Janeiro    1995  Misso de Meio Termo
Unidade e Reconcilia,ao Nacional    Setembro  1997  Aprova,ao do primeiro
Agosto   1998   Reabertura das negociacoes com o                   Prolongamento
FMI para a monitoragem do progra-   Setembro  1997  Data inicial de termino
ma econ6mico                                     do projecto
Maio      1998   Recome,o das hostilidades        Agosto    1998  Aprova,co do segundo
Dezembro 1998   Recome,o dos combates armados                      Prolongamento
Novembro 1999   Ofensiva generalizada do Govemo e   Dezembro  1999  Encerramento do Projecto
Reposi,co da administra,ao do Esta-
do em vastas zonas do territ6rio
40



Annex 8
2. Os problemas observados e que deram lugar as diversas componentes do Projecto
forarn os seguintes:
A. Problemas da Planifica,cao
*  Pouca participa,ao do Ministerio da Educa,ao atraves do gabinete do plano na
planifica,ao or,amental e dos investimentos nas provincias;
*  Dependencia do Ministerio da Educa,ao e das Delega,ces provinciais do Ministerio do
Planearnento relativamente aos metodos e procedimentos e as decis6es importantes.
Falta de capacidade em planifica,ao e de informa,cao estatistica sobre o sistema de
educa,ao em Angola;
* No conjunto do sistema e particularmente no Ministerio da Educa,ao, a planifica,co e
urna fun,ao marginal jogando um papel reduzido no processo de elaboracao das
politicas, da tomada de decisoes e de orienta,ao do sistema;
*  Falta de pessoal qualificado para as tarefas de planifica,ao e estatistica tanto a nivel
central como provincial;
*  0 nivel do sistema de informa,ao, levantamento dos dados, a analise e difusao das
informac,oes eram muito limitadas, tanto A quantidade como a qualidade e a sua difusao
e utiliza,Ao muito reduzida. Os dados sobre os alunos e suas op,ces de estudos, sobre
os professores, administradores, as escolas e em ultima analise sobre os or9amentos
eram insuficientes;
* Uma grande mobilidade do pessoal, criando uma situa,co muito instavel;
B. Problemas dos Recursos Humanos
*  Tendo sido criado recentemente o Departamento dos Recursos Humanos, as diversas
fun,ces da responsabilidade deste departamente estavam repartidas pelas diversas
unidades do Ministerio. A gestao dos recursos humanos como fun,cao organizacional
era inexistente no ministerio e nas delega,6es provinciais;
-  Falta de pessoal qualificado para preencher os postos do departamento;
*  A falta de uma estrutura e de um processo de gestao eficaz permitindo o exercicio do
controlo adequado da afectacao ao trabalho e de avaliacao do pessoal, particularmente
do pessoal docente e administrativo.
C. Problemas da gestao orqamental
3. Departamento de Or,camento do Ministerio e uma componente da Direc,ao Geral da
Administra,cao do Ministerio. Sendo uma area vital para o sistema educativo, este
departamento funciona como um quadro de trabalho metodol6gico ditado pelo
Ministerio das Finan,as. Depois de 1980 o Ministerio das Finan,as centralizou a partir
das administra,96es provinciais, escolas aut6nomas, a universidade e outros
estabelecimentos aut6nomos, as opera,ces de planificac,ao, elaboraqao e execu,co do
Or,camento Nacional da Educa,ao, originando uma falta de perspectiva do
desenvolvimento da educacao a nivel nacional. As deficiencias existentes no quadro da
prepara,ao, execu,Ao e controlo do or,camento, privam o Ministerio da educa,ao e as
administra,6es provinciais de um meio estrategico indispensavel para a realizacao de
politicas de educacao e programa,ao das suas prioridades, actuais e futuras.
41



Annex 8
D. A gestao dos recursos fisicos e materiais
4. Inexistencia total de um or,camento de investimentos e de manuten,co no sector da
educa,ao, traduziu-se na reducao da necessidade de instalar uma unidade de gestao dos
recursos fisicos e materiais do Ministerio da Educa,ao. 0 Departamento do patrim6nio,
componente da Direccao geral de administra,cao e or,amento do ministerio e em cada
uma das delega,ces provinciais da educa,co, apenas desempenhavarn tarefas de
inventaria,cao sumrnia dos bens m6veis do Ministerio e dos centros administrativos das
delega,ces provinciais. Assim, nao existe um servi,o com capacidade de indicar o
nurmero de escolas existentes no pais, a sua localiza,cao, dimensao e estado fisico e
efectuar um diagn6stico sobre as necessidades de novas unidades escolares.
2. OBJECTIVOS ESPECIFICOS DO PROJECTO
5. Os objectivos especificos do Projecto enquadram-se no apoio ao Govemo de Angola
na correccao das deficiencias e melhoria da qualidade do ensino e garantir a eficacia
do sector da educa,cao. Neste sentido o apoio visa preparar estrategias para a
reabilita,ao, revitalizacao e expansao progressiva do sistema educativo. Assim foramn
definidas quatro areas de intervencao:
Componente A   Desenvolvimento de um Modelo Experimental do Novo Sistema de
Ensino- As ac,ces desta componente estao agrupadas nas categorias:
Constru,cao civil, mobiliario, equipamento e veiculos, Livros e Materiais
Pedag6gicos, Forma,ao no Exterior, Assistencia Tecnica.
Componente B   Refor9o das Capacidades Administrativas do Ministerio da Educa,ao-
As acc6es executadas nesta componente estao agrupadas nas Categorias:
Constru,co civil, mobiliario, equipamento e veiculos, Livros  e
Materiais Pedag6gicos, Forma,co no Exterior e Local e Assistencia
Tecnica.
Componente C   Ensino Superior - Apoio Institucional a Reitoria e Faculdade de
Economia da Universidade Agostinho Neto - Nesta componente as
ac,oes estao integradas nas categorias mobiliario, equipamento e
veiculos, Livros e Materiais Pedag6gicos, Formac,o no Exterior e
Local e Assistencia Tecnica.
Componente D   Preparar as estrategias, particularmente, para a reabilita,cao, revitalizac, o
e expansao progressiva do sistema educativo e Estudos Preparat6rios
Futuros Investimentos - Assistencia Tecnica.
42



Annex 8
3. IMPLEMENTACAO DO PROJECTO
6. Projecto foi implementado no periodo compreendido entre 8 de Dezembro de 1992 e
30 de Setembro de 1999, incluindo duas extens6es por um periodo de 12 meses cada
(24 meses). 0 total dos desembolsos totalizam ate a presente data 98,53 por cento do
total do credito, conforme indicado no quadro 8A, 2a parte, e o Governo de Angola
transferiu para o projecto a contraparte dos fundos conforme estabelecido no Acordo de
Credito. Os desembolsos foram executados conforme os planos estabelecidos, tendo
havido nos primeiros anos de execucao do projecto alguma variacao entre o
inicialmente previsto e o executado por componente e categoria. A figura 1 do ICR
Mission. Os desvios dos desembolsos devem-se essencialmente as dificuldades que
foram surgindo no dia a dia do projecto, e a causas ex6genas a sua gestao. 0 quadro
conjuntural do pais foi desfavoravel para a sua execu>cao, caracterizado,
particularmente, por uma dificil situacao s6cio-econ6mica, que provocou grande
movimentacao de populac6es, faltas de energia, de agua, de produtos de construcao,
grandes flutuacoes cambiais e altas taxas de infla,cao, provocando grandes tensoes no
desempenho profissional das empresas. Toda esta situacao originou atrasos na
execucao do projecto, nomeadamente no dominio da construcao civil. Assim ,neste
periodo, as acc6es foram realizadas na sua totalidade, nao correspondendo, no entanto,
ao desembolso de 100% dos valores orcamentados para estas acc6es , tendo permitido,
aos gestores do projecto (durante o segundo prolongamnento), com as poupancas
realizadas, a execucao de accoes nao previstas no Acordo de Credito, tais como: 1)
Obras de construcao civil - i) drenagens de aguas pluviais a Escola Primaria do
Cazenga (construida e integrada na fase II de Construcao Civil); ii) drenagens de aguas
pluviais e arranjo dos espacos exteriores a Escola Primaria e Escola SecundAria do
Kilamba Kiaxi (construidas e integradas no fase I de Construcao Civil); iii) reabilitacao
da Escola Primaria nr. 205 no Municipio da Maianga; 2) Apoio ao Ministerio da
Educacao na aquisicao de manuais escolares e materiais pedag6gicos para distribuicao
pelas 18 provincias do pais a fim de permitir aos alunos socialmente mais vulneraveis o
acesso aos manuais; 3) Reforco da Assistencia Tecnica ao INIDE no ambito do
desenvolvimento curricular, elaboracao de materiais pedag6gicos e avaliacao da
aprendizagem dos alunos e do sistema educativo na continuacao dos trabalhos da
reforma do ensino; 4) FormaVao de Formadores no exterior de 20 inspectores e 2
directores nacionais na area da inspeccao escolar e avaliacao pedag6gica, integrados na
reforma do ensino.
7. Todas as accoes previstas no Acordo de Credito IDA 2375-ANG que integravamn as 4
componentes do projecto, e agrupadas por categorias, se realizaram conforme
estabelecido a 100% ,com excepqao do INIDE ,cujo trabalho ficou realizado a 70% e a
seguir demonstrado.
Desenvolvimento de um Modelo Experimental do Novo Sistema de Ensino - Nesta
componente o total dos investimentos foram executados no decorrer do periodo de
implementacao do projecto e refletem o custo dos estudos arquitecturais e construcao
de: a ) Todas as obras de construcao civil (agrupados nas fases I, II e III )num total de
3 Escolas Primrnias e 2 Escolas Secundarias (Construidas) e 5 Escolas Primrnias e 4
Secundarias (reabilitadas).De referir que foi reabilitada mais 1 Escola Primarias (205
43



Annex 8
da Maianga) que nao estava prevista no acordo de credito. Todas estas Escolas estao
equipadas com laborat6rios num total de 20. Todas se encontram em funcionamento.
As escolas, constituidas por 12, 18 e 20 salas de aulas, com capacidade de 40 alunos
por sala, aumentararn significativamente o universos de criancas com possibilidade de
terem acesso ao ensino. Atendendo a que todas estao a funcionar com dois turnos
diarios, temos a considerar que o universo de alunos com acesso ao ensino primario e
secundario aumentou em 16 mil alunos. Outro aspecto bastante positivo foi a cria,cao
de dois modelos tipos de projecto de constru,ao de Escolas Primarias e Secundarias
que o Ministerio esta a implementar.Conforme estabelecido foi adquirido mobiliario de
escrit6rio, escolar e pedag6gico para todos os estabelecimentos de ensino que integrarn
esta componente do projecto. Foi tambem adquirido mobiliario para as residencias dos
Directores das do projecto, num  total de 14 residencias.  Foram  adquiridos
equipamentos de escrit6rio, de informatica, de laborat6rio e materiais pedag6gicos para
todos os estabelecimentos acima mencionados. Foram ainda adquiridos equipamentos
de escrit6rio e de informatica, para o INIDE para apoio ao trabalho a realizar no ambito
do apoio a reforma do ensino. Tambem foram adquiridas duas viaturas (um minibus
para apoio aos tecnicos angolanos envolvidos no projecto de reforma do ensino e uma
viatura ligeira para apoio a assistencia tecnica), assim como foram daquiridos
equipamentos para as 14 residencias dos Directores das Escolas. Para apoio aos
tecnicos angolanos no desenvolvimento do trabalho no ambito da reforma do ensino,
foram adquiridas obras de referencia e materiais pedag6gicos. Receberam forma,ao no
exterior 5 Tecnicos do INIDE, nas areas de "Desenvolvimento Curricular",
"Concepgao, elabora,ao e aquisicao de manuais escolares", e na area da "planificacao
da educa9ao ", num total de 49 H/ mes. Relativamente a assistencia tecnica, para apoio
a realizacao dos trabalhos da Reforma do Sistema Educativo na elaboragao de materiais
pedag6gicos e na avaliagao da aprendizagem dos alunos e do sistema educativo foi
prestada assistencia tecnica num total de 30 meses, por dois periodos. Os trabalhos
realizados durante este periodo foram : programas do ensino primrario, num total de
42 programas, dois planos de estudos, um  do Primario e um  lo.Ciclo do
Secundirio e o Perfil de saida do aluno a saida da 6a.classe , numtotal de 10%
foram realizados na la.parte. Durante a 2a.assistencia tecnica foram  realizados
:Manuais do Ensino Primirio - dos 42 manuais necessarios para o ensino primario
ficam concluidos 23; Ensino Secundirio - lo. Ciclo: Programas do lo. ciclo do
Ensino Secundirio- dos 39 programas previstos , ficarn concluidos 34; Manuais do
lo. Ciclo do Ensino Secundirio - dos 39 manuais necessarios , ficam concluidos
15;Programas do 2o. ciclo do Ensino do Ensino Secundirio - dos 72 programas
necessarios de executar, ficarn concluidos 35 ;  Programas da Forma,ao de
professores do Ensino Primirio - dos 35 prograrnas neccessarios realizar , ficam
executados e concluidos 22;Formaqo de professores do Ensino Secundirio - dos
120 programas necessarios ficam concluidos 71; Manuais do Ensino 2o.ciclo do
Esnsino Secundirio - conforme estabelecido foram seleccionados e indicados os
manuais a utilizar referente aos programas do 2o. ciclo ja concluidos, num total de 35.
No entanto outros materiais tambem necessarios foram executados , tendo ficado
concluidos . Assim foram elaborados materiais ( textos) para a Fundamentacio dos
curriculos num total de 22 textos; Foram elaborados os Planos de Estudos da
Formacao de Professores do Ensino Primirio- 1 plano e do Ensino Secundairio - 8
planos; Perfil do aluno na saida do fim de cada nivel de ensino e respectiva
justifica,co - num total de 4; Sistema de avalia,co dos alunos e do sistema
44



Annex 8
educativo- foi elaborado 1 do Ensino Primario, 1 do Ensino Secundario e 1 do Sistema
Educativo.
De acordo com o INIDE os restantes materiais em falta serao executados e concluidos
com a continua,ao do trabalho por parte dos Tecnicos e em simultaneo serao formadas
as equipas em falta e noutros casos havera a substitui,ao de alguns dos tecnicos por
outros , com o fim se reforcarem as equpas mais fracas.
Refor,o das capacidades administrativas do Ministerio da Educa,co -Nesta
componente, dando cumprimento ao estabelecido foram executadas obras de constru,cao
civil no sexto piso do Ministerio para instala,cao da Unidade de gestao do projecto, bem
como a constru,co de seis vivendas do Complexo residencial para alojamento dos tecnicos
do projecto e a constru,co do Centro de Forma,co de Quadros do Ministerio da
Educa,ao.Nesta componente foi, igualmente, construido um Instituto Nacional de
Educaca (INE) que se encontra em pleno funcionamento. De referir que, no ambito da
reforma do ensino, esta a ser implementado no INE ( magisterio primario ) a titulo
experimental (programa de transi,ao) o Estudo realizado no ambito do projecto e
aprovado pelo   Ministerio da Educa,co  sobre "A  forma,co  de  Professores  e
Reorganiza,co dos INE's".Neste Estudo esta definido o perfil de saida dos
pr6ximos professores do ensinoprimario.
Foi adquirido mobiliario de escrit6rio, escolar e de apoio a informatica para equipar a
unidade de gestao do projecto, para as estruturas do Ministerio da Educa,ao que
integravam as areas de interven,ao do projecto (Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento,
Direccao Nacional da Administra,ao e Gestao do Or,amnento, Direc,ao Nacional de
Forma,cao de Quadros e Departamento de Recursos Humanos), para o Centro de Forma,co
de Quadros da Educa,ao e para o I.N.E. (magisterio primario). Tarnbem foi adquirido
mobiliario para as residencias dos Directores do C.F.Q.E e I.N.E. (Magisterio Primanrio
e para as vivendas para alojamento dos tecnicos.Forarn adquiridos equipamentos de
escrit6rio ,equipamentos escolares e de informaitica para as estruturas do Ministerio acima
referidas, para a Unidade de gestao do projecto, para o Centro de Forma,cao de Quadros da
Educa,ao e para o I.N.E. (magisterio primario).Foramn, igualmente, adquiridas duas
viaturas ,urna ligeira para apoio a Assistencia Tecnica e um Minibus para apoio dos
formandos do centro de formacao de qudros da educa,cao, bem como os equiparnentos
para as resid8ncias dos Directores (C.F.Q.E. e I.N.E./Magisterio Primario) e vivendas para
alojamento dos tecnicos.
Foram adquiridos materiais pedag6gicos atraves da UNICEF, num total de 7.520.070
unidades e 1.225.000 exemplares de manuais escolares (nao previstos no Acordo de
Credito e ja mencionados nos pontos anteriores) para distribui,ao gratuita pelos alunos
mais carenciados de todas as escolas do ensino de base das 18 provincias do pais.
Beneficiaram de forma9co no exterior atraves de cursos, estagios e visitas de estudos
tecnicos do Ministerio da Educa9ao e das delega,6es provinciais de Luanda, Huambo,
Benguela, Huila, Kwanza Norte e Lunda Sul: a) 19 tecnicos, num total de 74 H / mes do
Gabinete de Estudos e Planeamento nas areas de avalia,cao e gestao de projectos,
pilotagem  e avalia,ao da qualidade da educac,o, desenvolvimento da educa,cao,
administra,cao e planifica,co da educac,ao, or,camento e planos da educa,cao, carta escolar,
estatistica da educa,cao, desembolsos, gestao de obras, autocad, estudos e planifica,ao das
constru,6es escolares, contabilidade puiblica, organentos; b) 24 tecnicos num total de 44
H/ m8s da Direcsao Nacional de Administrac,o e Gestao do OrVamento nas areas de
gestao or,amental e contabilidade pAblica, finan,as puiblicas e engenharia financeira; c) 23
45



Annex 8
t&enicos num total de 51 H I m8s da Direccao Nacional da Formacao de
Quadros/IDNFQ, nas areas de inspeccao escolar, avaliacao pedag6gica e area de gestao
escolar ( formacao nao prevista inicialmente ) , 2 tecnicos gestao escolar e organizacao de
centros de formacao de quadros; d) 17 tecnicos num total de 53 H / mes do departamento
de Recursos Humanos nas areas de gestao de recursos humanos em geral e gestao de
recursos humanos na funcao publica.
Beneficiaram de forma9do local nas areas de informatica, introducao as tecnicas de
secretariado, gestao escolar, gestao de projectos, organizacao administrativa, formacao de
professores e reorganizacao dos INE's, Carta Escolar e Planificacao da Educacao,gestao de
recursos humanos e gestao or,camental e formacao de formadores , funcionarios do
Minist6rio da Educacao ,das Delegacoes Provinciais de Luanda, Cabinda, Kuanza Norte,
Benguela, Huila, das Delegac6es Municipais de Luanda, dos INE's das 18 provincias de
Angola, Directores e Directores Adjuntos das Escolas Primarias e Secundaras construidas
e reabilitadas no ambito do Prjecto e Inspectores Nacionas, num total de 222 tecnicos da
Educacao de Luanda na area da informatica; b) 60 funcionarios do Ministerio da Educacao,
Delegacao Provincial e delegac6es municipais de Luanda nas area de introducao as
tecnicas de secretariado; c) 10 tecnicos das delegac6es municipais da educacao na area de
gestao escolar; d) 20 directores de escolas do projecto na area de gestao escolar; e) 1
funcionario do Ministerio da Educacato nas area de gestao de projectos; f) 1 funcionario do
Ministerio da Educagao na area de organizacao administrativa; g) 40 directores e directores
adjuntos dos Institutos Normais de Educacao (INE's) das 18 provincias, e tecnicos da
educacao na area de formacao de professores e reorganizacao dos INE's; h) 10 tecnicos do
Ministerio da Educacao, das Delegac6es Provinciais da Educacao de Luanda e Cabinda na
area da Carta Escolar; i) cursos de forrnaco em gestao de recursos humanos e gestao
oraramental e infornatica, nas provincias de Luanda, Benguela, Cabinda e Huila
ministrados por 2 tecnicos da area dos Recursos Humanos e da DNAGO do Ministerio,
abrangendo cerca de 60 tecnicos, num total de 181 H / mes.
No ambito do refor9o da capacidade do Ministerio da Educa,co nas areas adimistrativas,
do planeamento e estatistica da educacao, da gestao e definicao das estrategias futuras dos
recursos humanos e da gestao, controlo e acompanhamento de execucao do Plano de
Actividades e do Orcamento e sua informatizacao, o Ministerio beneficiou de uma
Assistencia Tecnica durante o periodo de execucao do projecto, tendo os tecnicos
beneficiado de formacao em exercicio (formacao on job). Foi prestada Assistencia Tecnica
ao Ministerio para a instalacao do departamento responsavel pelas construc6es escolares,.
Tambem neste contexto de reforco da capacidade do Ministerio ,com o fin de dotar ,o
Ministerio da Educacao e todas a suas estruturas provinciais e municipais, de quadros
tecnicamente preparados, foi feita a instalacao do Centro de Formacao de Quadros da
Educacao atraves de uma Assistencia Tecnica, que se encontra ja em funcionamento.
Ensino Superior - Apoio Institucional it Reitoria e Faculdade de Economia da
Universidade Agostinho Neto - De acordo com o previsto foi aduirido: a) mobiliario para
a Reitoria da Universidade e faculdade de Economia, para as instalacoes de apoio a
Assistencia Tecnica, bem como mobiliario para o anfiteatro da Faculdade de Economia; b)
Foram adquiridos equipamentos de escrit6rio, informatica e de reprografia, bem como 1
viatura de apoio a assistencia Tecnica da faculdade de Economia; c) Foram adquiridos
equipamentos de escrit6rio e informatica, bem como duas viaturas para apoio aos tecnicos
da Reitoria da Universidade e Assistencia Tecnica; d) Foram, igualmente, adquiridos,
equipamentos de escrit6rio e de informatica para as Faculdades de Medicina, Engenharia,
46



Annex 8
Direito, Arquitectura, Ciencias Agrarias e para os ISCED-Instituto Superior de Ciencias da
Educacao de Luanda e Lubango; e) Tamnbem foramn adquiridas obras de referencia e
assinaturas, por um periodo de tres anos, de revistas tecnicas nas diversas areas de gestao e
planificacao para a Faculdade de Economia e para a Reitoria e Faculdades de Medicina,
Direito e Engenheiria.
Os tecnicos e professores da faculdade de Economia beneficiaram de formacao de p6s-
gradua,ao de mestrado no exterior: a) 16 professores num total de 348 H / mes nas
especializacoes de Contabilidade, Gestao Financeira, Ciencias Juridicas e Econometria; b)
2 professores, num total de 12 H/ /m8s beneficiaram de cursos de actualiza,ao cientifica;
c) 3 professores, num total de 3 H/mes efectuaram visitas de estudos a tres universidades,
Lisboa, Londres e Washington; d) 1 tecnico superior, num total de 8 H/m&s, recebeu
formacao na area de biblioteca e gestao de documenta,ao; e) 7 tecnicos administrativos,
num total de 11 H / mes, receberam formacao nas areas de Contabilidade Puiblica,
Informntica aplicada na Gestao, Estatistica e Qualificacao da Educacao, Avaliacao
Pedag6gica e Tecnicas de Reprografia
Beneficiaram de forma,ao no exterior 5 tecnicos superiores da Reitoria, num total de 10
H / mes, nas areas de gestao de recursos humanos, planifica,ao da educa,cao, gestao
financeira, gestao academica e rela,6es universitarias; 3 tecnicos superiores, num total
de 9 tecnicos/m es, da faculdade de Engenheiria e da Faculdade de Ciencias Agra.rias
beneficiaram de formacao na area de gestao de bibliotecas.
Nesta componente tambem foi realizada Formacao Local destinada a cerca de 30
professores da Faculdade de Economia, num total de 60 H / mes nas diversas
especializa,oes ministrados pelo Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestao (ISEG) e foi
realizado um Forum Internacional sobre "O Ensino Superior em Angola", no qual
participaram professores e gestores das varias faculdades da Universidade, num total de
16 H / m8s.
Tambem a assistencia tecnica prevista para esta componente foi realizada. Assim, neste
ambito temos a considerar: a) 6 professores , num total de 28 H/me^s, para a Faculdade
de Economia (substitui,ao de professores angolanos que se deslocaramn ao exterior para
cursos de p6s-gradua,co) para leccionarem as cadeiras de Introducao a Economia,
Econometria, Contabilidade e Finan,as; b) A Assistencia Tecnica a Reitoria concentrou-se
essencialmente no diagn6stico da situacao administrativa e tecnica dos servi,os, de forma a
racionalizar o processo informativo e de liga,co com as faculdades, apoiando a tomada
mais celere de decis6es e fizeram-se, igualmente, estudos sectoriais, abrangendo as areas
de : Medicina, Direito, Matematica, Economia, Arquitectura, Ciencias Agrarias, e fez-se
formacao em exercicio (forma,cao on job). Foi produzido o documento " Contributos para a
Revitalizacao da Universidade em Angola". Este documento foi apresentado e discutido
durante o Forum Internacional , do qual sairamn as linhas orientadoras para o futuro da
Universidade em Angola.
ESTUDOS - Nesta componente do projecto realizaram-se estudos para preparar as
estrategias, particularmente, para reabilitacao, revitaliza,co e expansao progressiva do
sistema educativo Estudos Preparativos de Futuros Investimentos, que tam como base a
reabilitagdo, reforgo e expansao progressiva do sistema educativo em Angola, como uma
das prioridades do Govemo de Angola. Foram realizadodos seguintes estudos: 1) Custos e
Financiamento da Educacao; 2) Desenvolvimento do Ensino Particular em Angola; 3)
Formacao de Professores e Reorganizacao dos INE's; 4) Carta Escolar do Ensino
Medio Tecnico das Provincias de Luanda e Cabinda. E de referir nesta Categoria os
47



Annex 8
estudos elaborados pelas diversas assistencias tecnicas nas diversas ireas especializadas
do Ministerio da Educacao (Planeamento e Estatistica; Gestio de Recursos
Humanos; Administracao e GestAo Orcamental; Gestio dos Recursos Fisicos e
Materiais; Estatutos,Regulamento e Organizaq&o pedag6gica, administrativa e
orcamental do Centro de Formacao de Quadros da Educacao. No ambito do projecto estA
a ser feita uma sintese dos estudos realizados nas areas de "Custos e Financiamento da
Educacao", "Formagao de Professores e Reorganizacao dos INE's", "Elaboracao da Carta
Escolar do  Ensino  Medio  Tecnico  da Provincia de Luanda  e  Cabinda " e
"Desenvolvimento do Ensino Particular".
Unidade de Gestao do Projecto - Para execucao de todas as accoes do projecto foi
instalada a Unidade de execucao do Projecto (60. piso do MED) e para a qual foi adquirido
mobiliario de escrit6rio e informatico , assim como equipamentos de escrit6rio, reprografia
e informatico. Tambem foram adquiridas viaturas para apoio a gestao do projecto e a
assistencia tecnica.
Foi prestada Assistencia Tecnica atraves de tecnicos expatriados A Unidade de Gestao do
Projecto nos postos de Administracao, Arquitectura, Aquisicoes (procurement), Auditoria
as contas do projecto e fez-se formacao em exercicio (formacao on job).
Para funcionamento da Unidade de GestAo de Projecto, bem como a conservacao e
manutenc9ao de todos os equipamentos de escrit6rio, escolar, de informatica e viaturas
adquiridos para todas as componentes do projecto, incluindo a manutencao, proteccAo e
seguranca do complexo residencial para alojamento dos tecnicos, bem como a proteccao
fisica das instalac6es da unidade de projecto. Foram tambem pagos os salarios dos quadros
angolanos afectos a unidade de projecto.
4. RESULTADOS ALCANCADOS PELO PROJECTO
Os resultados obtidos pelo projecto, em termos globais, podem ser medidos atraves: a)
do reforco da capacidade tecnica do Ministerio da Educacao na gestao do sistema
educativo em angola, diagn6stico, coordenacao, controlo, planificacao das
necessidades da educacao; b) da melhoria da qualidade da gestAo dos centros escolares,
incluindo o ensino superior; c) do aumento da qualidade do ensino basico do primeiro e
segundo nivel; d) aumento do universo escolar das criancas em idade escolar; e) do
aumento do patrim6nio fisico e material do Ministero da Educacao; f) da adaptacao do
ensino primario e secundario As reformas macro-econ6micas e ao novo tipo de
sociedade moderna que se pretende instalar em Angola; g) do combate ao
analfabetismo e falta de quadros tecnicos na area do ensino.
Somos de opiniao que foram obtidos resultados satisfat6rios, medidos nos factores aqui
mencionados, apesar da degradacao da situacao social ,econ6mica e politica, medida
nos indices do desenvolvimento humano avancados pelo PNUD, durante o periodo de
implementacao do projecto, devido A guerra.
No entanto, tendo-se limitado a Provincia de Luanda, ponto de concentracao de
milhares de deslocados das zonas de conflito armado, nomeadamente de milhares e
milhares de criancas em idade escolar, o Projecto foi de algum modo penalizado pela
fraca dotacaode meios financeiros do Govemo para o sector da EducacAo, importantes
para manter, conservar e dar continuidade aos seus objectivos.
48



Annex 8
*  Os resultados alcancados por cada uma das componentes do projecto devem ser, a
nosso entender, diferenciados a fim de ajudar o Governo a determinar as prioridades de
posteriores financiamentos. Assim no que se refere a Componente A -
Desenvolvimento de um Modelo Experimental do Novo Sistema de Ensino - para
alem das escolas construidas, reabilitados e apetrechadas, com exito, parece-nos de
extrema importancia o trabalho realizado, com resultados praticos e possiveis, ao nivel
do Instituto Nacional de Investigacao e Desernvolvimento- INIDE, mas insuficientes
devido ao nivel, muito baixo, de preparacao t6cnica e pedag6gica dos investigadores do
Instituto, com visiveis tracos de falta de preparacao em lingua portuguesa. Este aspecto
dificultou o aproveitamento e a potencializacao do projecto. Apesar destas dificuldades
foi possivel garantir no total das duas A.T. o cumprimento de cerca de 68% da
elaboracao e programacao dos cursos do ensino primario e secundario e manuais
escolares, em conformidade com a reforma do ensino/novo sistema de ensino. Somos
da opiniao que os futuros financiamentos para Educacao, devem previligiar o apoio ao
INIDE preparando-o para futuras tarefas de pesquisa no ambito do desenvolvimento
do ensino em Angola. NA Componente B - Reforco das capacidades
administrativas do Ministerio da Educacao, abstraindo-nos das obras de construcao
civil, mobiliario, equipamentos e veiculos, que cumpriram com os seus objectivos e
foram um suporte ao exito do projecto, temos a considerar o alcance de muito bons
resultados na area administrativa e organizacional , na medida em que o Ministerio da
Educa=ao passou a ter disponivel capacidades tecnicas, tanto te6ricas como praticas,
nas diversas areas da gestao do sistema educativo ao nivel das 18 provincias. Cabe,
agora ao Governo, potencializar esta capacidade organizativa criada com o projecto,
garantindo estimulos financeiros e condicoes s6cio-econ6micos de enquadramento dos
tlcnicos. As ferramentos e os instrumentos de trabalho foram cedidos pelo Projecto.
Resta ao Govemo utiliza-los racionalmente. Tambem nesta componente foi possivel
dotar as criancas mais vulneraveis das 18 provincias de manuais escolares para uma
melhor aprendizagem. Na Componente C - Ensino Superior, Apoio Institucional a
Reitoria e Faculdade de Economia da Universidade Agostinho Neto - reforcou-se o
apoio logislico ao seu funcionarnento atraves da entrega de equipamentos, veiculos e
materiais pedag6gicos e cientificos, tendo assim o projecto contribuindo para um
melhor funcionamento do processo de desenvolvimento do ensino superior. Formaram -
se professores em cursos p6s-graduacao, constituindo este facto, um importante
contributo para que a Universidade Agostinho Neto, num futuro pr6ximo, possa
leccionar cursos de p6s-graduacao e conceder graus academicos de mestrado e
doutoramento. Mais urna vez, cabe ao Govemo potenciar as capacidade concedidas
pelo projecto. Na Componente D - Preparar estrategias, particularmente para a
ReabilitacAo, Revitaliza9&o e ExpansAo Progressiva do Sistema Educativo e
Estudos Preparativos de Futuros Investimentos - o Ministero da Educacao disp6e
de Estudos e Documentos Estrategicos que o vao apoiar a definir os caminhos para a
moderniza9ao do sistema educativo atraves da reforma do ensino. Os quadros tecnicos
para a implementacao dos planos de reforma receberam a devida forma9ao, sendo
assim da responsabilidade do Govemo garantir as condicoes s6cio-econ6micas e
logisticas para a plena sustentabilidade do legado do projecto.
49



Annex 8
5. SUSTENTABILIDADE DO PROJECTO
42. Neste ambito, importa salientar os esfor,os desenvolvidos pelo Ministerio da Educacao
no cumprimento das suas obrigac6es assumidas no Acordo de Credito, que garantiu o
alcance de resultados positivos. Contudo e necessario tomar em consideracao, que o
processo da reforma do ensino exige maior empenho financeiro e tecnico, no ambito da
reforma da fiunco puiblica em Angola. Portanto, a sustentabilidade do projecto exige,
por um lado, a manuten,co e o desenvolvimento das capacidades criadas pelo projecto,
e por outro lado, a definicao de urna estrategia de desenvolvimento social, econ6mico e
estrutural que rentabilize o sistema educativo. Assim, a reforma do ensino devera ser
uma das prioridades sociais do Governo.
6. DESEMPENHO DO BANCO
43. Podemos considerar satisfat6rio o apoio do Banco na implementacao do projecto.
Apesar dos constrangimentos que foram surgindo ao longo do projecto, devido a
situacao existente no pais, o Banco desenvolveu esfor,os para responder positivarnente
ao desenvolvimento do projecto, embora tenha havido atrasos iniciais na autorizacao
para a realizacao das acc6es. Estabeleceu-se assim um relacionamento de confianca e
de desempenho das partes que muito contribuiu para os resultados alcancados. Nesta
base foi possivel a utilizacao de verbas remanescentes para ac,ces inicialmente nao
previstas no Acordo de Credito. Os "aide memoires" elaborados pelas varias miss6es
de supervisao ao longo da execucao do projecto refletem o bom andarnento e a total
execucao das componentes/categorias do projecto, manifestado pelo facto da categoria
4 ter sido financiada a 100% pelo Banco, quando inicialmente estava previsto apenas o
financiamento a 90%.
7. DESEMPENHO DO BENEFICIARIO
44. Relativamento ao desempenho do Beneficiario na implementacao do projecto,
podemos considerar duas vertentes. Uma que se refere ao comportamento do Govemo
de Angola relativamente ao cumprimento do estabelecido no Acordo de Credito. Neste
caso o Governo deveria ter efectuado entregas monetarias em USD a conta do projecto
nurn valor inicial de USD 250 mil e trimestralmente, ou sempre que fosse necessario,
efectuar dep6sitos para manter sempre o saldo inicial ate ao total de USD 4,1 milhoes.
A outra vertente refere-se ao facto de que por raz6es inerentes a situa,co militar e
econ6mica no pais, que obrigou ao desvio de verbas orcamentais para outros sectores
prioritarios, levou a que a contraparte do Governo fosse realizada parcialmente, tendo
garantido no final do projecto o pagamnento de todas as despesas inerentes a sua
responsabilidade.
50



Annex 8
45. Temos a considerar o desempenho altamente profissional e responsavel da unidade de
gestao do projecto, que levou a resolu,ao de numerosos problemas financeiros e
logisticos e de organiza,ao numa situa,cao de risco por razoes sobejamente referidas
neste relat6rio. 0 nivel de gestao e de direc,co do projecto garantiu o alcance dos seus
resultados positivos, tendo-se desenvolvido um relacionamento de parceria com o
Banco Mundial, e entre os diferentes interveniente.
8. FUTURAS OPERA,COES NA AREA DA EDUCA,CAO
46. Esta em curso a Reforma do Sistema Educativo, sendo pertinente a continua,ao do
apoio do Banco Mundial a nivel do INIDE nas areas do desenvolvimento curricular e
elaboracao de materiais pedag6gicos, ac,6es de forma,cao dos tecnicos do INIDE a fim
de capacitA-los nas areas tecnico-cientificas para poderem implementar os documentos
elaborados com o apoio da Assist8ncia Tecnica e forma,ao de formadores. E tambem
necessario continuar a apoiar o Ministerio na implementa,ao dos planos de
desenvolvimento estrutural e organizativo e estend8-los as delega,6es provinciais da
educa,ao. Por outro lado, tendo come,ado a funcionar o Centro de Forma,ao de
Quadros da Educa,ao, e necessario apoio e acompanhamento no desenvolvimento das
ac,6es de forma,co. Por outro lado, aconselha-se a que, no anbito do funcionamento
do Departamento de Constru,6es Escolares em colabora,ao com o Gabinete do
Planeamento sejam definidos as escolas primarias e secundarias a construir e a
reabilitar ao nivel de todas as provincias por forma a que se consigam atingir a
sustentabilidade dos resultados avan,ados pela Carta Escolar elaborada ao abrigo do
projecto. E, pois, importante desenvolver una politica de manuten,ao e conservacao
dos estabelecimentos escolares.
47. Continuar a apoiar a restrutura,ao do Ensino Superior em Angola, tanto a nivel
curricular como a nfvel do reforco das capacidades cientificas.
8. PRINCIPAIS EXPERIENCIAS DO PROJECTO
48. 0 projecto demonstrou claramnente a possibilidade de avan,ar com a reforma do
sistema educativo em Angola, na fase de transi,ao de uma economia centralizada para
urna economia de mercado e numa situa,ao de conflito arinado, constituindo urn
estimulo importante para se encarar a possibilidade de implementa,co de ac,6es de
desenvolvimento, criando mais valias em termos macro-econ6micos. Outra li,ao que o
Govemo tera de encarar seriamente e o nivel de remunera,ao do pessoal docente e
administrativo, no a1mbito de uma ampla reforma da func,ao puiblica. 0 nivel salarial do
pessoal do sector da educa,ao constituiu urn serio constrangimento a pr6pria execu,cao
do projecto, sempre que era exigido empenho para a realizagcao das ac,ces da parte dos
tecnicos e funcionarios.
51



Annex 8
49. A metodologia seleccionada para a gestao do projecto (unidade de projecto) em
termos estruturais, organizacionais e funcionais pareceu ser a mais adequada ao seu
bom funcionamento.
52



Annex 8
Quadro 4: Desembolsos da linha de credito: valores acumulados, estimados e
actualizados
(em milhoes de USD)
FY 93  FY 94    FY 95    FY 96   FY 97   FY 98   FY 99
Previsao
desembolsos     3,40    12,40    22,80    25,40   27,00    27,10    0,00
executado      1,46    2,43     8,16    13,68   20,00    23,93   26,70
% do estimado   43 %     20%      36%      54%      74%     88%      99%
53



Annex 9
Angola - First Education Project
(IDA Credit No.2375-ANG)
Aide-Memoire
Implementation Completion Report Mission
January 22-29,2000
World Bank Mission Members
Joseph Bredie (Team Leader); Jerome Chevallier (Consultant); Wim Alberts
(Economist); Anne Anglio (Team Assistant)
1.  A World Bank mission visited Angola from January 22 to January 29, 2000, to
prepare the ICR (Implementation Completion Report) for the First Education Project,
which was closed on September 30, 1999. The ICR exercise provides an opportunity for
the Government and the Bank to assess the results achieved and their sustainability,
review the factors that affected implementation, and draw the lessons learned from the
experience.
2.   The mission met with key staff in the Ministry of Education and in the institutions
responsible for the implementation of the project. The mission also visited a number of
schools that received inputs under the Project and some that did not. It also discussed
general issues having to do with primary education development in Angola with key
interlocutors. A list of those met in connection with the ICR for the First Education
Project is included in an annex to this Aide-Memoire. The team members would like to
thank all those who gave generously of their time and provided access to relevant
information for this exercise.
3.   The Project became effective after hostilities resumed. This situation caused a slow
start-up of implementation and delays with procurement and technical assistance. Also,
public expenditures rose to unsustainable level and the macroeconomic situation
deteriorated steadily during project implementation. Inflation peaked at over 10,000
percent in 1996, which reduced the buying power of income, particularly in the civil
service. Moreover, expenditures for social sectors were crowded out by increased
defense expenditures.
Achievements and sustainable outcomes
4.   The goal of the Project was to correct the major inefficiencies in the sector and
prepare a strategy for the overall rehabilitation, revitalization and expansion of the
education system. To accomplish this goal, the Project would pursue four objectives: (a)
develop a demonstration model of quality schools and implement a new structure; (b)
strengthen sector management capacity; (c) improve economics training and
management information at the Agostinho Neto University (ANU); and, (d) develop a
strategy for sector rehabilitation and gradual expansion.
54



Annex 9
5.  The Project has partially achieved the goal it set out to accomplish. With the
accomplishment in whole or part of the four project objectives, and the drafting of the
1988 basic law on education, the Government is about ready to introduce the
new/reformed structure that would correct the major sector inefficiencies. The cost of
introducing the reformed structure has also been estimated and the necessary funds would
become available with the reduction of defense expenditure with the cessation of
hostilities, the effective allocation of the energy tax for education, and Donor support.
6.  The four objectives of developing the demonstration model, strengthening the
management capacity, developing the strategy, and improving economics training have
been accomplished in whole or in part. With the successful development of the
demonstration model in Luanda province, the Project has helped to define the quality
standards and inputs that are necessary to improve efficiency. The National Institute for
Educational Research and Development (INIDE) has completed about 60 percent of the
work on the reform program, teacher training, and learning materials. A beginning has
been made with strengthening of sector management capacity in planning and statistics,
budgeting and finance, and human resource development. The strategy for rehabilitation,
revitalization and gradual expansion was prepared in detail in 1995 with Unesco
assistance. Also, the improvement of the quality and management of ANU faculty of
economics has been accomplished. Project implementation should be rated satisfactory.
7.  The performance of the Government and the Bank are also rated satisfactory.
Implementation delays were mainly due to hostilities and the chronic shortage of
resources they caused. The Bank missions worked closely with the Government and
were flexible in adjusting project resources to achieve the objectives.
Lessons Learned
8.  The implementation experience of the Education Project has taught the
Government and the Bank several key lessons.
(a) To sustain a basic level of quality of the education system, the Government must
assure that a minimum allocation for non-salary expenditures is made available to
education institutions.
(b) Implementation benefited from the Government's decision to charge the department
of planning of the Ministry of Education with the responsibility to implement the project
(instead of creating a separate project implementation unit as was done for the health
project).
(c) The Government has accepted the policy that sector staff must be remunerated
adequately. The policy should now be put into practice.
(d) The role of INIDE in producing learning materials for all levels of the reformed
structure should be revisited. It would be more efficient to use teams of experienced
teachers employed in the system equipped with materials developed elsewhere for
adaptation.
55



Annex 9
Next Steps
9.   On the basis of the information gathered during the mission, as well as a study of
World Bank documents and supervision reports, the Bank will now prepare an ICR. This
will be presented to Government in draft by the middle of February 2000, to obtain
factual corrections before the report is finalized. The Government's own contribution to
the ICR, which was submitted to the Bank on January 24, 2000 and discussed with
relevant parties during the mission, will be appended as an annex to the ICR. The final
ICR will be submitted officially to Government by the Bank end of March 2000.
10. Again, we would like to thank all the persons who have aided us in our mission.
Luanda, Angola, January 29, 2000
56



Annex 10
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT I ANGOLA
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
Table 8A: Project Costs
Itemn                   __AppraisalEstimate  U~$mm              I Estimated Actual Costs( (S$mrnj.
Local        Foreign         Total         Local        Foreign         Total
Costs         Costs          Costs         Costs         Costs          Costs
A.Civil WNorks                                 1,7(          9,50         11,20           1,12         10,13          11,25
B.Furniture                                   1,60           0,70          2,30           0,00          2,01          2,01
C.Equipment & Vehicles                         0,00           1,70          1,70          0,00           2,22          2,22
D.Pedagogical Material                        0,00           1,40          1,40           0,00          2,71           2,71
E.Technical Assistance                        0,00           4,40          4,40           0,00          5,04           5,04
F.Training
1. Local                                    1,00          0,20           1,20          0,13           0,09          0,22
2. Foreign                                  0,00          2,70           2,70          0,00           2,28          2,28
Sub-Total                                      1,00          2,90           3,90          0,13           2,37          2,50
G. Honoraries                                 0,00           0,80          0,80           0,00          0,00          0,o0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                      4,30          21,40         25,70           1,25         24,48         25,73
II. RECURRENT COSTS                 -                  .                                  ._.
A. Operation & Maintenance                     0,50          1,20           1,60          0,56           2,23          2,7'
Total BASELINE COSTS                           4,80         22,60          27,30          1,81          26,71         28,52
Physical Contingencies                      0,40           1,30          1,60
Price Contingencies                _____  050    _         1,0           2,30 ____  , 
Total PROJECTS COSTS                          5,701        25,701         31,201          1,811        26,711        28,52
Table 8B: Project Finaniciig (US$mrn)
Source          __       .Appraisal estimate                                Actual/latest estimtite     __
Locil costs ^ Foreign costs   Total costs   Local costs a Foreign costs   Total costs
IDA                                                         25,70          25,70                        26,71         26,71
Governmetit                                   5,70              .     . _   5,70          1,81                          1,81
Total                                          5,70         25,70          31,40          1,81          26,71         28,52
* Official exchanae rate






IBRD 24288
.  GABON  \    7                            _ G~           KENYA
IWRANDA
\ \ ,) CONGOJ                BURUNDI
t~ASINDA  o     _'                                    TANZANIA
JANG01L)                                       .                                                                  ANGOLA
buonde (   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       <,A           MAAWI
; JrIll   ANGOLA      1                 /N
0      SELECTED TOWNS                  4       AIRPORTS
       PROVINCE CAPITALS                       PORTS
,    N  ZIMBAEWE    .-   @ NATIONAL CAPITAL  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
NAMIBIA                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
- MAIN ROADS                -          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CONGO
.   12    |            6 ~ ~            /#              16                           '-a--    RAILROADS
CABIN0A                                                                                   M |-tILES   0               T00                 200                  300
CABINDA    J ..           '                                                                                            I                   I                    I
KILOMETERS  0           loo          200           300          400          500
%            h ~MBANZA                         QUm   e   1   _   __  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _
ZAIRE                                               t20 ,                                                                                                24
UIGE   /
<        , -r  .  ~~UIGEOS                                      
4-   (                              \} \                                                  )             rheWoDrld ok's staff extirrTWdely
8- jN 0 _                                                                                     w    , i C=mrbula fo fr the c onvenience of refders 8 -
a-d  isecrsol   for the
L               in~~~rt-rnl -r of The WorldBook
CA2O                              <                                       NORTE             LUCAPA)  F                    OrorTe deBooenoooons rood
LUNDA                         >non  the  b-ridae-  shor-
CUANZA   /NORTE/o thrr -op da -ot irply, on the
4.                                                                                                  port~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F    of The World Ban Grop,
LUANDAX   +NORTE                                      MALANJE                                                                          any judrerent on the logol
-Uz'    ,         N'DALATANDO          'Cso-o                                                                                      at e o  oay terrtor or ooy
LUANDA           .                                  MALANJE                                                     J                         such bo-ndories.
A      NC              'BENGO C
N, X > CUANZA  .......  ' ond
P.tsAb       GChelo         SUL                                                                                                  To Lriboorbah,
Po to A m b;\  \    BUL  8   , >>                                 ~~~~~~~~~LUNDA  )SUL                     _lolbmoh
N'GUNZA
CCEA.1                                                                                                 UENA
HUMrBO   N<              ,'I,2BIE
12                                                          HAV8
-  52  v^>jLobit6 ~{  
BENGUELA                        HUABO                  UITO                                     MOXICO
(4             Gondo S.   C/m    -'
BENG  LA
I                                         KroKongo   '           ,           
-   ~~m~~<MENONGUE
i ' /r                                         +                  +                  >   4/     ~N,na ZAMBIA
NAMIBE                        UBANGO
HUILA
Tornbr-ra                                                                       O% Ch'an9 0   g    avrCda      CUANDO
16                                                             CUNENE                                            CUBANGO                                                        16 -
NAMIBEE
T. W,,hk              NAMIBIA                                                                                                29N3
APR'IL 1993



