~~                V A
Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MJICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10338-ANG
Report No. 103B8-ANG Type:  (SAR)
1(OUAG, i   7 X.35524  ,-' J7061 / AF3PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
MAY 4, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit              =      KWANZA (Kz)
US$ 1                      =      Kz 550
Kz 1,000                   =      US$ 1.8
Measures
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                =     3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq. m)     =      10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)           =     0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (sq. km)   =  0.39 sq. mile
Glossary and Abbreviations
AfDB                African Development Bank
ANU                 Agostinho Neto University
BCT                 Basic Center for Training
DCE                 Division of Construction and Equipment
EC                  European Community
EDIMEL              Empresa Regional de Aquisigao e Distribuigao de Equipamentos e
Material Didactico e Escolar de Luanda (Entreprise for the acquisition
and distribution of school equipment and teaching material in Luanda)
EMATEB              Empresa de Material Escolar de Benguela (Entreprise for school
material In Benguela)
EMT                 Ensino Medio Technico (Technical Middle-Level Education)
GEPP                Gabinete de Estudos, Pianos e Projectos (Office of Studies, Planning
and Projects)
HIES                Higher Institute of Educational Sciences
INIDE               National Institute for Educational Research and Development
MOE                 Ministry of Education
NCL                 National Center for Literacy
NIE                 National Institute of Education (Primary Teacher College)
RSEE                Reformulacao do Systema de Educacao e Ensino (Reform of the
Education System)
PCC                 Project Coordination Committee
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
TA                  Technical assistance
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
UNESCO              United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organiztion
VTC                 Vocational Training Center
Fiscal Year                                      School Year
January 1 - December 31                               September-July



ANGOLA                           FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
FIRST EDUCATIO PROJECT
Table of Content
CREDIT AND PROJEC SUMMARXY
I.   IatLQduction ................................                                            1
II. Ihe Education Sector                       ...1.............. 
A. Generai characteristics ............               ................... .1
B. SectoralIssues ................................                                   3
1. Structure and Access to Education  ........................... 3
2. Quality of Education .................................... 4
3.  Education Management ...............................   5
4. Higher education ................................                             6
5. Financing, Budgeting and Costs ........................... 7
C. The Government's Sectoral Strategy and Investments         .      .               8
D. Ihe Bank Group's Role    ..10
MI.    The                                    Priec .11
A. Project Objectives and Description.. 11
1. Demonstration Model for Education .11
2. Educadonal fanagement .13
3. Higher Education ................................... 16
4. Studies and Preparation of Future nvestmens.                                 16
B. Project Costs and iancing    ..17
1. Project Costs.                               :                              17
2. Project Financing .20
C. Project Management and .plemena..on.                                             21
1. Procurement .23
2. Special Accoui nt.26
3. Accounting, Audidng and Reporting .26
4. Disbursement .26
IV. Proiea Benefits and Risks .27
V.  Ag.me Rehed and Reconmendatio .28
Tlis rpot is baud on the findin of an appaisl mission that visid Angola in NovemblDMecember 1991. The
mission members wer Mosm. D. RPoua (Sr. Educator, Mision Leader), P. Ngomba (Economist), S. Diop
(ratboob Specilist), T. Mlan (Hhwr Eduon Specialis, Conuat). L Hachd (ducation Managanient
Specilis, Conultt), R. S4judo (Archict, Conulta), and L. Vandeveld, (Edcor, Conuanat).
Mr. M. Zymlmn was    Project Lead Adviser and wu pat of dh minion. T  report wa prepaed by Mr.
RouA  with contribution from Mr. Ngomba oa  editid by Mrs. Philli Roos. Ms. V. F_conir, Ms. P. Duchee
and Ms. K Li Tow Ngow povided secrtaidl  ppo* in tie prpato of th rpor  A Mr. A. Colloi and Mr. P.
AguireSscaa aDn the Managing Divion Chief nd the Dea nalDiector respectively for the opued0n.
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Q =nt  (Continued)           - 2 -
1.1   Socio-Economic Background
2.1    Organization Chart of Ministry of Education
2.2   Chart of Current Education System
2.3   Basic Data
2.4   Education Facilides in Luanda Province
2.5 Recent Economic Reforms and Wage Remonetization
2.6 National Pedagogical Institute.(INIDE)
2.7   Administration Traning Needs
2.8   Information on Main Departments and Divisions of MOE4and the Provincial
Delegation
2.9    Angola: Financing for the Adjustenat and Revytizton of the Education System
3.1fa). Summary of New and Rehabilitated Schools
3.1(b) Government Policy Statement
3.2   Sumrmary Account by Project Component
3.3   List of Specialist Services
3.4.  List of Training Abroad
3.5   Project Supervision Summary
3.6   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
3.7   Documents in Project File
3.8   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Me: IBRD No. 23598



ANGOLA
FZSIED=IXAON PROJECT
CRED1T AND PROJECT SUJ MMARY
Borrower:           People's Republic of Angola
Beneficjar=:        Ministry of National Education       -
Amount:             SDR 19.9 million (US$27.1 million equivalent)
Standard, with 40 years' maturity
.1.0
Obives:             The project objectives are to start correcting the major inefficiencies in the
education sector and prepare a strategy for the overall rehabi' ation,
revitalization and progressive expansion of the education system.
CQmpo - h:          (a)    Setti£n up of a demonstration model for education through improvement
of the quality of inputs and adaptation of the education structure including: C')
strengthening of the National bnstitute for Educational Research and Development
to enable it to carry out Its fimctions of producing relevant curricula, teaching
materials and examnadons and evaluation systems; (ii) provision of texbooks to
the demonstration and secondary schools; Ciii) establishment of a prototype
Primary Teacher College; and Civ) rehabilitation of seven and construction of six
primary and secondary schools.
(b)   StrenthezingofteMnistqofEducationsmanagMat aRaiythrough
(i) training of sector adminators; and (d) strengthening of the central and
provincial institutions' capabilities for planning, budgeting, and human and
material resources management;
(c)   Imrovement of the teachlng of economics and management of the
universiIy through (i) training of staff and provision of quality inputs to the
faculty of economics and (ii) rationalizing and strengthening the university
management information system; and
(d)    Studies and pgaradon of fu  investments to define the financial
framework and pace for the reform, rehabilitation and expansion of the education
system, and develop a related investment program.
Benefits:           The main benefits of this project would include: (i) establishing a capacity for
and initiation of education quality improvement; (ii) strengthening the
management capaci of the sector; and (Iii) preparing a strategy for the overall
rehabilitation, revitalization and progressive expansion of the education system.
The implementation of the project would provide the experience required for



-2 -
generalization of the education system reform. More specifically, the project
would provide better teaching condifions to about 24,000 students in primary and
secondary education and in the faculty of economics.
hle main risk Is the weak mangement capacity throughout the education system,
the scarcity of qualified staff, and inexperience with DA's implementation and
procurement procedures. This risk would be minimized, to the extent possible,
through the detailed preparation of project components and activities and the
provision of specialist services and staff training and the use of sample bidding
documents.
Estimated Cos: - US$ million                                               -
Local       Foreign       TO
(a) Demonstration model                       3.3           11.9         15.2
(b) Education management'                      1.5          6.7           8.2
(c) Higher Education                          0.2           3.2           3.4
(d) Studies and preparation                   0.0           0.4           0.4
of future investments
Total base cost                          5.0          22.2         27.2
Physical contingencies                   0.4           1.3          1.7
Price contingencies                      0.5           1.8          2.3
Total project costs
Fmancing Plan:                                          US million       -
Local       Foreign       Total
IDA                                        1.8          25.3         27.1
Government                                 Ax           -_            ,;
5.9          25.3         31.2
'Including Project Management.
2 of which US$1 in taxes and duties



-3 -
1          _maqd disbursements:                      -US$ million
EX2g EXA EX2M E2 EPm   EX2
Amnual                                3.4   9.0  10.4  2.6   1.6    0.1
Cumulative                            3.4  12.4  22.8  25.4  27.0   27.1
Economic Rate of Re :    Not applicable



ANGOLA
FMST ETCAI'ON PROJEC
1. IN fRODUCI I
1.L..  The Government of Angola has requested IDA's assistance in financing the rehabilitation,
revitalization and progressive expansion of its education system in relation to the country's new
perspectives and challenges. The Goverment's purpose is, first, to start carrying out the
adjustment and revitalization of the education system through aeaptation of its structure and
content to the new conditions, along with improvement of the quality of inputs in the rehabilitated
and newly constructed schools at both the primary and secondary levels; and second, to prepare
the conditions for the orderly generalization of the adjustment and expansion of the education
system through strengthening sector management and undertaking related development studies.
The estimated project cost Is about US$31.2 milion, with a foreign exchange component of
US$25.3 million (about 81 percent). US$1.0 million consists of taxes and duties. The
Government would contribute US$4.1 million, with the remaining US$27.1 million equivalent
fanced by IDA. Background information on the country is provided in Annexc 1.1.
1.2 The proposed project would be IDA's first contribution to the rehabilitation and
revitalization of Angola's education system The project would help the Govermnent initiate the
adjustment of the system and bring about progressive improvement in the quality of education.
The project would also strengthen management capacity in tha sector and help undertake the
studies needed to determine the conditions, strategy and pace of the rehabilitation, revitalization
and expansion of the education system
H.          ED ATION SECR
A.    Geea Chamcteristcs
2.1    Mminsaion. Four levels of government are involved in the administration of the
education system. At the central Il, the Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for
policy, overall administration, and monitoring and evaluation of the education system. Ihe
Minister of Educadon is assisted by two Vice-Ministers: the first is responsible for general
education, iecuding primary, secondary and adult educaton, as weU as extra curricular activities;
the second Is responsible for technical and professional education and teacher training. The
university repots directly to the Mini. At the provincial lmveL 18 Provincial Superintendents
of Schools (Delegados Provinciais) ruan the province offices and are subordinate to the Ministe of
Education for )he educational aspe  and to the Provinci Commissioner for the budgetary and
general administrative aspects. At the mundi"  (163) and communal (532) levels, the local
education offices implement and coordinate educational activities. The provincial and municipal
levels are empowered with a relatively high level of decision-makdng authority with regard to



-2 -
budgeting, civil works, and the recruitment of teaching staff. The organiation chart of MOE is
at Annex 2. l.
2.2   Strcturg and orgnigation. The structure of the education sys*em follows the Portuguese
pattern: Pre-school lasts one year; Basig edcation consists of eight years, subdivided into three
levels: the first, which is compulsory, starts at age six and lasts four years with the focus on
literacy/numeracy taught by a single teacher and the second and third levels consist of two years
each with the focus on a wider scope of general education taught by teachers specialized by
subject. General seconuary education is open to students who have completed basic education and
consists of a three-year pre-university program leading to higher edu -ntion. Teachgr training:
teachers for the first level of basic education are recruited from graduates who have completed the
second level of basic education and are trained for two years at the Basic Centers for Training
(BCTs); teach.L. for the second and third levels are recruited from basic education graduates and
are.trained for. four years at the Teacher Training Colleges (Normal Institutes of Education -
NIEs). Teachers for general secondary education and the NEEs receive a five-year training at the
Higher Institute of Educational Sciences (HIES). The Institute also offers correspondence
courses.
-2.3    Technical education consists of a public formal program, Technical Middle-Level
Education (insino Medio Technico - EMT) under MOE, which collaborates for some training
with other technical ministries such as Agriculture or Industry. The EMT schools offer a four-
year stream of secondary education, focusing during the first two years on general education
along with initiation to practical work and during the last two years on spec.alization in a
technical field. Like general secondary education, EMT provides access to higher education.
Vgcational Training Centers (VTCs) are run by different ministries and offer different types of
training, including initial training (two-year programs) and upgrading (short-term training
programs) for youngsters and adults. A National Vocational Training Council, chaired by the
Minister of Labor and including representatives of the relevant ministries and organizations, is in
charge of defining the strategy and orientation of the national vocational training system.
2.4    Hisher and adult education. Agostinho Neto University, the country's only institution of
higher education, was founded on November 26, 1976. It has three campuses: Luanda, Huambo,
and Lubango. Luanda is the largest campus, with 70 percent of the students. The other students
are at Huambo (10 percent), Lubango (7 percent), and in correspondence courses (13 percent).
The Luanda campus comprises the Faculties of Law, Economics, Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine. The Huambo campus comprises the Faculties of Agronomy, Medicine, Economics,.
and Law, while the Lubango campus comprises the Faculties of Economics and Law and the
Higher Institute of Educational Sciences, which trains teachers for the National Institute of
Education. Most of the higher education programs are structured in two levels: the first for three
years and the second for two years (with the exception of Medicine and the Institute of
Educational Sciences, which have a six-year program). Agosdnho Neto University is under the
direct supervision of the Minister of Education. The university is headed by a Rector, assisted by
a University Management Committee (in which faculty directors and the directors of the central
services of the university are represented) and half a dozen central services (Planning, Human
Resources, International Relations, Academic Affairs, Administraton & Budget, and Information
and Documentation). Each Faculty is headed by a Director assisted by a Deputy Director. In
February 1990 a Higher Education Reform Commission was set up to examine the present state of
the university and make recommendations for reforms. Adteducation, which starts at the
literacy stage, has three levels (total of 12 semesters) corresponding to the three levels of basic
education. The existing program includes Portuguese, mathematics, social sciences, and civic



3 -
education. Graduates of the third level have access to secondary education. Adult education is
offered by the National Center for Literacy (NCL) and provided at night, using existing schools.
AnnMe 2 2 shows the structure of the education system; basic data on the system are set out in
Annex 2.3.
B.    Sectoat Issues
1. Structure and Access to Eduation
2.5    Structure of Basic education and teachers training. in 1988/89, enrollment in the fiE
level of basic education represented 87 percent of basic educatio students. Four years of
education are not enough to ensure permanent literacy, particularly when taking into account the
prevailing poor learning conditions. Moreover, four years of education are not sufficient to take
literacy and numeracy to a level of mastery at which they wil; be socially useful or make possible
further training. For the same year 1988/89, enrollment in the second level of basic education,
which normally corresponds to the last two years of priJnary education, represented about 10
percent of basic education while the third level represented about 3 percent. In the second level,
teaching is organized along secondary education lines, with the teachers specialized in two
subjects, thus increasing artificially the qualification required of teachers at that level and, costs.
Teaber training: BTCs and NIEs (para. 2.2) offer, along with professional training, a general
education which overlaps with the third level of basic education for the BTCs and with general
secondary education for the NIEs.
2.6   Infrastructure and equipment. In 1987/88, for basic educaion the number of available
classrooms was about 9,230 for the first level, 1,020 for the second and 150 for the third,
resulting in a classroom/student ratio, nationwide, of 1:116, 1:121 and 1:256, respectively. In
the Province of Luanda, the classroom/student ratio is 1:140 for the first level and 1:132 for the
rest of basic education. Because of the scarcity of classrooms in Luanda as well as in the rest of
the country, practically all the schools operate on a three-shift basis. At the post-basic education
level, pre-university programs are provided in five autonomous schools and in nine schools shared
with either the NIEs or EMTs. Because of their intensive use combined with a lack of
maintenance, almost all the schools are in need of rehabilitation. School furniture is scarce and
there is no repair system. Equipment for the schools is practically nonexistent.
2.7    Access. Between 1970 and 1980, enrollment in basic educaoin increased rapidly from
about 484,000 students to 1,518,000. There was a sharp decline thereafter, to about 1,011,100 in
1985, mainly due to the intensification of the war, but enrollment has been growing since then,
reaching about 1,230,000 students in 1989 and a gross enrollment rate of about 52 percent. Basic
education enrollment is a pyramid with a wide base but very narrow summit, with in 1988/89 87
percent of the students at the first level, 10 percent at the second and only 3 percent at the third.
With the constraint of a narrow recruitment base, seonda  edcation enrollment grew slowly,
from about 2,720 to 4,600 students between 1981 and 1989 for the pre-university program, from
2,390 to 6,080 for the teacher training program, and from 3,020 to 6,100 for the EMTs. During
the early eighties, war and economic problems intensified, with further consequences for basic
education, i.e., reduced resource availability, school closing in rural areas, and a flood of
refugees to urban areas, leading to severe overcrowding of classrooms (para. 2.6). Ihe
enrollment increases following independence and since 1986 reflect both the demand for and
priority given by the Government to education; however, the resulting growth during the first
period, through increases in the student/teacher ratio and number of schools operating in three
daily shifts, has overtaxed the capacity of the system in physical terms in ways that have made it



-4-
unsustainable, particularly at tha basic education level. Annx24 providrs information on the
educational situation in Luanda Province.
2. Oualily f Education
2.8    The quality and efficiency of educadon are excepdonally low. Several factors adversely
affect the quality of education. They relate to the physical conditions and time available for the
teaching/learning process, the avdilability and relevance of curricula, teacher qualifications and
supervision, pedagogical suppoit, and textbooks. As a consequence, in basic education only about
35 percent of the students complete the first level without repetition, 50 percent repeat at least
once, and 40 percent drop out; only about 153 students out of a pohort of 1 000 reach the 6th
grade as compared to 599 in Sub-Saharan Africa (1983). For the second levr-  camination
success rate has averaged 29 percent for the past eight .years.
2.9    Teaching conditions and time. Ihe inadequate and inappropriate physical conditions of
the teaching/learning process at all levels of the education system, described above, are
compounded at the basic education level by the daily triple-shift system used in the first three
yeas and the double-shift system thereafter. Consequently, the weekly time available for the
teaching/learning process is reduced to about 17 hours in the first three years and to 21 in the
fourth year, and to 25 hours in the second level and 25-30 hours in the last level. The
teacher/student ratios by level, although adequate (1:37 nadonaUy and 1:42 in Luanda in the first
level and 1:38 in the second and third) cannot compensate for the other factors.
2.10   Curricula and examinations. For the first level of basic education, curricula are not
available and the schools have only a study plan that provides during the first three years less than
two-thirds of the time to Portuguese and mathematics and less than half the time to those subjects
during the last year. For the second level, detailed curricula for general subjects were developed
at the central level but were not distnrbuted to the schools because of the scarcity of printing
resources and distnbution difficulties. The study plan for this level allocates 40 percent of the
time to Portuguese and mathematics, 30 percent to social and natural sciences, and the rest to
artistic and manual activities for which no content is defined. Examination success rates vary
widely from one year to the next (for the 6th grade, the success rate for the last 8 years ranges
from 18.6 to 41.4 percent); hence the validity of the examination items used and even their
relevance to what is being taught can be questioned. The third level is more diversified, with the
introduction of a foreign language and clearly identified subject matter. The Teacher Training
Colleges' curricula, because of their emphasis on general education, have an unnecessarily long
duration while limiting the level of teaching practice; their graduates (910 in 1989/90) chose
wherever possible to enroU in highe- education.
2.11  ITachers and supervision. The single most important factor contributing to the quality of
education is the qualification level of teachers. However, the Angolan education system, for
historical reasons, is not well endowed in this respect. In basic education, 81 percent of first-
level teachers have eight years of education or less; at the second level about 62 percent and at
the third about 50 percent are also under-qualified. School supervision and support to teachers
are very limited because of the low level of qualifications of the directors, their lack of training in
school management and leadership, and the reduced number and low qualifications of the
inspectors. MOE's recently created National Office for School Inspection has few resources,
hence the current prospects for development of supervision and improvement of tea".ng are
limited. Moreover, the economic situation with its impact on the purchasing power of a teacher's
salary, the scarcity of basic goods and the time needed to obtain them, as well as the poor



teaching conditions, have a negative effect on the commitment of teachers to their duties; this In
turn leads to a high level of absenteeism. However, recent measures taken by the Government
regarding salary increases, through wage monetization, are expected to have a positive impact on
the teachers' commitment to their work. Annex2. provides information on the exchange rate
and the Government's remonetization measures.
2.12   Eedag.Qgici naupor. The National Institute for Educational Research and Development
(Instituto Nacional para a Investigagao e Desenvolvimento da Educacao - INIDE), attached to the
Ministry of Education, was created In 1987 to develop curricula and related instructional
materials, pedagogical guides and textbooks, examinations and testing materials and to undertake
monitoring of the education system and pedagogical research. Because of its organizational and
staffing weaknesses, the Institute has not been able to accomplish much in these fields, except to
some extent for textbooks with bilateral assistance. 'Me current Pedagogical and Scientific
Council, whose purpose is to set INDE's policy guidelines and programs and monitor Its
outcomes, and the Directorate Council, which translates these guidelines and programs into
operating policies and projects, are composed of practically the same members under the
leadership of INIDE's Director. At the substantive level, coUaboration between the Institute and
tho-Ministry's Inspectorate and HIES is limited, and there is no involvement or consultation of
=qualified teachers on INIDE's work. The number of qualified national staff is limited and the mix
of skills quite narrow, with no specialists available for curriculum development, measurement and
evaluation. Annex 2.6 provides additional information on INDE.
2.13   Textbooks are the second most important factor affecting the quality of education.
However, in Angola they are scarce in the classrooms. Textbook availability in first-level schools
was estimated at an average of five students per book. AU books prescribed for use are published
by MOE through WDE, which has developed about 50 percent of the publishing program of
about 68 titles for basic education, the number and relevance of which are questionable. No
textbooks have been published for post-basic education. INIDE, although responsible for writing
*    and publishing textbooks, has no trained editors, designers or production managers. Most
textbooks date from the immediate post-independence period and are in urgent need of revision.
Two parastatal companies are responsible: the first (EDIMEL) for printing textbooks locally and
abroad and for their distribution and sales in the country's 10 northern provinces, and the second
(EMATEB) only for distributing and selling textbooks in the southern provinces. In 1988190
about 3.3 million basic education textbooks were printed, of which about 0.5 million were printed
loc'Iy; however, EDIMEL's capacity for procurement is limited. Official selling prices to the
students were quite low (about US$0.75 for a textbook In Portuguese), but textbooks were more
available in the parallel market at higher prices (about US$15). However, it is expected that the
recent devaluation will reduce these price distortions and make textbooks more accessible to
students. In post-basic education, the lack of textbooks Is a serious problem for both students and
teachers. Moreover, there are no school libraries. The university system operates almost without
any textbooks.
3. Educatfon-Management
2.14   Since the country's independence in 1975, the education system has undergone a number
of evolutionary stages. From a highly centralized system, present-day arrangements allow for a
certain amount of autonomy at the provincial and municipal levels (para. 2.1). Nonetheless, the
system is large and complex, and managerial and planning capacities generally have not kept pace
with growth. Education managers, even at the central level, have limited trining in policy
analysis and management; central administrative entities suffer from an overlapping of



responsibilities and a limited defnitdon of administrative prccedures. Decisions are based on
insufficient quantitative and qualitative data and studies; MOE lacks a capacity for civil works
monitoring and procurement and communications between the different management levels are
poor. As in many other sub-Saharan African countries, ineffective organizational structures,
under- developed managerial and planning capacities, and poor information systems limit the
capacity to monitor both the efficiency and effectiveness of resource allocation and usage as well
as educational programs and to address identified issues.
2.15   Administrative staff. One of the main constraints facing management of the education
sector is the inadequate level of professional training of administrative staff, including school
directors and inspectors, with consequent inefficiencies at all levels of education administration -
central, provincial, municipal and individual schools. Most staff with administrative functions are
teachers nominated to these positions without relevant.additional training. In addition, access to
school inspector and director positions is not the result of selection and training. A school for the
training of administrators was created in 1980 but is not ablc to function because of inadequate
definition of objectives and design and a limited pool of training staff. Annex 2.7 provides basic
data on training needs.
2.16   Cenaa level. At the central level, the Ministry of Education has evolved from a small
depai"ment to a large and complex institution responsible for primary, secondary and higher
education, teacher training, technical and vocational training, curriculum development,
examinations, materials production, planning, project preparation and implementation, and
monitoring and evaluation. Preoccupation with the growth of the education system and its day-to-
day management has meant that considerable time and effort have been spent on short-term
problems at the expense of policy analysis and longer-term planning and development. The
statistical base of the Ministry, so critical for informing operational, policy and pl=a!Ag
decisions, is particularly weak; it does not include data on the cost of education inputs other than
that provided in published government budget figures. Moreover, there is little systematic
information on aggregate efficiency measures s"ch as school attendance and dropout and repetition
rates. Furthermore, the capacity to monitor both the efficiency and effectiveness of the different
programs and resources within the education system and to address the identified issues is weak.
2.17 Provincial and municipal delegations. At present, one of the main responsibilities of the
regional delegations is to transmit information between the schools and MOE. Although
decentralization is a stated Government priority for the sector, clear objectives and an action plan
have yet to be developed with regard to school mapping, financial management, management of
teacher assignments, in-service training, and leadership for quality improvement. A higher level
of delegation in these matters, combined with better-defined procedures and reliable
communications, would tenainly improve local resource allocation and use and also create
conditions for quality improvement. Annex 2.8 provides background information on the main
directorates and provincial delegations of Luanda.
4. Higher education
2.18   Enrollment in AgstinhoNetoUnive     (ANU) has grown from about 1,405 in 1975 to
5,732 in 1986, at an annual tate of 13.6 percent. In 1989, total enrollment was about 6,250.
However, because of the limited physical and teaching capacity, not all the demand for access is
being met (70 percent acceptance rate in 1988). In 1989 the university produced 255 graduates,
of whom 22 were from the Faculty of Economics and 32 from HES.



-7-
2.19 The Faculty of Economics and the Faculty of Law are the only two faculties represented
in all three campuses, Luanda, Huambo and Lubango. The Faculty of Economics In Luanda Is
the main faculty, with a total enrollment in 1990/91 of about 1,050 students (15 percent of the
university's total student population). The Faculties of Economics in Huambo and Lubango
function precariously because of the low number of resident teachers compared to their needs,
although teachers from Luanda are regularly dispatched to fill the gap through intensive courses.
2.20 The University is confronted with many problems. These Include a limited number of
full-time teachers. In 1988/89 the teaching staff comprised about 452 Angolans and 200
foreigners, of whom 170 and 20, respectively, worked part-time, and many classes were taught
by advanced students (monitores); moreover, from both an academic and professional point of
view, many of the teachers, both national and foreign, are underijualified. Courses, especially in
the liberal arts, lay heavy stress on ideology to the dettiment of analytic and technical skills; little
scientific or social research is undertaken or published by ANU's teaching staff. Compared to
demand (para. 2.8), there are related shortages of classrooms and laboratories; libraries are few,
wkh limited book selection, and much of the available naterial is in foreign languages; hence,
most of the reading material consists of class notes distributed by professors or of translated
ex*rpts of relevant foreign books. Because of the low efficiency level of both primary and
secondary education, the average age of students is quite high and most of them (about 95
percent) are part-time students and in many cases their previous schooling is not adequate.
Meanwhile, though information on internal efficiency is very scarce, what exists suggests that
promotion rates vary between 40 and 80 percent in different faculties. Also, the university's
management information system is not adequately organized to allow for a comprehensive
'collection and processing of information relevant to policy analysis and related measures. The
Faculty of Economics shares most of these problems and particularly a traditional curriculum and
a low number of qualified teachers: of Its 36 professors, only five have a PhD or Master's
degree.
5. Financing. Bud,etin, and Costs
2.21 gbliLflnanmg. Angola provides free public education at all levels of study, including
secondary technical education and higher education. Confronted with a rapidly increasing school-
age population and a high social demand for education, the Government has been under pressure
to allocate sufficient public funds to finance the rapidly growing education system. Yet, the war
situation in which the country was entangled for about 16 years did not allow the Government to
allocate sufficient funds to the education sector. In 1991, MOE's recurrent budget was about Kz
29.5 billion out of a total government recurrent budget of about Kz 236.6 billion (about 12.5
percent of the total), a rise from 8.5 percent during the previous year. Meanwhile, in 1989 the
investment budget allocation to MOE was Kz 1.2 billion out of a total government investment
budget of Kz 24.2 billion (about 5 percent of the total investment budget). In 1991, only Kz 0.95
billion has been allocated to MOE within the investment budget and this represents only about
3.2 percent of the total government investment budget. Because of the Ministry's need for the
import of educational materials, furniture and equipment, and as Is the case for other ministries, a
significant fraction of its investment budget (11.3 percent) is in foreign exchange to be used
through the Ministry of Finance.
2.22 There is no cost recovery at the present time for either general or technical education, but
a training levy for vocational training is under consideration. Meanwhile, in some sectors, efforts
have been made to mobilize alternative resources for sector-specific training. This Is the case In
the petroleum sector, for example, where the Ministry of Petroleum levies a tax on petroleum



-8-
production for training; the rate of this tax is US$0.15 per barrel produced. For a total
production of about 500,000 barrels per day, revenues from this tax exceed US$20 million per
annum, an amount that surpasses the training needs of the Ministry of Petroleum. The Ministry
of Education Is trying to get a share of this revenue to improve its training programs. This issue
will be discussed with the Government under the manpower and training sector work.
2.23 Private financing and cost recovery. There is no effective policy framework to promote
the private financing of education, including shifting costs to the users. There are no registration
fees or school fees even though students are required to provide their own school materials. The
Government has expressed its willingness to encourage the private financing of education
(para. 2.27).
2.24   Unit costs. Within the limitations of a distorted exchange rate, of US$1 for about Kz 60
as compared to US$1 for Kz 780 in the parallel market, the UNESCO preparation mission's
estimates of unit costs per student for 1989/90 were as follows: for basic education, Kz 5,723 for
the first level, Kz 9,271 for the second and Kz 11,962 for the third, equivalent to about US$96,
154 and 200 at the official exchange rate and about US$7.3, US$12 and US$15, respectively; for
primary teacher training, Kz 35,242 (US$587 and US$45) and for general secondary education,
Kz 5,886 (US$18 and US$7.5). For higher education, the average unit cost for the university
was estimated for 1984 at Kz 105,500, equivalent to US$3637 at an exchange rate at that time of
about US$1 for Kz 29; at the parallel exchange rate, the unit cost was only US$132. All the real
costs are well below the corresponding average unit costs in Africa, which in 1983/84 amounted
to US$48 for primary, US$223 for secondary and US$2,710 for higher education.
C.    The Government's Sectoral Strategy and Investments
2.25  Thetatey. Considering the wide range of issues facing the education sector and its
importance in the provision of much-needed trained human resources, in 1987 the country's
political authorities requested that MOE undertake studies for the development of a new
framework for the education system. This was a first step in the development of a sectoral
approach to the adjustment of the education system and the rehabilitation, revitalization and
progressive expansion, which the country's re-established peace and prospective stability have
now made possible. In 1990, MOE finalized its Reform of the Education System (Reformulagao
do Systema de Educagao e Ensino - RSEE). The proposal consists of a new structure, described
below.
(a) Gend educ       Primary education for six years, at the end of which there will be
a national examination, followed by lower and upper secondary levels of education for three years
each, at the end of which national examinations will be also taken.
(b) YocationaL and tchnical educatio: Vocational education for two years following
successful completion of primary education, and two levels of technical education, the first for
three years following primary education and the second for three years following successful
completion of lower secondary education.
(c) Teacher training: Primary teacher training for three years following completion of
primary education, with graduates qualified to teach only in the first four years of primary
education; medium-level teacher training for four years following successful completion of lower
secondary education, with graduates qualified to teach at both primary oast two years) and lower



-9-
secondary; and finally upper secondary teacher training, provided at the university level, for
three and five years.
2.26 In 1990, a Presidential Decree created the Higher Education Reform Commission. headed
by the Rector of Agostinho Neto University, with the objective of evaluating the utiversity,
identifying the main issues, and making recommendations. Its work is still underway.
2.27   As part of the country's shift towards a liberalized economy, as well as the Government's
awareness of the enormous task posed by the rehabilitation and revitalization of the education
system, a Decree was issued in June 1991 allowing the creation of grivate educaon and setting
the conditions for its participation in the overall revitalization effort.
2.28   Assessment and financial feasiblit,,y of ie.sthergy. Assment. Although the proposed
RSSE (para. 2.25) is basically sound, there were still some inefficient aspects remaining from the
previous system: first, the continued use of subject matter teachers in the last two years of the
new primary level and second, the level of recruitment and length of training of primary and
lower secondary school teachers. These aspects were adjusted following discussions during
proect development as folows: use of one teacher for all subjects In primary and reduction of
teacher's training to one year for both primary and lower secondary; however, during the
transitory period between the current and new system secondary education system, the training
would be of two years, the first aiming at strengthening general education (para. 3.5). Financial
feasibility. Within the constraints of available data, particularly regarding the financial part, the
basic assumptions for computing the financial impact and overall feasibility of the Government's
strategy over a 10-year period, discussed during project appraisal, are as follows: (a) the focus of
development of the new six-year primary school system would be on quality so as to reduce by 75
percent the number of school years needed to produce a primary school graduate (para. 2.8); this
would be achieved by decreasing repetition and dropout rates through the retraining of half the
existing under-qualified teachers (pm. 2.11), foUowed by a 30 percent increase in their salary;
(b) aU new teachers would be required to be fully qualified; (c) more teaching materials would be
made available to students; and (d) the number of daily shifts would be reduced to two. The
introduction of these measures requires a growth of 8.7 percent annually of the primary education
budget. As a result of the need to develop the secondary education system and of the expected
growth and increase of Interna efficiency in primary education (enrollment would increase by 5
percent and outputs by 13 percent yearly), the secondary education budget would expand by about
6 percent per year. However, the university budget would increase by only about 1 percent since
there are possibilities for a significant increase in efficiency, including through rationalization of
the social expenditures on students, which amount to about 58 percent of the teaching budget.
Assuming that in addition to the above the Government's total recurrent budget grows at 3 percent
annually in real terms, the proposed sector srategy will caU for an increase of the education
system's budget share from the current 12.5 percent to about 16 percent by the year 2001, a ratio
that is average for the region. The investment budget needed to keep pace with population
growth and eliminate a third shift wil require, at today's construction prices (para. 3.19) around
US$15 million per year for the next five years and approximately US$25 million per year for
succeeding years. Because of the lack of information, these calculations do not take into account
the potential growth and share of the private sector which should play an Important role in
education development. These assumptions and results should be reviewed and adjusted along
with the availability of updated economic and educational data. Funds are provided under the
project to improve the strategy frameworlk  Amn  2.2 provides information on the computing
methodology and results.



- 10 -
2.29  Investmept. MOE's current program of nvestments is composed of: (a) construction and
equipping of a Middle-Level Economic Institute (Instituto Medio de Economia) in Luanda and a
Middle-Leve) Agriculture Institute (Instituto Medio Agrario) in Malange through a First Education
Project of US$22.0 million, financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and expected to
be completed by early 1992; (b) construction and equipping of a Normal Institute of Educadon in
Lubango and a Middle-Level Agriculture Institute (Instituto Medic, de Agrario) in Huambo, and
rehabilitation of the Higher Institute of Educational Sciences (HIES) in Lubango, (c) strengthening
of the Distance Training Center in Luanda through a Second Education Project financed by AfDB
; (d) rehabilitation, equipment and teacher traiing for the Mfiddle- Level Agriculture Institute
(Instituto Medio Agrario) in Tchivinguir, and re-equipment, development of curricula and teacber
training for the Middle-Level Industrial Institute (Instituto Medio Industrial) in Luanda through a
project to be financed by the European Community for an amount of US$8.0 million equivalent;
and (e) equipment for 30 primary and secondary schools and teacher training colleges in the
Provinces of Benguela, Bie, Cabinda and Luanda through possible Brazilian bilateral financing of
US$40.0 million equivalent. The Ford Foundation is also financing the revision and updating of
the Faculty of Economics curricula. In addition, MOE. benefits from small French, Portuguese,
British and Australian financed projects targeted to improvement of the methodology for the
teaching of their respective languages, and from UNDP for vocational training and UNFPA for
population education.
D.    The Bank Group's Role
2.30  Cunt assistance strategy. As Angola only recently joined the Bank Group (in
September 1989), the relationship between the Bank Group and the Government is still at an
incipient stage. Since then, however, three IDA credits have been approved, for a total of
US$102.9 miUion equivalent: the Economic Management Capacity Building Project for US$23.0
million, the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project for US$37.7 million, and the Lobito
Benguelta Urban, Environmental and Rehabilitation Project for US$42.2 million. The Bank
Group's objectives in Angola are to help promote economic growth, improve the poor social
conditions of most of Angolan and ensure that the country's environment is protected. To achieve
these goals, the Bank is following a strategy which emphasizes (a) building capacity in economic
management; (b) preparing studies to pave the way for investments which will help get the
economy back on its feet; (c) helping rehabilitate the country's devastated infrastructure base; (d)
promoting human capital development programs and activities to improve social condtitons for the
poor, especially women and children; (d) safeguarding the environment; and (e) supporting the
process of economic reform by helping in the design and implementadon of macroeconomic and
sector policies needed to stabilize and restore production incentives, particularly for the private
sector.
2.31  IDA's education lendinif strategy. The rehabilitation and development of the education
sector in Angola consdtute a major challenge, particularly during a period of much needed
stabilization of the economy. The first priority (supported by the proposed first education project)
is to eliminate major inefficiencies, build up the capacity of the Ministry of Education to manage
the system and prepare a comprehensive rehabilitation program for the sector. Assuming good
progress in the stabilization of the economy, and in the implementation of the three above 'first
priority' objectives, MDA would then help mobilize resources from donors and private sector for
the large scale. rehabilitation, revitalization and expansion of the education system.



- 11 -
m. THE PROJECT
A.    project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project objectives are to help the Government start correcting the major inefficiencies
in the education sector and prepare a strategy for its overali rehabilitation, revitalization and
progressive expansion. The Project would help Angola by (a) setting up a demonstration model
for education through improvement of the quality of inputs aad physical conditions of teaching
while implementing the new education structure; (b) enhancing sector management capacity; (c)
improving the quality of economic training and strengthening the information system of the
university; and (4) preparing a strategy for the overall rehabilitation, revitalization and
progressive expansion of the education system and undertaking preparatory work for future
investments.
1. De        n Model for Educatfon
3.2   To help improve the quatity and conditions of teaching while implementing the new
edqcation structure, the project would (a) strergthen the National Institute for Educational
Research and Development to enable it to carry out its functions of producing relevant curricula,
teaching materials, examinations, and evaluation systems; (b) provide textbooks for the
demonstration model and secondary schools; (c) establish a prototype Primary Teachers college
and (d) rehabilitate and construct primary and secondary schools, to be organized along the lines
of the proposed new structure;
3.3    National Institute for Educational Research and 2evelolment aIND, The project would
strengthen INIDE's technical capacity to carry out the work needed to adapt the curricula to the
new structure, progressively develop the related teaching materials, and set up the examination
and evaluation systems. To this end, INDE would be reorganied to consist of an Administrative
Council, responsible for overall management of the Institute, and a Scientific Council, responsible
for reviewing the quality of INDE's output and for making related recommendations to the
Administrative Council. The Administrative Council would provide general orientation and
review the objectives, medium-term work plans, and annual work programs and olutcomes, as
well as budgets; it would be headed by the Vice-Minister for General Education and include the
relevant Directors of the Ministry, a head of a provincial delegation, two inspectors, the Director
of HIES, and a representative of the Ministry of Finance. The Scientific Council would be
headed by the Director of INIDE and be composed of about 8-10 specialists and professionals
from HIES, the university, and inspectors and principals from each educational level. INIDE
would include the three functional departments of Studies and Evaluations; Curricula and
Teaching Materials, which would include management of textbook production; and
Documentation, Information and Diffusion. INIDE's contribution to development of the
demonstration model would be undertaken through the timely realization of four programs: the
fkL geared towards primary education, would consist of adaptation of the curricula, focusing on
fumdamental subject matter (Portuguese, mathematics and sciences, including topics on
environment, health and nutrition), and development of instuctional guidelines, teaching materias
and evaluation instruments; the eond and ,k programs would focus on lower and upper
secondary education, and the fouh on the Teacher Training CoUeges - all with the same
objectives as the first program regarding their respective levels. The project would finance: (a) a
limited rehabilitation of INIDE's offices; (b) furniture, equipment and vehicles; (c) specialist
services; (d) training localy and abroad; and (e) incremental operatig costs.



-12-
3.4   Txtboolk. Taking into account the scarcity of trainable staff, the project would also
assist INIDE in initiating the development,in phases, of a capacity to adapt and publish textbooks
and instructional materials. The project would also provide textbools and library books for the
project's post-primary demonstration model schools and the new Primaiy Teachers College (para.
3.5), as well as textbooks for the upper secondary schools. This assistance would be through a
twofold approach: (a) development of a technical capability to establish pedagogical specifications
for and evaluate textbooks; and (b) the procurement of textbooks and library books to meet the
needs of the project's post-primary demonstration schools, including the new Primary Teachers
College, and textbooks for the upper secondary schools. Within this framework, INDE would
establish during the first year of the project a Teaching Materials Division within the Curricula
and Teaching Materials Department, and procure (a) Portuguese, mathematics, science, English
and French textbooks for the lower secondary schools and the transition first grade (equivalent to
9th grade) of the Teacher Training College; (b) Portuguese, mathematics, science, physics,
chemistry, English and French textbooks for the upper secondary schools; these textbooks,
expected to be used for about five years, would be rented yearly to students for the oquivalent of
one-fifth their cost, or an average of Kz 1,650 (about US$3), to be used for the procurement of
collective teaching materials and for overall functioning of the schools, including routine
m qjtenance; and (c) library books for the post-primary demonstration schools, including the new
Primary Teachers CoUege. INDE would train teachers in textbook use and in the establishing
and functioning of school libraries. The technical assistant for textbooks would be responsible for
textbook tendering documentation and processing. The project would finance: (a) the acquisition
of about 53,000 textbooks and 6,500 library bools, (b) specialist services for textbook
procurement, and (c) training abroad in textbook evaluation and pedagogical specifications. SQa
to nQdationa, the government provided IDA with the draft of the legal text reorganizing
INDE. During negotato, the Government gave assurances that it would (a) by January 31,
1993 at the latest, assign to INDE three additional technical staff with qualifications acceptable to
IDA; and (b) by December 31, 1993, provide IDA with the revised primary and teacher training
curricula, and by June 30, 1994, with the lower and upper secondary curricula. Prior to credit
efectiveness, the Government would provide IDA with satisfactory evidence that INUDE has been
legally reorganized, in accordance with terms agreed upon during negotiations.
3.5   Prm=  teacher tinig. As part of the adjustment of the primary education system, the
Direccao National de Forma;ao de Quadros de Ensino - DNFQE (Department of Training of
Educational Staff) would reorganize primary teacher training so as to focus on its primary
objective, which is professional training (para. 2.11). Consequently, the current duration of
training would be reduced to one year following recruitment of trainees at the end of the planned
lower secondary school (9th grade). During the transiton period between the existing and
adjusted general education system, teacher trainees would be recruited at the end of basic
education (8th grade) and training in the Primary Teachers Colleges would be for two years, the
first to compensate for the 9th grade and the second for professional training, which would
represent 80 percent of the available time per week, Including 24 percent for a hands-on class.
To ensure teachers training practice, one of the project's rehabilitated primay schools is planned
to be the application school of the Primary Teachers College. The project would finance the
construction, furnishing and equipping of a Primary Teachers College in Luanda and training
abroad.  hri        n , the Government gave assurances that by September 30, 1993, it
would transmit to IMA the legal text establishing the statute for the new type of Primary Teachers
Colleges and related primary application schools.
3.6   School rehabilitation Ed constuction. To set the physical framework for both the
implementation of the new education structure and the improvement of teaching conditions while



- 13 -
contributing to a limited expansion of enrollments, particularly at the post-primary level (para.
2.7), the project would finance in Luanda Province: the rehabilitation of three and construction of
four primay schools and provide their furniture and equipment; the rehabilitation of four and
construction of one lower secondary school and the construction of one upper secondary school,
together with their furniture and equipment. These schools are designed to meet the operating
requirements of the education system's new structure; in addition, they would apply the new
curricula and examinations developed by INMDE, including limitation of the daily shifts to two. At
Annex 3.1fa) is a list of all the schools and institutions tu be rehabilitated/constructed and their
size Prior to negotiations, the Government provided IDA with a draft Policy Statement confirming
its commitment to (a) the adjustment of the education system along the lines agreed with IMA
during project appraisal; and (b) application of the new 6-3-3 structure in all the new schools,
independently of their financing source, and limitation of the daily shifts to two shifts in these
schools. Prior to Board presentation, the Governmentprovided IDA with its Policy Statement on
the.education reform as agreed upon during negotiations.(Annex 3.1(b)).
2. Educational Management
3.7..  To strengthen the management capacity of the education sector, the project would:
(a) develop a capacity for the training of the sector's administrators; (b) improve the central
institutions'capabiities for data collection, planning, budgeting and financial management, and
material and human resources management; and (c) assist MOE in its efforts toward
decentralization through strengthening the capacity of the provincial and municipal delegations for
planning and financial management. The project would strengthen the directorates and services
responsible for planning, budgeting and monitoring of expenditures, staff management, and the
management information system of MOE. The program would start in Luanda Province;
however, to ensure that the characteristics and constraints of the other provinces are taken into
account in the formulation and implementation of the project and that its benefits can subsequently
be transferred to the other provinces, implementation is planned as of year 3 of project
implementation in three provinces to be selected in accordance with criteria allowing
representation of the greatest possible geographical and social diversity. In light of the above, the
project would concentrate on the areas described below.
3.8    Training of administrative staff. To provide, first, for in-service and later the initial
training of the administrative and pedagogical staff required for the revitalization and
improvement of overall management of the education system, the project would assist in
establishing a sector administrative training capacity. Specifically, this would be a capacity to
undertake the training of targeted staff in specific knowledge and skills through (a) identification
of the priority functions, beneficiary groups and training needs, starting with the proposed
project's implementation needs; (b) definition of the objectives, time span, prerequisites, content
of training modules, and training organization; and (c) training, as needed, of prospective contract
instructors in specific managerial and pedagogical domains. In light of both the magnitude and
urgency of the sector's needs (para. 2.15), the training should be well targeted and relatively
short (3 to 6 months). It should be organized in two training streams of six months each for
administrators and inspectors, in parallel with two shorter and more specific training period (2 to
6 weeks) that address specific needs. The main general training areas would include pedagogical
supervision, school management and leadership; evaluation and examinations; education statistics
and planning; school mapping; budgeting; and provincial, municipal and school accounting. All
technical assistance and beneficiaries of training abroad financed under the project would
contribute to training. It is planned for training to start on an experimental basis as soon as the
above tasks are sufficiently advanced to allow it, even before completion of the Administrative



- 14-
Training Center described below. The project would finance: (a) the c. astruction, furnishing and
equipping of an Administrative Training Center with a capacity of 120 places able to
accommodate four training streams at the same time (this center would also provide dormitory
space for 60 trainees and share a library with the neauby new Primary Teachers College); (b)
specialist services for the definition, packaging and organization of training; (c) training locally
and abroad for the center's management staff; and (d) incremental operating costs. D-uring
DLhotiafigns, the Government gave assurances that it would (a) by February 1, 1993 at the latest,
select an official, to head the Administrative Training Center, with qualifications acceptable to
IDA; (b) by September 1, 1993, submit to MDA the training program for the first year of training
operations, as well as the proposed corresponding budget; and (c) ensure that all project contracts
for the recruitment of specialists include a covenant regarding their contribution to the training of
Angolan staff.
3.9..  Educationalplaning. In order to reinforce the capacity for policy analysis and
development, educational planning, financial planning/cost monitoring, and the monitoring of the
MOE program, the Planning Department would be organized and staffed to better assume the
tasks stemning from its responsibilities and to follow up with the GEPP (para. 3.28) the studies
fiSced under the project and related policy analysis regarding the Government's strategy for the
sector. The Planning Department needs to (a) develop a master chart for undertaking,
contributing to and monitoring of the planned studies and operations in priority areas
(improvement of educational statistics, school mapping related to the restructuring of the
education system, cost and financing, specific sub-sectoral studi. R) and for identifying problems of
efficiency and effectiveness at the central and provincial levels; (b) define the objectives and
develop a system for the collection and processing of data needed for the master chart, including
Improvement of the reliability and timing of the publication and analysis of education statistics; (c)
plan a system for disseminating the processed data and outcome of the studies to ensure their
utilization in decision-making; and (d) formulate an operational plan for the development of
expertise and skills in planning techniques and data processing for the planning staff. The project
would finance specialist services, training abroad, equipment, and incremental operating costs for
the Department of Planning.
3. 10  Finamial managu=. To promote the budgeting function as a tool for the realization,
within the annlal plan/budget, of the sector development priorities, the project would help
introduce new budgeting practices on the basis of the following: (a) carrying out a study of the
current operations of the Budget directorate; (b) formulating a plan for the gradual development
of functions and tasks falling within its mandate or functionally incumbent upon the Budget
Directorate but not being carried out now; (c) preparing a plan for sharing responsibilities as
regards budget planning and budget control between the ministerial level and the provincial
education delegations; (d) developing a master chart for the monitoring and evaluation of
budgedng operations and budget control at the central and provincial levels; and (e) training for
personnel in the Budget Directorate in accounting and financial control techniques. The project
would (a) help develop the technical know-how of personnel in the Budget Directorate; and (b)
improve data collection and processing. The project would therefore finance specialist services,
training abroad and locally, eqipment, and incremental operating costs. Durinz neoiatios the
Government gave asurances that, by March 31, 1993, it would reinforce the MOE's Budget
Directorate with two additional technical staff, with qualifications acceptable to IDA.
3.11 tHuman  murwmanagemen. To strengthen the various aspects of personnel
management and thus increase the level of staff satisfaction while also ensuring the efficient use of
resources, MOE's Human Resources Department would (a) evaluate existing human resource



- 15 -
management entities and processes, including those for data collection and processing, and
propose modifications or, as appropriate, necessary additions, including linkages with the
Planning Department; (b) on the basis of (a), plan the functdons of the Human Resources
Department and its counterparts at the provincial and municipal levels; (c) formulate a draft
general policy progressively with the corresponding regulations, for the management of human
resources in education (administrative and teaching personnel), giving particular attention to the
staffing of schools, assignment standards, career and promotion opportunities, and working
conditions; and (d) formulate an operational plan for the development of expertise and skills in
human resource management techniques for Department staff. The project would finance
specialist services, training abroad and locally, equipment, and incremental operating costs.
Puring negtiations, the Government gave assurances that by March 31, 1993, it would reinforce
MOE's Human Resources Department with two additional technical staff, with qualifications
acceptable to IDA.
3.12   Pysicl ad material management. The responsibilities of the Office of Studies, Planning
and Projects (Gabinete de Estudos, Planos e Projectos -. .GEPP), which is directly attached to the
Minister, are essentially planning and coordination of all activities leading to the restructuring and
development of the education system. It is also responsible for the preparation of investments,
including those financed by external donors. However, no entity is responsible for
implementation and monitoring of the physical and material aspects of these projects, as well as
the management and maintenance of the Ministry's school infrastructure. Hence, GEPP would be
enlarged to cater for these functions through the creation within it of a Division of Construction
and Equipment (DCE), which would be responsible for the implementation of the proposed
project. During preparation, the functions, responsibilities and staffing of DCE were defined in
this first step, mainly in relation to project implementation. However, the planned training
program aims at preparing the conditions for frLther development. To strengthen GEPP's
*        capacity for overall planning and management of the education reform, as well as for providing
guidance in external financing, the project would finance 36 man-months of specialist services
(Senior Advisor to the Director of GEPP). Because of the scarcity of housing in Luanda, the
project would also finance seven houses for the technical assistants (US$445,000 for works and
equipment of which US$ 390,000 under PPF) in addition to the inputs for developing a project
implementation capacity (para. 3.28).
3.13   Prvncial level. A main project goal is to strengthen decentralized management
capacities by improving management at the provincial and municipal delegations of education to
permit a better allocation of funds and control of resource use at the regional and school levels, as
weU as better pedagogical support for teachers and better monitoring of the quality of instruction.
The project therefore aims to: (a) establish a formal sharing of authority and responsibilities
between the central and provincial levels on the basis of criteria of efficiency and effectiveness In
achieving the objectives of the education system, given the characteristics the Angolan situation;
and (b) establish an action plan for progressively implementing this sharing of authority and
responsibilities. The project would (a) carry out a diagnostic study of the current span, level and
conditions of decentralization, as well as further possibilities in the management of the of the
education system's revitalization, and formulate the objectives, requirements and preconditions for
improving and/or expanding decentralization of responsibilities; and (b) formulate an action plan
for experimentadon of the recommendations of the study and their gradual implementation
following the trial period.



- 16-
3. Higher education
3.14   In order to improve the teaching of economics and prepare for addressing development
and efficiency issues in higher education, the project would increase the quality of inputs at the
faculty of economics and enhance the university management information system.
3.15   Faculty of Economics. The Government's recent move from a centrally planned to a
market-oriented economy implies major changes in the area of economics training; specifically,
there is need to retrain teachers and reform curricula in the schools of economics. The
Government has already undertaken a reform of the Faculty of Economics curricula, which are
planned to be introduced in the 1992/93 school year. The Government has also begun the
retraining of professors of economics through IDA's assistance Wider the Economic Management
Capacity Building Project. The proposed project woul4 complement that effort by concentrating
on upgrading the existing professors' qualifications and improving other quality inputs. It would:
(a) undertake a program to upgrade the qualifications of the professors of the Faculty of
Economics; (b) provide training for the Faculty's administrative staff; (c) reorganize the Faculty
library and provide relevant books in economics and management, subscribe to international
jougnals, and develop a computerized data-processing capability; and (d) provide firniture and
equipment for classrooms, administrative offices and the Faculty library. The project would
finance specialist services, training locally and abroad, furniture and equipment, and incremental
operating costs. Durine negotiations, the Government gave assurances that by February 1, 1993,
at the latest, it would establish as the criteria for the award of the project long-term fellowships:
previous full-time teaching in the Faculty of Economics for at least one year, commitment to full
time teaching in the Faculty upon return from training for a period equivalent to tw;ce that of the
training, and enrollment in a master's or doctorate program of study.
3.16 The university's management information system. To improve the information basis for
policy analysis and decision-making at the university and to prepare the conditions for an
increased efficiency in the allocation and use of existing resources, the project would: (a)
streamline the organization of its administrative and technical services; (b) rationalize the existing
data collection process and progressively expand it into an integrated management information
system; (c) provide training for administrative personnel; and (d) provide equipment for the
relevant services. The project would finance specialist services, training locally and abroad,
equipment, and incremental operating costs.
4. Studies and Preparation of Future Investments
3.17   Studies. The rehabilitation, revitalization and progressive expansion of the education
system in Angola constitute a huge task for the years ahead for both the Government and the
donor community. Efforts should be well coordinated and the development of the sector policy
framework should be carried out while taking into account the need to involve or keep informed
the donor community. The project would provide funds to undertake (a) a review of the
organization and functioning of MOE and prepare recommendations for increased effectiveness;
Considering the urgency of the task, this will be undertaken with PPF financing; (b) an analysis
of higher education and development of the strategy, programs and main operational policies for
its adjustment; (c) an assessment of the potential role and contribution of the private sector to
educational development and the institutional and financial arrangements to encourage it; (d) a
cost and financing study of the education sector, the updating and refinement of financing
strategies, and definition of the pace of the rehabilitation, revitalization and expansion of the
education system; (e) a study of teacher training needs and the preparation of a program for the



-17-
reorganization of the Teacher Training Colleges In accordance with the new structure; (f) a school
mapping and pedagogical organization of the post-primary education system in relation to the new
structure; and (g) development of an investment program to be submitted to donors. Prearation
of futurA investment rE,ot: In addition, the project would provide funds for the preparation of
future investment projects, some of which could be financed by IDA. During nlegotiations, the
Govermment gave assurances that it would (a) state in its policy letter that it is committed to the
reorganization of MOE along the recommendations of the related study; (b) undertake by
November 1 of each year an annual GovernmentlIDA review of the draft investments and
recurrent education budgets to ensure the application and financing of the reform; (c) by May 30,
1995 at the latest, undertake with IMA a mid-term review to assess progress in achieving the
project development objectives; and (d) to facilitate this review, prepare by April 15, 1995 at the
latest a mid-term project review document to be furnished four weeks prior to the review to IDA
and all departments and agencies iAvolved in project im.plementation. During this review the
results and proposed strategies developed by the studies (b), (c) and (d) described above would
also be discussed.
B.    Project Costs and Financing
- . Project Costs
3.18 Summnar of proiect costs. The project costs, including taxes and duties (para. 3.20), are
estimated at Kz 17,176 million, or US$31.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$25.3 million. Taxes and duties are estimated at US$1.0 million. These costs
include civil works (rehabilitation and new construction) and related professional services;
frniture, equipment, vehicles and textbooks; specialist services and training locally and abroad;
incremental operating costs; and funds for studies and the preparation of fiiture investments. The
esdmated cost distrbution of costs by project component is shown in Table 3.1, and the
Financing Plan in Table 3.2. Tables showing the main project summary accounts are in AMnn



- 18 -
TABLE-3L: Project Costs Summarv
A. DEMONSTRATION MODEL
FOR EDUCATION
1. INIDE                        0.1          0.8      0.9         93.5      3.2
2. Textbooks                    0.2          0.7      0.9         73.0       3.3
3. INE                          0.2           0.7     0.9         81.6       3.3
4. Construction & Rehab.        2.8           9.7    12.5         77.9      49.6
SUB-TOTAL     3.3    *-   11.9    15.2          78.3      55.7
B. EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
1. Administ. Trng. Center       1.1          1.2      2.3         52.1      8.3
2. Strengthening MOE            0.1          3.1      3.2         96.2      11.7
SUB-TOTAL     1.2           4.3      5.5        78.1      20.1
C. HIGHER EDUCATION
1. Fac. of Economics            0.1          2.0      2.1        94.8       7.9
2. MIS Higher Education         0.1           1.2     1.3         92.4       4.9
SUB-TOTAL     0.2           3.2      3.4        94.1      12.5
D. PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES          0.0           0.4     0.4         91.2       1.6
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT              0.3           2.4     2.7         88.5      10.1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS          5.0         22.3    27.3          81.7    100.0
Physical Contingencies        0.4           1.3     1.6         77.7      5.9
Price Contingencfes           0.5           1.8     2.3        76.5       8.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           5.9         25.3    31.2         81.1     114.3
3.19   Basis of cost estimates. Technical assistance (TA) costs (about 15.1 percent of project
costs) are based on recent costs for comparable TA under UNDP standards for Angola. The
costs are estimated as follows: (a) specialist services, US$150,000 per annum; consultants,
US$15,000 per month; (b) fellowships abroad, US$25,800 for nine months; (c) round trip
travel abroad, US$6,600; and (d) local training, US$25 per day and US$250 for travel. The
costs of civil works for rehabilitation/construction are estimated by square meter: (a) for the
new primary and lower secondary schools, about US$515; for the new secondary schools,
about US$525; for the Teacher Training College, about US$520, and for the Administrative
training center, about US$532; (b) for rehabilitation of the primary and secondary schools,
about US$358 and US$382, respectively. As these costs are relatively high compared to
those in other Portuguese speaking countries (US$300 per sq.m in Guinea-Bissau and about
US$200/280 in Mozambique), IDA reviewed the construction costs with local and foreign
construction firms. The relatively high costs are due to a combination of factors: a distorted
exchange rate, high import content of construction materials (about 50%), high proportion of
foreign labor (50 percent on average in the large firms), inadequate tendering procedures
resulting in limited competition, and the Government's poor payment record which has led
contractors to inflate prices. The size of the project's civil works and its systematic use of
international bidding procedures are expected to increase competition. IDA also reviewed the
cost of equipment and furniture with MOE and AfDB project staff; these costs were



- 19 -
complemented by prices and estimates used in other projects funded by other donors. Salaries
for local contract personnel were estimated using UNDP and other projects standards.
3.20 Customs duties and taxes. All items specifically imported for the project would be
exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in line with the standard practice of the
Government, except for local materials to be used for the construction and furnishing of
classrooms and for small purchases related to project operating costs. Of the estimated costs
of construction and furnishing of classrooms and purchases related to project operations, about
US$1.0 million represents customs duties and taxes. During negotiations, the Government
gave assulances that all items imported for the project would be exempt from direct customs
duties and taxes.
3.21   Area and cost per student. The net areas allocated per student place are: between 1.1
and.1.23 sq m. for the new primary classrooms, 1.28 sq m. for lower and 1.44 for upper
secondary classrooms, 1.86 for the Primary Teacher College, and 1.29 sq m. for the
Administrative Training Center. These ratios are in line with IDA's recommendations 1/.
Utilization rates would still be high, even with the limitation in the number of daily shifts in
the.primary schools, because of continuing to use two shifts in all the project primary and
lower secondary schools (ara. 3.6). The cost per new student place averages US$557 for
civil works in primary, US$648 in lower and US$1,241 in upper secondary, and US$2,025 in
the new Teacher Training College. The cost per rehabilitated student place averages US$394
in primary and US$427 in lowver secondary. The cost per student for furniture/equipment
averages US$170 for a primary place, US$247 for a lower secondary and US$355 for an
upper secondary place, and US$4.0 for collective teaching materials in primary, US$20 in
lower secondary and US$29 in upper secondary schools. The cost per student of textbooks
and library books for the secondary schools and for the Primary Teachers College averages
US$44.
3.22   Icremental gperatng costs. These costs are related to the maintenance of equipment
and furniture provided under the project, as well as to equipment and vehicle operation and
office supplies for project management supported under the project. These operating costs
include the salaries (about US$250,000) of local contract staff for the Project Implementation
Unit (accountant, specialist in civil works, secretaries, drivers and security guards).
3.23 Contingency allowances. The project costs include a contingency allowance for
unforeseen physical additions (US$1.6 million), equal to about 6 percent of the project's
estimated baseline costs. Price contingencies between appraisal (November 1991) and project
completion are estimated at US$2.3 million equivalent, or about 8 percent of the baseline
costs. Total contingencies represent 14.2 percent of the baseline costs. Annual rates of price
increases are estimated at 3.9 percent during project implementation (1992-98).
3.24 Foreign exchange com=nent. The foreign exchange component is esdmated as
follows: (a) civil works, 85 percent; (b) imported firniture, 100 percent; (c) locally
manufactured furniture, 30 percent; (d) equipment and vehicles, 100 percent; (e) textbooks
and pedagogical materials, 83 percent; (f) training abroad, 100 percent; (g) local training, 15
percent; (n) specialist services, 100 percent; and (i) incremental operating costs, 72 percent.
1/ Summary of Typical Accommodation/Construction Areas & Appropriate Design and
Construction Standards, World Bank, October 1975.



-20-
The resulting foreign exchange component, Including contingencies, is estimated at US$25.3
million, or about 81 percent of total project cost.
3.25   Additional recurrent costs. The average additional recurrent costs for the Government
would be Kz 346 million per year (about US$0.6 million), or about 2 percent of the education
budget for 1991. It is expected that, with the end of the war, the MOE budget will increase
substantally and therefore should pose no problem in meeting these additional expenses.
During project implementation, MOE would monitor the adequacy of recurrent funds for the
maintenance and operation of the project's facilities and programs.
2. h Lect ianF ine
3.26   The proposed IDA credit is for US$27.1 million, which would finance 100 percent of
the foreign expenditure component of the project and 36.7 percent of local costs, excluding
taxes. The Govermnent would finance the balance of the project costs (US$4.1 million). The
Government's contribution would be in US dollars equivalent to avoid any shortfalls that may
arise In the amount of counterpart funds available during project implementation as the result
oftiuctuations between the official and parallel exchange rate. Meanwhile, to permit MOE to
finalize technical assistance agreements, construction/rehabilitation plans for education
facilities, specifications and bidding documents, and to set other basic project start-up
conditions (establishing GEPPfDCE, including rehabilitation of its premises, housing for TA
staff, and limited rehabilitadon of INDE), an advance under the Project Preparation Facility
of US$1.3 million has been requested for the project. Dudng negodations, the Government
gave =auanm  that not later than 30 days after credit effecdveness, it would (a) open and
maintain in a commercial bank an account (the Project Account) in US dollars or any other
convertible currency, and make in this account an initial deposit of US$250,000 to finance its
contrbution to the project; and (b) deposit every four months into the Project Account the
relevant amount in US doilars, or any other convertible currency, for its replenishment.
TABLE 3.2: Einancing PlaM by Disbursement Category
ci USS million)
IDA       Government         Total                 Local
Amnout        Amount  X       Amount           F for.  (Excl.   Duties
A. Civil Works         12.7  90.2    1.4   9.8        14.1  45.0      12.1   1.2      0.8
S.  Furniture           1.4  51.0    1.4  49.0        2.8   8.9        0.8   1.8      0.2
C. Vehletls S
Equlpsent          1.9 100.0    0.0   0.0         1.9   6.1       1.9   0.0       0.0
0. Textbooks 4 Pedago-
gloat Naterfats    1.4  87.9    0.2  12.1         1.6   5.1       1.3   0.3       0.0
E. Local TraIning       0.6  40.5    0.8  59.5        1.4   4.4        0.2   1.2      0.0
F. Trafning Abroad     2.9 100.0    0.0   0.0         2.9   9.4        2.9   0.0      0.0
C. Technical
Assistane          4.7 100.0    0.0   0.0         4.7  15.4       4.7   0.0       0.0
H. Incremnntal
operating          1.5  80.0    0.4  20.0         1.9   6.1       1.4   0.5       0.0
Total Disbursement     27.1  86.8    4.1  13.2       31.2 100.0       25.3   4.9      1.0



-21 -
C. Proect Management and MJlementation
3.27   Stats of Roparation. The original project, identified in August 1989, was a Social
Sector Rehabilitation project catering for both the education and health sectors; however, its
complexity hampered preparation, hence the decision to develop two new and separate
projects. The education project was idendfied in October 1990, pre-appraised in June/July
1991, and appraised in November 1991. Though it is the first in the education sector, its
preparation is progressing satisfactorily: all the new school sites have been identified and the
provisional titles of government ownership provided to IDA. The new study plans for the
primary and lower secondary schools and for the Teacher Training College were discussed in
detai during appraisal. Worling papers, including the terms of reference for technical
assistance has been discussed with the national staff. The draft documents requested for
negotiations and for credit effectiveness were provided.and discussed during negotiations
(leger of Sector Policy, draft legal texts reorganizing GEPP/DCE and INIDE and
establishing a Tenders Commission for MOE). Working papers for all components were
developed in collaboration with MOE and university staff. Following the setting up of a PPF
advance (para. 3.26), MOE is expected to carry out the process of contracting (a) the first
tecncal assistants for GEPPIDCE; (b) an engineering/architectural firm to prepare designs
and construction drawings following related surveys; and (c) civil works for the rehabilitation
of GEPP and for the housing of technical assistants.
3.28   Project In lementation UTnit. The project would be implemented in accordance with
the following arrangements agreed during appraisal:
(a)    GEPlp would be responsible for overall project implementation and
specifically for procurement, finance and accounting, follow-up of civil works
and equipment, and relations with IDA and the Secretariat of the PCC.
GEPPIDCE would be responsible for the preparation of bidding documents
and contracts and for the monitoring of civil works.
(b)   A Project Cgordinating Committee (PCC), under the chairmanship of the
Vice-Minister for General Education, would provide guidance to and the
monitoring of (J) annual work programs and related budgets, including
national counterpart funds; and (Ui) semiannual progress and annual audit
reports prior to sending them to MDA. The PCC would be composed of the
Director of GEPP, his Deputy, and the Heads of the project components
(Departments of Planning, Human Resources Management, Educational staff
training, Administration & Budget, INIDE, and the university).
(c)    The Head of each component (chief of the relevant department) would be
responsible for its substantive aspects, the efficient use of acquired inputs, and
timely implementation within the agreed annual program.
To strengthen the technical capacity of GEPPIDCE, the project would finance the
rehabilitation of the GEPP/DCE premises, technical assince (architect or civil works
engineer, administrator/accountant, and procurement speciist); training abroad; furniture,
vehicles and equipment; and incremental operating costs. Prior to Board presentation the
Government designated, in its Policy Statement on the education reform (para 3.3), GEPP to
be responsible for project implementation. Prior to credit effectiveness the Government
would provide IDA with satisfictory evidence that (a) MOE has taken the appropriate legal



-22 -
and administrative measures to review GEPP's functional responsibilities to include a new
*      Division of Construction and Equipment (DCE), and establish the PCC with the functions,
responsibilities and staffing agreed with IDA; and (b) the Minister of Education has confirmed
the GEPP Director as the Project Director and the Head of DCE as his Deputy. Submission
to IDA of the standard bidding documents and draft e-ontracts to be used during project
implementation would also be undertaken prior to credit effectiveness. During ne&tiations,
the Government provided assurances that, during project implementation, it would consult
with MDA on the qualifications and experience of the Project Director and the head of DCE
prior to their appointments.
3.29   Technical assistance and training abroad. All specialist services would be procured
under contracts on terms and conditions acceptable to MDA in accordance with IMA's
guidelines for the use of consultants. A list of specialist services and training is at Annexes
3.3 and 3.4. During negotiations, the Government confirmed its intention to apply IDA's
guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.30   Maintenance. The Government's record with regard to maintenance is less than
satifactory, as shown by the state of disrepair of most of the existing schools. This might be
explained by the war and overall situation in the country and, as well as by the low level of
available funds and lack of a specialized administration at both the central and decentralized
levels to undertake the maintenance. The setting up of the new Division of Construction and
Equipment within GEPP (para. 3.12) is a first step in a long process in building the technical
conditions for a maintenance system. During negotations. the Government gave assurances
that it would budget a yearly amount, equivalent to at least US$1.5 million, for school
maintenance.
3.31   Eniromnental imact. This project is not expected to have any adverse effects on the
environment because of the small size and urban sites of the construction involved.
The adaptation of the primary and lower secondary curricula would include a consideration of
environmental issues.
3.32   Fema          . Girls represent about 44.1 percent of basic education enrollments
(44.6 percent in the first level, 41.4 ia the second and 38.9 in the third), which is about equal
to the female participation rate at this level in Africa (1984). In higher education, they
represent about 4 percent, which is also equal to the average female participation rate in
Africa (1984). As a result of the non-systematic collection of educational statistics and other
data, no information is available on female enrollments in upper secondary education or on
the percentage of women in the teaching cadre. The construction of new schools, particularly
at the post-primary level, would certainly increase the opportunities for access to this level. In
addition, and as part of the improvement of educational statistics, an effort would be made
under the project to collect relevant information on female participation; this would permit the
preparation of remedial action, as needed, in future education projects. In its education policy
statement, the Government confirmed its commitment to the objective of ensuring equal
gender access to education.



- 23 -
1. procureme
3.33 The table below summarizes the project elements, their estimated cost, and proposed
methods of procurement.
TABLE 3.3: Summarv of Prooosed Prvcurement Arrangements
(USS ilion quivalent)
ProcureMet Methods
..........~~~...::;...          ..-.......... ...
1. Civil Works                                _
1.1 New construction                          6.3        0.4                                 6.7
(5.6)      (0.4)                               (6.0)
1.2 RehabiLitatfon                            6.2        0.2                                 6.4
(5.7)      (0.2)                               (5.9)
2. Goods                                                                                  _ _
2.1 Furniture                                 2.7        0.1                                 2.8
(1.3)      (0.1)                          _   (1.4)
1.6        0.1                                 1.9
2.2 Vehicles & Equipuent                     (1.8        (0.1)                              (1.9)
2.3 Textbooks & Pedagogical materales         1.6                                            1.6
______________________________________ (1.4)                          ______        (.4)
3. Services Contracts
3.1 Architectural design,  noineering                                0.9                     0.9
and supervision        ___                                      (0.9) bI                (0-9)
4. Consultancies
4.1 TechnicaL assistance                                             4.7                     4.7
(4.7) c       -         C47)
4.2 Training V                                 =                     4.3                     4.3
__________ _________ _________ _________ _________(3 .4 )      1(3 .4)
5. Niscellaneous 
5.1 Incrumental operating costs                                      1.9                     1.9
-         C~~~1.5)elf  ______      1.5)
TOTAL             18.6        0.8        11.8                    31.2
(15.8)      (0.8)     (10.5)                   (27.1)
ALL LCB of which USS0.39 militon under PPF (new constructions USS0.35; furniture and
equpment USS0.04).
hi      Of which USS0.08 under PPF.
Of which USS0.17 under rPF.
SV      The local trafning (USS0.5) would be undertaken by the ROE wIth technical a*  sta nce
apport. Tratning abroad CUSS2.9) would be awarded In accordance with IDA guidelines for
the use of consultants.
sy      Of which USS0.03 under PPF.
About USS1.3 for operating *penses nd about USS0.2 for saLeries of local contractual
staff for GEPP/DCE.
Notc:   The figures in parenthess are the *mounts financed by IDA.
3.34    All procurement of civil works and goods under the proposed project would be
procured through ICB, except for construction of housing for technical assistants and
rehabilitation works for GEPP and INDE which would be procured though LCB part of



-24 -
which financed under PPF. For ICB, tendering would be organized on a slice-and-package
basis, with the exception of the new primary and secondary schools of Kilamba Kiaxi (same
site), and the Administrative Training Center and Primary Teachers College (same site and
some common facilities) to provide opportunities for small contractors to participate. Eligible
domestic contractors bidding on works contracts under ICB would receive a 7-1/2 percent
preference in bid evaluation. Contracts range in size from US$313,000 to 1,400,000 for civil
works; US$75,800 to 995,700 for flurniture; US$81,600 to 451,600 for vehicles and
equipment; and US$55,600 to 324,000 for textbooks and school materials. Technical
assistance for architectural and engineering design, supervision of civil works, and staff
training would be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines for the use of consultants
(para. 3.29). Civil works, equipment and furniture for the offices of the Project
Implementation Unit (GEPP) and INDE and housing for the technical assistants, are being
procured through LCB for an amount not to exceed US$750,000, part of which prior to
effectiveness, under PPF2/ (US$ 390,000). The items financed under operating costs
(US$1.3 million) (such as vehicles and equipment operation and maintenance and office
supplies) under the project would be procured through local shopping, with at least three price
quotations from local suppliers. These contracts would be small in size (US$5,000-20,000)
and_the items would be purchased over the life of the project in accordance with
implementation needs. The remainder of the incremental operating costs (US$0.2 million)
will be used to finance salaries for local contractual staff (para. 3.22). IDA review of
procurement documents would be required for works, goods and teaching materials, and
technical assistance contracts equivalent or exceeding US$75,000. No cofinancing is
anticipated.
3.35   The Gabinete de Estudos, Planos e Projectos (GEPP) and its new Division of
Construction and Equipment (DCE) would be responsible for implementing the project,
including procurement (para. 3.28). As this is the first IDA-supported project in the
education sector, GEPP and DCE have no experience in either IDA procedures or
procurement; hence to minimize the risks, the project would provide 108 man-months of
technical assistance (administrator, 60 months; architect/civil engineer, 42 months;
consultancies for procurement, 6 months, and 24 man-months of training in administration,
accounting and procurement). Under the PPF financing, the Government is expected to
recruit a procurement consultant to prepare the standard bidding documents and contracts for
the project. Provision of these documents to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 3.28). Consultants would also be retained by GEPP during early project
implementation to finalize the bidding documents for civil works, equipment and furniture and
to assist GEPP in the tendering process. AU contracts would be in foreign currency.
3.36 A country procurement assessment report has not yet been prepared. While the
studies for the adjustment and establishment of acceptable national procurement guidelines are
still underway, all procurement would be in accordance with IDA's guidelines. In addition,
MOE would establish a Tenders Commission for the review of bids and contract awards.
This commission would be headed by the MOE's Director of planning and would be
composed of the Directors of GEPP, Administration & Budget, the Director of Education of
Luanda Province, and the concerned specialists from DCE (MOE), as well as representatives
of the Ministries of Economy, Planning, Finance (National Bank, Customs), Public Works,
21 Rehabilitation works for GEPP (US$150,000), Construction of four houses (US$200,000),
and funiture and equipment (US$40,000)



-25 -
and Commerce. Durin    _         , the Government gave ances that it would apply
IDA's guidelines for the procurement of civil worh and goods. Prior to credit effectiveness,
the Government would provide IDA with satisfactory evidence that it has established the
Tenders Commission.
3.37   The project implementation schedule is shown in Table 3.4 below, from which the
estimated disbursement schedule has been derived (Annex 3.6). The project is expected to be
completed by March 31, 1997, and closed by September 30, 1997.
TABLE 3.4: PrQ3ect lmlementation Schedule
- (USSmillion equivalent)
Pre-                                      Total
Project Element      project 1     2      3      4      5      payment
Loan Timing
Sign/Effec/Close    s      *s
Civi Works
1. Construction           0.7    7.7    4.7   -      -       13.1  ICB
(0.6)  (7.0)  (4.3)                (11.9) LCB (PPF)
Goods
1. Furniture              0.2   0.1    1.4   1.1   -         2.8  ICB
(0.1)  (0.05) (0.7)  (0.55) -      (1.4) LCB (PPF)
2. Equipment              0.9    0.3    0.6   0.1   -         1.9  ICB
(0.9)  (0.3)  (0.6)  (0.1)  -      (1.9) ICB (PPF)
3. Textbooks &            0.2    1.0   0.3   0.1   -          1.6
Pedag. Mater           (0.18) (0.9)  (0.27) (0.09) -       (1.4) ICB
Services Contracts
1. Archit.Design          0.6    0.3                          0.9
(0.6)  (0.3)                       (0.9)
2. Tech. Assistance       1.4    1.5    1.1   0.6    0.1    4.7
(1.4)  (1.5)  (1.1)  (0.6)  (0.1)  (4.7)
3. Training
3.1 Abroad              0.8    0.6    0.5    0.6    0.4    2.9  Invitation
(0.8)  (0.6)  (0.5)  (0.6)  (0.4)   (2.9)
3.2 Locally             0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.5    1.4  Others
(0.04) (0.08) (0.08) (0.12) (0.2)   (0.5)
Miscellaneous
1. Operating Costs        0.2    0.3    0.S    0.5    0.4    1.9  Others
(0.16) (0.24) (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.3)   (1.5)
5.1    12.0  9.3    3.4    1.6   31.2
(4.7)  (10.9) (8.0)  (2.5)  (1.0)   27.1



-26 -
3.38 Because of the inexperience of GEPP/DCE in procurement, during implementation all
IDA-financed contracts above a threshold of USS75,000 would be subject to IMA's prior
review.
3.39 Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    Prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b)    Comprehensive semiannual reports to IDA by the Borrower (assisted by
consultants), indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and
the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract awards, .and completion time for individual
contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
2. Secial Account
3.40  To facilitate disbursement, US$1.3 million equivalent would be advanced from the
DA credit and deposited in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. That amount is estimated
to cover about three months of expenses for all project expenditures financed by the MDA
credit.
3. Accounting. Auditing and Re=orting
3.41  The Project Director would maintain separate accounts for the IDA credit and the
Government's counterpart funds. These accounts would be subdivided into expenditures for
each component. During negotiations, the Government gave assurancs that (a) IDA project
accounts, including disbursements against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), wil be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to MDA; audit reports will be submitted yearly
to IDA within six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year, beginning in 1992;
(b) the Project Director will submit to IMA semiannual reports on project implementation,
including procurement information, and on expenditures by April 30 and October 31 of each
year, beginning in 1993; and (c) a cornpletion report will be prepared within three months of
the closing date of the IDA credit. A project supervision summary is at Annex 3.5.
4. Disbursements
3.42 Disbursement under the IDA credit would be on the basis of the categories and
percentages shown in Table 3.5 below. The credit would be disbursed on the basis of fully
documented withdrawal applications, except for operating costs and expenses related to
contracts valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be reimbursed against
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which the documentation would be retained at
GEPP/DCE for review by IDA supervision missions and for annual audits. Applications for
the replenishment of the special account would also include a bank statement of the account
transactions since the last applications, with the balance certified by the bank holding the
account. The esdmated quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in Anne 3.6.



-27 -
TABLE 3.5: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
- (US$000)           -
(1) Civit works                          10.000                          90
(2) FurnIture                             1.000                         100 of foreign
expenditures
nd50 of
tocal expendi-
-         ~~~tures
(3) Equipment and vehicles                1.500                         100
C4 Textbooks and
Pedagogical materials                 1.000                           90
(5) TraIning
(a) Abroad                            2,500                          100
(b) Locally                             400                          40
(5) Specialist services                   3 500                         100
(7) Incremental operating
costs                                 1.000                           80
(8) Repayment of PPF                        670               _
(9) Unallocated                          57300
IV. BENEFiTS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1     The main benefits of this project would include: (i) establishing the conditions for
improving the quality of education; (ii) strengthening the maiagement capacity of the
sector;(iii) imprtoving the quality of training of economists and preparing a strategy for the
overall rehabilitation, revitalization and progressive expansion of the education system. These
are the basic conditions and framework for development of an investment program to meet the
sector's needs and for coordination of the donors community in its financing. The
implementation of the project would provide the experience required for generalization of the
improvement of the education system. More specifically, the project would provide better
teaching conditions to about 24,000 students in primary and secondary education and in the
faculty of economics.
B. Risks.
4.2     The main risk relates to the w,sk management capacity throughout the education
system, the scarcity of qualified staff, and inexperience with IDA's implementation and
procurement procedures. This risk would be minimized, to the extent possible, through the
detailed preparation of project components and activities and the provision of specialist
services and staff training.



- 28 -
V. AGREEMENT TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1    During negotiations. the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a) (i) By January 1, 1993 at the latest, assign to INDE three additional technical
staff with qualifications acceptable to IDA; and (ii) by December 31, 1993,
provide IDA with the revised primary and teacher training curricula, and by June
30, 1994, with the lower and upper secondary curricula (para. 3.4);
(b) By September 30, 1993, transmit to IDA the legal text establishing the statute for
the new type of Primary Teachers CoUeges and related primary application
schools (para. 3.5);
(c) (i) By January 1, 1993 at the latest, select an official to head the Administrative
Training Center, with qualifications acceptable to IDA; (ii) by September 1,
1993, submit to IDA the training program for the first year of training
operations, as well as the proposed corresponding budget; and (iii) ensure that all
project contracts for the recruitment of specialists include a covenant regarding
their contribution to the training of Angolan staff (para. 3.8);
(d) By March 31, 1993, reinforce MOE's Budget Directorate and Human Resources
Department, each with two additional technical staff, with qualifications
acceptable to IDA (paras. 3.10 and 3.11);
(e) By February 1, 1993 at the latest, establish as the criteria for the award of the
project long-term fellowships: previous full-time teaching in the Faculty of
Economics for at least one year, commitment to full-time teaching in the Faculty
upon return from training for a period equivalent to twice that of the training,
and enrollment in a Master's or doctorate program of study (para. 3.15);
(f) (i) By November 1 of each year, undertake an annual Government/IDA review
of the draft investments and recurrent education budgets to ensure the application
and financing of the reform; (ii) by May 30, 1995 at the latest, undertake with
IDA a mid-term review to assess progress in achieving the project development
objectives; and (iii) to facilitate this review, prepare by April 15, 1995 at the
latest a mid-term project review document to be firnished four weeks prior to the
review to IDA and all departments and agencies involved in project
implementation (para. 3.17);
(g) Exempt from direct customs duties and taxes all items imported for the project
(para. 3.20);
(h) Q) Not later then 30 days after credit effectiveness, open and maintain in a
commercial bank an account (the Project Account) in US dollars or any other
convertible currency, and make in this account an initial deposit of US$250,000
to finance its contribution to the project; and (ii) deposit every four months into
the Project AccouLt the relevant amount in US dollars, or any other convertible
currency, for its rep lenishment (para. 3.26);



-29 -
(i) During project implementation, consult with IDA on the qualifications and
experience of the Project Director and the Head of DCE prior to their
appointments;(para 3.28)
0) Budget a yearly amount, equivalent to at least US$1.5 million, for school
maintenance (para. 3.30);
(k) (i) Apply MDA's guidelines for the procurement of civil works, goods and
consultants (paras. 3.29 and 3.36);
) IDA project accounts, including disbursements against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), will be audited annually by an' independent auditor
acceptable to MDA; Audit reports would be submitted yearly to IDA within six
months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year, beginning in 1992; and
the Project Director wil submit to IDA semianmlal reports on project
implementation, including procurement infQrmation, and on expenditures by
April 30 and October 31 of each year, beginning in 1992, and a completion
report will be prepared within three months of the closing date of the IDA credit
(para. 3.41); and
(m) Implement the proposed project in accordance with the procedures for
procurement and accounting, auditing and reporting agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 5.3).
5.2    During ngotations, the Government and IDA agreed on the procurement
arrangements for the project (paras. 3.33, 3.34, 3.35 and 3.36) and on the content of the
Goverment Policy Statement (paras. 3.6, 3.17 and 3.32).
5.3   Priorg BLoa etation. the Government provided IDA with a formal Policy
Statement on the education reform, and measures and commitments agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 3.6).
5.4    Conditions of credit effectiveness, would be that the Government:
(a) Provide IDA with satisfactory evidence that (i) INIDE has been legally
reorganized, in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed with IDA (para.
3.4); C() MOE has taken the appropriate legal and administrative measures to
review GEPP's fiucional responsibilities to include a new Division of
Construction and Equipment (DCI), and establish the PCC with the functions,
responsibilities and staffing agreed with IDA; Ciii) MOE has confirmed the GEPP
Director as the Project Director and the Head of DCE as his Deputy (para.
3.28); and Civ) that the tenders commission has been legally established (para.
3.36)
(b) Submit to IDA the standard bidding documents and draft contracts to be used
during project implementation (para. 3.28).
5.5   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for an IDA credit of SDR19.9 million (US$27.1 milion equivalent) to the People's Republic
of Angola.



-30-                                   ANNEX l I
Page 1 of 2
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
A. THE COUN=I
I.    Angola is situated in the western part of Southern Africa. Its area is 1,246,700 sq
km, with a seacoast of 1,650 km. The country is bordered on the north and east by Congo,
Zaire and Zambia and on the south by Namibia. Geographically, the country is characterized
by six zones: the coastal strip, the intermediate plains, the great inland plateau, the basin of
Zaire, and the basins of Cunene and Cubango. The inland plateau occupies 61 percent of the
territory, constituting a bastion sloping slowly towards the east and breaking up into the
atlantic. Two thirds of the country's territory lies at an aldtude between 1,000 and 1,600
meters.
2.    The country is well endowed with natural resources: forests in the north, extensive
areas suitable for grazing in the south, plendful arable land with estimates ranging from five
to eight million hectares, a coast rich in fish, waterways suitable for hydraulic power
generation, and considerable sub-soil resources such as petroleum, iron, manganese and
diamonds.
B. THE POPULATION
3.    Angola's population was estimated at about 10 million in 1990, with an annual growth
rate of 2.8 percent. Life expectancy at birth is estimated at 44 years. Nearly 45 percent of
the population is under 15 year of age. During the 1980s, the urban population grew at about
7.6 percent per year, as compared to a rural growth rate of 0.8 percent Thus the urban
population increased from 1.8 million in 1980 to 2.8 million in 1986 and was expected to
reach 4.0 million or about 40 percent of the total population in 1990. The population of
Luanda, the capital, was estimated in 1990 at about 1.6 million. The age structure of the
population, its rapid growth rate, and urbanization have played heavy stress on the education
system.
C. THE ECONOMY
4.    Angola is one of the richest countries in terms of land and mineral endowment. In
the years since independence in 1975, however, the economy has become highly distorted
because of the mass exodus of Portuguese skilled manpower, a debilitating civil war, and war-
induced rationing and economic policies. The oil industry, developed as an enclave, has
grown rapidly and now represents about half of the GDP. In 1990, oil export earnings were



- 31 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 2 of 2
about USS 3.0 billion equivalent for more than 90 percent of the country's total export
earnings. By contrast, the non-oil sector's performance has been poor since independence. It
is estimated that the non-oil sectors' output growth per capita has been negative since the
early 1980s. The performance of agriculture is a case in point: an important net exporter of
agricultural products before independence, Angola in recent years has been increasingly
dependent on food imports and aid to feed its urban population; the manufacturing industries,
the lack of inputs, spare parts and maintenance services, as well as the distorted policy
environrment, has severely affected their capacity utilization; and the capacity utilization
manufacturing industries has been severaly affected by the lack of inputs, spare parts and
maintenance services, as well as by a distorted policy environmnt.
5.    The Government's inability to revive the economy after independence is largely
attributed to three factors: (a) 15 years of civil war, which made much of the countryside too
insecure for agricultural production and transport, required heavy military expenditures, and
destroyed a substantial part of the economic and social. infrastructure; (b) severe human
resources constraints, due to the massive exodus of the Portuguese settlers after independence;
and (c) misguided economic policies that created a highly distorted system with a largely
formal urban economy characterized by a high degree of central control, and a large parallel
informal economy.
D. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
6.    Recognizing that the economic distortion and imbalances were due in large part to
inappropriate economic policies, the Government in 1987 announced that it would undertake
an ambitious program of economic and financial restructuring. The basic objectives of the
program are to stabilize and improve production incentives by adjusting price levels,
including the exchange rate, in the formal economy. While the overall direction of the
proposed reforms is appropriate, tee measures generally do not go far enough in addressing
the main structural distortions, notably in the exchange rate. Between 1988 and mid 1991,
several laws were enacted that aimed to provide a broad framework for structural reform, but
most of them have not been applied. However, in mid november 1991 the government
instituted a number of inter-related reforms focused on the exchange regime, public sector
wages, and a reduction of consumer subsidies. Although it wiUl take time to assess the
practical impact of the November 1991 reforms in redressing the enormous distortions in
Angola's economy, the measures are clearly important and have the economy now moving in
the right direction.



-32-
An=e 2.1X
Page I of 2
ANOLA
FTRST EDUATIONI EROlECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHAR OF MIMSTRY OF EDUATI O1
MINIuSTER Of EDUCATIONlg        
YIfce MInisteRe for                                  un { versty            Vice  finfster for toechnicfl
|crat  Educa ton                                                                   vocatfonh    trlafnft
Activitiet lEduca ti on s EUcainOtF           H Eu         WriinUi
int,L Ratotton.s unReititn
[Studfes  Plamning and           Le lunft|
gProjcts UnUtni
tlDel~inovelatfons
l trf~~~~~nftf
Dept.  t Ex   Dept.  o vf nca Dpt. o     tf  qDen of EducmtfnRsorc|
ActivAtlesF               -fc pdcton Euat Dtiton     o    dct



-33-
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 2
X
1 .          X    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
X  _e
X-
J



4.~~~~~~~~3
- 34 -
Ab=E 2.2
page 1 of 2
AI;QLA
FIST EDVUCATION PROlECT
CEIR I OF CURRENT E1pUCAT ION SYSTEg
.S4mO SUPRICOR
.   NuVL dLvI  (cU5SO SUPORJS a
.  IHfL   §S      AO6IIS O5ARM.
~A.                                _    '__ __ __.
4? SlMESTrRE,           1C0?-isros tioeosi
U e       1 X SEMI4gRE            I I.' CWt S TE
i                                              I            I saRsrRE * Cwe
'U     . *SSE              .           CLASM
I  I              ___          ThCIO~OM .__      -_______ .___._
I  lgcwal~~~~~a 1        1-1     U? OCsahtgsTREH                         
I  {1 1  s    I a  I    rtrstC~~~Owa";    I         J4m 
I              ~    ~I  I                              Acoeors
CLASSg                       D
QUAUPICAPOJOAO@6 OUTO
P@RMA.&O RIO WQR
1   '                              .                              . .~~~~~~~~ams



- 35-
page 2 of 2
E=.S HEALTH PR&OJECT
CHART OF TEI PROPOSED EDUCATION SYSTEM
903- G3aMA.P0
2ia                311                       30
itas
4.
.Sfd    2ar                      ----   --i.  -2 J  -aha
.  _ ?4cnfca 11141.       EU  * Uceficlaot
.   Io ,,t.  o .a   st C    _ It CeCLO:
e~~~~~~~F                                rica *2   c 
-Tcnc slt                 [as c    L_c.- Id
43 0    de    ,0 i i  sogn,]   v cr



- 36 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 1 of 1
FIRST ]EDUCATION PROJEC
BA DATA
A.    GENERAL
Land area               1,246,700
Population         :  10,284,100
Population growth    :      2.8%
B..-"EDUCATION DATA (1988/89)
Basic                                               %of
Education          Total       %       Female       Total
1-4            1,067,906      87      476,958      44,6
5-6              123,528      10       51,158      41,4
7-8               38,513      03        14,988      38,9
1,229,941    100      543,104      44,1
Pre-university     4,633
Normal Education   61,090
Technical Education  6,107
Higher Education   6,250
(1990-91)          6,454                  279        4
Basic Education    Number    % of Angolan           32157
14                31,953
5-6                3,224
7-8                1,125
Pre-university       171
Normal Education     300
Technical Education    286
Higher Education     652      69
F      n Financing
Government recurrent expenditures on education (1991):    NKz 29.5 billion
As a percentage of total recurrent Governmt apenditur:    12.5%



- 37 -
ANNEX 2.4
Page 1 of 1
ANGOLA
FIRST ED2UCAT-UN PROJEC
EDUCATION FACILMTES IN LUANDA PROVINCE
UmCIPum    mUNID  h. Of  b. a   hft.     h.Ot h. o  h. P   tOftl h.
OFIIUtIX uIO    iOS  wW  tIMtCIL mmW    PW. Or
AS           I E   llm    U  IM  ll SIm    SCIOLS   m1.    5m1.  SltOLS
6-18       GUDES    man    GRADES
coOOJ      1-2-34   5-6         i-a
___...             .f..C*l.affln..n.                                                               ................................ 
IEGUO?&             50611         21         3         2                   1         I        35
-EArAIGA             83708         21         4         2         1
um                   61414         is.                                                         29
IEZICIG               6400         23         1         1                                      iS
CZII                 11131         39         3         1                                      43
glUmZ I               61294        16         3         1                                      20
SAul                 27S53         16         1         1         I                            19
aCA=:                21831         IS         1         I                                      17
I11                  42279        23         1         1                                      25
1o071                S3M1         214        it        11         3         1         1       241
Imms:            tuti1l   tz 1990
Ijecto  n/19/019  toUef a   p hllil lua    a d om
Jo olpic
fteladal Dlelu oa  Lua



- 38 -
ANE2.S
Page l of 2
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJE
Recent Economic Reforms and Wage Remonetization
1.    On November 15, 1991, the Angolan Government launched a policy reform package
that Included a major devaluation of the Kwanza, substantial price liberalization and wage
remonetization. The Kwanza was officily devalued by 50 percent, moving from 60
*        CKwanzas = US$1 to 90 Kwanzas = US$1 but this new basic exchange rate only applied to
official financial transactions, to imports of Government and imports of "basic entitlements"
as-well as to imports and exports of the economic enclaves (petroleum and diamonds). A
temorary mechanism of two nominally fixed surcharges (sobretaxas camblais) operated for
the rest. Ihe first applied on raw materials and military imports was 90 kwanzas, and the
second to be applied to other goods and services was 460 Kwanzas over and above the basic
exchange rate. So in practice, three exchange rates were in operation: (1) 90 Kwanzas =
US$1 exchange rat for official transactions and for Imports of essential commodities; (i) 180
Kwanzas - US$1 for raw materials and military imports; and (ii) 550 Kwanzas = US$1 for
imports of all other goods and ser-fices.
2.    The reform package also contained incomes policy reform including substantial price
liberalization and almost complete wage remonetzation. The price system was considerably
liberated from administrative controls. Prices officially controlled are now affecting only
fourteen products out of the thirty-five previously controlled prices. These fourteen products
which are stiUl controlled include five products constituting the "basic endtlement" (cartao
basico) - rice, sugar, soap, cooking oil and powdered milk. Meanwhile, with few exceptions,
enterprises are now free to fix their own prices. Specialty shops, which allowed Government
officials the privilege of imported luxury goods at heavy subsidized prices, as well as aU
ration-card stores were also eliminated (except for the special shops catering to foreign oil-
company employees and one such store for the diplomatic commiw V-). This price
liberalization was also accompanied by wage remonetization.
3.    Prior to these reforms, official wages represented only a small part of total
remuneration. Wages were paid in three ways: (i by direct nominal payment; Cii) by
entitlement to purchase goods at artificially low prices; and (di) through various finge
benefits. As a result of both the paralle market premium and the scarcity of products at
official shops, workers got into the habit of selling most, if not all, of their incomes received
in kind or through ndttlemt in parallel markets. In fact, the money nominal wage
represented less than 5 percent of the workers total income and the basic entidement
accounted for about 40 percent of the average workers total income before the reforms.
4.    With the reforms, the wages system has changed towards almost total money
compensation and the removal of quantity entitlement except for the "basic entidement"(cauao
basico) to which every public employee has access (including those in State enterprises) but



- 39 -
ANNEX 2S5
Page 2 of 2
measures, rent-seeking activities that used these labor remuneration instuments will tend to
disappear. As a compensation for the elimination of the complementary and special
entitlement, workers received an increase in money wages in order to adjust salaries to the
unsubsidized prices which Angolans now have to pay. The wage bill multiplied by a factor of
about four but the money wage of higher level employee increased proportionally more than
those of lower level employees.
,4



- 40 -
ANNZ2,6
Page I of I
ANGQLt                   '
F:IRST EDUCATION PROJECr
1.    The Instituto National para a Invesdgaqao e Desenvolvimiento do Educa9ao (INIDE)
was created by Decree No 9 of May 30, 1987. Is mainn objectives are defmnd as to develop
CuqrAcua and Teaching guides and matials, Examinton and tests and undertake
peaogicalt research. The Decree organized INIDE in four departments: General Education,
Technical Education, Social Educadon and Research aud two offices for alministation and
Documentadon and Translations. Its overall management and monitoring of the insdtuto are
thq.responsibility of the Scientific Council and the Directorat Council consdtitu of
practically the same members under the chairmanship of the Director of the Institute.
2.    The insttuto currTeny comprise two departments and two offices: (a) General
education wih 12 sections and 15 staff part of which are part time. This department benefits
from three technical assistants; (b) pedagogical resarch with one staff; (c)  nn
office with 13 staff and (d) documetaton and reproduction with 12 staff. Technical capacity
of existing staff for curriculum development, textboom and teaching materidal development or
appreciation for pwcum     measurement and evaluation as well as for the institute
administration is limited.



-41-
ANNEX 2.7
Page I of I
ANGsOLA
MtuL Dt  ucIo                 IRIk     fl As.             iIytos    r            j  t#      gi       TOTAL
FlI?L A FO~R                           aa 
Gtstor do R    t-uro Huwan2               x 3 *Cx11)  26 a   2  a              I a                           O
G#st4r 4d OreutaRte  F Pil.          3 ac2xif)  36 i       .31                  I                        1.
.      -                          ,-      .    , -,    .a
PL#AiftIea44r#u.4# [4ucact      5           (lxgif   34.        I             II              of         L 70
Est:tatic  Is4at I                   5 a        j, s                          L  * tof                    3.52
C4t~~~~~                  -    *J4A  -,         I     .                      .._....2
Car¶& Eao44 at                       2 *        sa6          .,        -    -                              2..
A4>0+lf.*  J * rg.a....                                     .   a I              ,
~~~I                                     LI  '                        *    s
SAb4t?f4urs 1#44ollets                S          * a                          t               o           L2l .
Sue-etrc4r5g   t4. fit Ia.I            aS a                                   $9'             * a  629
S$-4t,tr. R 4 .gtc.s                                t        31 I t           to               I           .29
C44rdtfabJrf 4t OLS4citt               1(tsl90216 '($xlI; sn t tS2it0  I$X                                540
no94It    Aiu,4t   gattuoe          o  '                        ' .                   't a                  L32
SUN-TOTAL                        L4as  504i  374    - 3 42                                 Ce0   i9zz
.~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ._  =                .            *                            a
NOt T A-  Ites sort   e. uai         Paer pr eUA8,0 a a I ro1 da  CU   CMUL   3t 3U*DR@1.
Do oftrt #1., 5l. ns UM oP@II I   ooNJS welA0 .aa fore3ff  73A3O           DE 33  S   St  "I" e, UR  ete
tfwat es yaadas i. Dlvot umloipal a du 06eela  p?INtIa8  Bob. oil easela  PvViloa.Ia  beja
em isoelu r .gt.naIa. As a" esIdas osUaaa  i stoS miwel. *tlgua  me RP  .Ix,auia. Somte
os  seertonaIovs ad  isLlLma 4ap o          4. oo810'e/ CI.!.
3Iy4etGodf#md  u tln  so~ILpt                                     Clots.____________________________________
. .~.   a         a                      162
Wo t8 t        II                          a            I                                         6
enaLtouas do  as latis F ri                                                                            4 260
lo40 toma PrU  m  4
. ~   r1n&o#  4* olsS  _,                 -- ;-           _            -                               4If3
Y>"^rtu ~~~~ .                                               .                 mm                OO9
_ SUN-TOTAL                                    *
I TOTAL                          i 142   504 :  374:    342    13691 11tael



- 42 -
ANNEX2.
ANGOLA
FlRS-ED-UCAT-TQN PRO.lEC
Information on main Denartments and Divisions of
MOE and the Provincial Delegfation
Planning Department:
1...  The planning Department comes under the direct authority of the Minister and is
formally responsible for undertaking planning activities for the whole education system. The
Department Depends functionally of the Ministry of Planning. In theory it has a triple
mandate: (a) data collection, processing, analysis and dissemination; (b) Educational planning
al coordination of studies and (c) financial including the development of investments
programs and plans for the supplies of equipment and materials. ro dhis end the department
is divided into three divisions: (a) the Division of Stadstics and information, with a staff of
three (two of which with an education at technician level), dealing mainly with data collection
and publication, (b) the division of studies and planning, with a staff of three (two of which
with an education at technician level), which focus on the analysis of this provincial annual
reports and preparation of the MOE's supplies and equipment and materials needs, and (c) the
division of financial planning with a staff of five (four with higher education and the fifth
accounting training), in charge of the development of the MOE's investments and management
of the MOE foreign exchange budget.
2.    The department capacity for planning is limited because of the following: (a) limited
training of staff in education statistics and overall planning technics, (b) lack of an articulate
administrative and planning framework delineating the responsibilities between central and
provincial levels and related processes as well as the overall budgeting relations between the
Ministries of Education and Finance and (c) management of tasks which would be better
carried out by other MOE departments. Consequently much of the operational planning
activities are carried out, with little guidance from the center, by the provinces, through the
budgeting process, in direct collaboration with the Ministry of Finance's provincial
representatives. The Planning Cabinet of MOE only plays a marginal role in this process.
Meanwhile, the provincial planning cabinets as well as that of MOE, depend on the Ministry
of Planning for their methods and procedures as well as important decisions. As a result, the
Planning Department plays currently a very marginal role in the process of policy
development, decision-making and orientation of the system.
3.    For all the reasons above the Ministry of education has created the Cabinete de plano
y proyectos (GEPP) to handle the operationalization of the reform, and follow up of
externally financed project as well as the internal reorganization and monitoring of the sector
overall activities. The cabinet has two high caliber staff, an intermediate level staff and three
secretaries.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2.8
Human Resources Degartment
4.    The Departnent of Human Resou:ces is one of the five departments of the General
Directorate of Administration. It has two main divisions, (a) the Management Diyision, and
(b) the Training Division. Though in theory, the main responsibilities of this new department
include management of labor relations, training and personnel management. In practice only
a small fraction of these responsibilities are actually carried out, to the extent that, as an
organizational function, it is de &cto inexistant at both the Ministry level and the provincial
delegations. At present, the Department of Human Resources undertake the following duties:
(a) Approval of appointments, salary adjustments, pension, inter-provincial transfers, already
decided at the provincial level: (b) manage non-tertiary level scholarships granted within the
education sector. The weakness of the Department of Human Resources is due mainly to the
shortage of qualified personnel to fill vacant positions.in this Department. Moreover, there is
no general policy and corresponding regulations on matters concerning personnel emoluments,
transfer of staff, career development, promotion, work distribution, personnel evaluation and
remuneration.
The Budget Department
5.    Though the Budget Department performs a vital activity for the system, its work
procedures and methodology are determined by the Ministry of Finance. Since 1980, the
Ministry of Finance has centralized within itself the process for planning, developing and
consolidating the national education budgets using information obtained directly from
provincial administration, autonomous schools and the university. In fact, these activities no
longer pass through the Ministry of Education. The Budget Department in MOE, which is
only responsible for the planning, developing and implementing of MOE (central organs)
budget, has very little say in the elaboration of provincial budgets and exercises only nominal
control over their implementation. All budget planning, management and control is done at
the provincial level except for the foreign exchange investment budget which is under the
control of the Ministry of Planning.
The Luanda Provincial Delegation:
6.    Although the Angolan education system is de jure centralized, de facto it is
decentralized. Much authority is delegated to the provincial, municipal and communal levels
and even to some schools (autonomous secondary schools). There are 18 provincial
delegations of education each headed by a provincial delegate. Each of these has several
municipal delegations. The provincial delegation in Luanda is one of the biggest of the
provincial delegations and it has the same structure as the MOE. It has a Planning Cabinet, a
Budget Department and a Human Resources Department that face the same type of problems
like the MOE. At this level though, the shortage of skilled manpower is even more
pronounced.
7.    The component of this project aimed at strengthening management was designed for
implementation only in the MOE and the provincial delegation in Luanda province.
However, in order to ensure that the characteristics and constraints of the other provinces are
taken into account in the formulation and implementation of the project and that its benefits
can be subsequently transferred to the other provinces, simulated implementation is planned in
three other provinces to be selected in accordance with criteria seeking representation of the
greatest possible geographical and social diversity in the country.



- 4'
ANNEX K.9
Page 1 of 4
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCQION PROJECI
ANGOLA: FINANCING FOR THE ADJUSTMENT AND
REVITALIZATION OE TEIE EDUCATION SYSTEM
A..
A.           MeibodQingy
1.           One of the appraisal mission's objectives was to ascertain whether the adjustment
strategy adopted by the Angolan Government and discussed during the identification and pre-appraisal
missions was financially viable. The overall methodology was based on a simulation of the impact
and financial feasibility of various implementation scenarios, using the EDFISIMO model. In order
to simulate the development of primary education, the model requires data on numbExrs of first-year
students registered, numbers of students per year, repeater and dropout rates, student/teacher and
stuLdent/classroom ratios, timetables, the costs of teaching materials, administradve costs, numbers of
teachers and their distnbution over the salary structure, and the national budget estimates and
appropriations for the various education subsectors other than primary education.
2.           Data for Angola are fragmentary. Financial data relating to the primary and
secondary levels are mixed together and difficult to separate. Repeater and dropout rates are based on
incomplete and discontinuous data and only the information on Luanda Is reliable. The salary
stucture has very recently been changed, and the distnbution of teachers within this structure Is at
present difficult to ascertain. The 'real' national budget is also difficult to assess, because of the
drastic devaluations that have occurred. The situation is in a constant state of flux, and therefore the
mission decided that the following modifications should be made to the EDFISIMO model:
(a)   Instead of taking the local currency as the reference point (since its value is
fluctuating, and is likely to continue to do so), it was decided to use instead the salary
level of the least qualified primary teachers (I.e. those with an incomplete training),
assigning to it a value of 100. Consequently, under the proposed new salary
structure, a filly trained primary-school teacher's salary would be rated at 190.
(b)    The costs of the other factors were calculated as percentages of this reference point
For example, the cost of teaching materials per individual student is 0.1, i.e. one-
thousandth of the salary of a teacher with an incomplete training. Admistrative
costs are 10% of such a salary.
(c)    The budget for secondary education was calculated by multiplying the number of
students by the unit cost for the seventh through twelft grades. The unit cost was
regarded as a multiple of that for primary education, the laUer being based on
comparative data prepared by the UNESCO project preparation mission.



- 45 -
ANNA 2.9
Page 2 of 4
(d)    The budget for higher educadon was calculated on the basis of this sector's share of
the total education budget. The same method was used for calculatlii the budget of
the central admnisttion.
3.           Essentially, the advantage of this method is that, because in the new salary structure
the relationships among the various categories of teacher remain unchanged (at least in the medium
term) and teachers' salaries constitute at least 90% of the total cost of education, the possible growth
rate calculated using the new reference point will be closer to the sftem's real growth rate.
B.           The Financing Strategy
4.           The strategy adopted for developing the new six-year primary cycle aims at improving
education rather than expanding it. Consequently, the number of entrant Into primary education will
Increase by only 4% per year, a rate that is only slightly higher than the demographic growth rate for
the cqbort corsisting of seven-year-old children.
S.           Currently, available data indicate that it is necessary to provide about 80 student-years
at primary level in order to pau one single stdent through the entire cycle. The assumption is that,
if quality is improved, thus halving repeater and dropout rates In one decade, the same result can be
achieved with only 20 student-years. The repeater and dropout rates wi be reduced over the decade
by retraining half of the 30,000 teachers who are curenatly under-qualified and ensuring that all newly
hired teachers are qualified, by increasing the supervision of teachers and supplying studen  with
more teach   materials, and by elimina the third shi n additon, retrained teachers would
recive a 30% salary increase.
6.           The above measures would require an 8.7% amnnal increase In the primary education
budgetL They would also result in a 13% annual increase In the number of students completig the
primwy cycle, and secondary education would have to grow by 6% per year. Because of the
inefficiency of the university system and the level of expnditu  on student services that are not
strictly academic (consttutng about 58% of the education budget), it has been decided th22 the
university budget should Increase by only 1% per year over the period.
7.           Currey, about 12% of the Governmens recurrent expenditures are allocated to
educadon. Assumi that the nationl budget increases by an annual 3% in real terms, the above
stratogy would require an increase from 12% to 16% of the share allocated to education by the year
2000. This percentage fails weU within the average for the region. a light of current constuction
co (US$500 per mi), the capital budget necessary for meetng the needs of demographic growth and
elimint  the third shift would be about US$15 million per year over the next five years, and
thencefrth about US$25 miion per year..



* SUIRY *** EDUUATION FINANCE SiIHELAION MODEL FOR PRIMARY SCNOOL
TEA                UDGET                   INVEST      UNIT CoSt         STUDENTS     ENR.RATE1   ENR.RATEZ    ENT.TEACHER    TEACNEtS  CGADUATES
1                S4,601,490            *52,302          S3.293       1,397,250           66.1X        76.5X            447       54,911      IS*oo
2                $4,872,412           $213,791          S3.435        1,418,629           64.92        76.9X          1,061      35.465       14,13
3                $5.292,571            508W,750          S3.602       1,469,504           64.9X        77.3           1,799      36. no8      11372
4                S5,827,719           S727,298           S3.779  .   1,542.234            65.82        77.62          2.353      38,556       21,541
5                56,479,471           S951,506           S3.957       1,637,385           67.52        76.0X          2,9Z6      40,935       24,774
6                S7,265,934         $1,208U468           S4.133       1,758,232           70.1X        78.42         3,586       43,956       26,124
7                $8,203,233         $1,493,408          S4.300        1,907,572           73.52       78.82          4,321       47,689       27,997
8                *9,249.769         51,655,659          54.455       2,076,138            77.2X       79.2X          4,849       51,903       32,563
9               S10,223,398         S1,498,361          S4.593       2,225,974            80.OX       79.5S          4,432       55,649       40,571
10              $11,077,361          S1,305.660          S4.701       2,356,540           81.86        79.9X          3,997       58,914      50,291
11               S11,857,819         S1,124,075          S4.803       2,468,948           82.8J        80.32          3,585       61,724      60,616
12              S12,591,165          S1,000,194          S4.901       2.568,967           83.32        60.72          3.312       64,224      69,550
13               513,320,018           $966,389          S4.997       2,665,606           83.52        81.1%          3,262       66.640       75,590
14               $14,081,866         S1,010,353          S5.090       2,766,641            83.72       81.52          3.405       69,166       78,729
1S               *14 ,87,345         S1,075,207 WS. 1O                2,874,162            84.02       81.9X          3,601       71,854       81,091
0.09                                               0.05                                                    0.05         0.13
..................................................................................................................................................
PALAMIERS: Initial Governent Budget (tOU GO) .......SO
Initilt Primry Shool Budget IXW   PRIN) ....                       SO
Share of Education in  G OGM (ALF) -------------                  O.O2
Rate of Growth of SUD COY (RATE  RU1N) --00------                 002
Initial Budget Activiy I (BUD  .)........... .SO
initial Budget Activity 2 (Ei2)                                    SO.
Initial Budget ActivIty 3 l -) ------            t.o
-         Initial Budget Activity 4 (IID-4) ----                              SO
Initlal Budgt Activity 5 (9UD-5) ----                              SO
initial Budget Acti ty 6 (OUD-6) ..............SO
Initial Budget ActivIty 7(WY) ---------------                      SO
initial Budget Actl.i.y 6 ()."..                                   tSO
Initial Budget ActIvity 9 (3139).SO
Initial Budget Activity 10                                         soW 6 10)  SO
Rote of Growth Activity 1 (RAtE          ..t)     0. 0.02
late of  Act   ty                               ~~~~~~~~0.02
lete of  rowth ActIvity 2 (RE2)          .-     -
Itate of Growth Activity 3 (EATE.3).O.OX
late of Groth Activity 4 (E4)-.OX
Rate of Gemth Activity 6 (RATE 6) .0.---------                    oox
Rate of Grouth Activity 7 (PAE 7)  0---------                     OOX
Note of  Arowth  ctivity 8 (R..E.8). -0.0O
lote of  Arowth ActiVity 9 (ATE.9).0.02. OOX
Rate of  Arowth ActiVity 10 (T.E 10)  -                           0.0
Initial IMit Cost Per Student (lilT tXDDST)                     $3.20
Cost of Aibinistration per teacher ICPT                         $0.00
Cost of Maeteril per Student (COWS) .-   -0.100
Cost Construction per Student (CCPS)                           $10.00
Prop. of leach. Shilfting Sol. Scale at Step 3 (X 3)             0.00
Prop. of Teach. Shifting Sol. Scale at Step 6 (X 6)              0.00
Prop. of Teacb. Shifting Sel. Scale at Step 9 (X-9)              10Q
Initial Number of Students In Priv. School (SPRYl)                  0
Linear growth Coefficlent of SPRVO (RSPRV)                       0.00
Init. Numb. of Entering Stud. In Priv. Sch. (ESPRVO                 O                                                                               o
Linear Growth Coefficient of ESPRVO (RESPRY)                     0.00
Classroom Hours (C HOUR) ------------I----- --------            20.004
Classroom Sixe (C IIZE) ------.-------------.--     -           40.00
moHws lought by leachers (HOUR TEC) --------------               20.0
X Of Entering Teachers to Salary Scale A (PCT A)                  0.02
X of Entering leachers to Salary Sceale 0 (PCI  )                 o.Ox
X of Enterins Teachers to Salary Seale C (PC C)                 100.0X
X of Enterins Teachers to Stlary Scale D (PCTJ))                  O.OX



DATE        IlCEtIS         IwGETSEC         Kw6Eane         SCEIAIIS          TOTALED        UIGEICOY        E(w/O          PalmTO1TAL       SECIIO0
6991  4,451,680  1,000,00N      2,000,00           130.00        7.553,680      6s,000,000           0.117            o.s9             0.
ssz        4,60,490         1,060,000       2,020,000          133,900       7015 390        66f950O000          0.117            0.59             0.
6993       4,872,412        1.,12.6W        2,040,280          137,917       o .174129      66,955,soo           0.119            0.60             0.
1m          5,292,576       1,1W1 016       2,060,602          142,055       8,686 244       71,027,255          0.122            0.61             0.
*9          S,827,719       1.Z62.47        2,001,200          146,316       9,317,720       73.158O0o3          0.127            0.63             0.
1996       6.479.471        1 3360226       Z,1z0202 100,706                10.070.422       75,352.815          0.134            0.64              .
1997        7,265,934       1,416,S19       2,123 ,o0          1SS,227      10.962721        77,613,399          0.141            0.66             0.
199          ,203,233       1,503,630       2,144:276          59,8&        12,0l1,017       n9n4 o0             0.1S0            0.6              0.
l9m        9,249,769        ,593846         2,165,713          164,650      13,174.010      52 340.0SS           0.160            0.7O             0.
2000       10,22,39          ,669,479      ?7:187371           169,621      14,269,86        84,110,257          0.168            0.72             0.
2001       11,057.s59       1.1 ,a4U        2 206.244          17470        16,032,620      87,354,565           0.164            0.74             0.
2002       12,591,165       160299          2,236,33?          I7t,956      16,910,751      09,975,202           0.1in            0.75             0.
2003       13,320,015       2 062 196       2,25650          165,39       17,711.213      92,674,*58           0.192            0.75             0
2M04       14,08,66         2,132,925       2,276.167          190,9       . 161.896        95,454,69n           0.196            0.75             0.
2005       14,667.34S       2 260.904       2,296946           1V6,637      19,643,834      91,310,332           0.200            0.76             0. -
2006       14,887345       2396,558        2,321,938          202.S36      l,80m.3         101,267.882          0.196            0.75              . 
0.054           0.0             0.010    .        .M             0.06            0.030
4I.
0 5%



48                             SJNEx~At=3.1 (a)
- 48 -                                     PageIof I
b ..................                    ,       ,         m , , , , _ , ,                         f
It", Spclficatiluo                                                               Uit  TOTSL    Cost   Tur of
la.       and      le/lo. h. of             Capacity  Total    Net  lt ar     Cost  COST          for   tIlau
sulcipality             Clussua           pir   coread clasts         e      La   11 5      etudt tatiot
shift    Al      ua      stdnt 1s         (0003  11 IS$ [II
TOTALS                       214 cuSUCL OOD            25335                            10626,5
...............................,,.,.. ......._.............. _..........._-
TOTAL Iw                      83 CUSSRO         2400   1008                             52U8,6
__ TOTAL P11tWLf.   36 CUwSSI S                     1lO0    1899                      515   2006,1        551
I ULARN  11t 11                              600   Z300        143     1,23          668,9              3
- 8                2 CUAZU                    12                  400    1300      741     1,23           668,9              3
I3 SADUIA                  12                 600    1300       743     1,23          668.9              3
TOTAL sEcoiuT lst.            12 CUSS1oOIS       600    ISIO                      51S    777,1       648
*                   I KIU AU 1llST             12                 100    IS0       773     1,28          777,1              3
"TOL OTIEN                    35 CUSSROOW                4690                     526   2464,6
.     ......... . . .       ......
I S9ICwNu  2t.cycl        20                  900    2126      1300     1,44         t11C,6      1241    3
2 "0nu   CIoI               9                 320    1247       591     1,16          648,0      1025    2
3 TurI  cTu           [21  6                  20    1317        310     1,2w          70J,0      2911    2
TOTAL mu.                    131 CUaSAONS       6430   15U26               .            5378,0
TOTUL Psnut                    8 CUIONoS        3400    742                       358   2682,1       394
1 U1I1          ho. 4    U                    n00    1304       721     1,21          556,9              2 2
*               2111 1 U=        h. 11    I                    t00    1705    1027       1,14          675,8              t
3 Krum D        J11o.176    20               1000    2397      1215     1,21          741,5              I
4 1111           o.196    It                  900    2076      104      1,16          707,8              2
0TOL SZCOIDART lst cycle    63 CL SSO           3030    6766                      382   2585,9       427
I TfunA                    12                 600    1608       725     1,20          685,7              2
I tuI  NuA ZI     TAIU   12                   480    938        55      1,09.         313,0              1
3 IIGWOUTA       *.lCt  18                    900    2091      1041     1,15          758,9              1
4 cZum           O.L       21                1050   21l2       1126     1,116         828,3              2
TOtAl                                                     989                     III   ll0,0                0
toTs m     Mu.               214          .             U533                            106t6,5
IryuX  id Secoday lst.c.179 CUSSIM              1830   19456                             8052,0
AIl PrLuay              104                5200   IUIO                              4689.0
All Seoa   lst.ycls 75                     3630    8276                            3363,0.
Al othet                      35                 1460    5679             '25746
-.           ...a.e........e....................                                                 . .........
Naks: III          for Primar  ad   scondary lst.ccle, two skAIts
[i1      lacliude  haidia  faciltlu



-49-
ANNEX 31 Lb
Page 1 of 3
Government policy letter (English translation)
May 4, 1992
People's Republic of Angola
Ministry of Education
Cabinet of the Minister
Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Director
Sout-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Washingtn, D.C.
Dear SLr:
I write to inform you of the Government's intended policy for the education
sector. As you know, the primary and secondary education sector has been the subject of in-
depth studies since 1987. These studies were intended primarily to assess the sector's situation,
and subsequently to identify the adjments needed to improve its qualitative aspects and ensure
its gradual development, so that It can meet both the social demand for basic education and the
demand for trainig. This process has led to an overhaul of the education system at this level.
This overhaul of the system consists essentally of a structura reform and a
rstement of objectives. It aims first and foremost to increase the period of primary education
to six years, a step which, combined with qualitative support measures-curriculum adaptation and
an increase in the wedey teacher education and training period-would enable students to acquire
reading and writing md other basic skills, and to Improve performance at this level. Next, it
would help develop a lower secondary cycle to serve as a basis for an upper secondary cycle, as
well as for the various mid-level training programs that are lacking today. In particular, and
where teacher aining Is concerned, the reform incorporates a program to train primary school
teachers In one year following lower secondary education. However, during the transition period
between the two systems, training would take place over two years, so as to expand the general
knowledge of the fi*tre primary school teachers. TrWning of lower secondary teachers would
tak place in one year after completion of upper secondary education, using the same two-year
system during the transit  period. For the moment, the training of teachers for upper secondary
would contnue to be provided as before at the Instit Suprieur des Sciences de l'Education,
pending the results of the ongoing and fure studies geard to higher education reform
This sctural reform wil be accompanied by quative measures, designed in
particular to make programs and examinations at the different education and training levels



p                             -~~~~~~~~~50-
ANEX 3.1 02)
Page 2 of 3
relevant to the new situation and to present-day needs. While the new structure will naturally be
used in the demonstration model schools, it will also be set up in all the new institutions, as
preparations are made to lay the bases for universal application of the new system. As you know,
human resources represent one of the key factors of development, and Angola, for various
historical reasons, is still handicapped in this area, despite the efforts it has made under the
difficult conditions prevailing since independence. The new circumstances will certainly enable us
to bring a more systematic approach to the task of developing education and training-as witness
the structural reform mentioned above and the ongoing studies of higher education-and to be able
to call upon a larger volume of resources.
For the next decade, our priorities in terms of resource allocation in the sector
will be ranked as follows: prflmary, secondary, and tertiary education, and, for each of those
levels, improvement in the conditions and quality of education within the framework of the new
strdeture. In quantitative terms, the lack of available data makes it difficult to give estimates for
all three levels beyond those already arrived at by the Angolan and Bank experts during their
appraisal of the financial feasibility of the reform process: specifically, an 8.5% rise in the
primary education budget (making it possible to bring up the enrollment rate from the present
52% to 81% by the end of the decade), an increase in the secondary and higher education budgets
of, respectively, 6% and 1%, and, in more global terms, an increase in the overall share of
education in the Government budget from 12.5% to around 16% over the decade, this being the
maximum in view of the large contribution we expect from private education. We anticipate that,
with support from the project, we shall be able to determine these quantitative aspects with
greater accuracy, also incorporating the results of the ongoing studies on technical and vocational
training, and the recommendations contained in the higher education studies. This matter will be
discussed at the mid-term project review in May 1995. In any case, our objective is to work
within our financial limitations to implement the reform of the system, in particular its qualitative
aspects, and to increase access to the different levels of education, the education of girls being a
subject of prime concern.
The tasks facing us in the coming years are immense, and will demand the ful
mobilization of all our potential. Within this framework, the decree of June 2, 1991 once again
allows private education, and we intend to make a major effort, based on the private education
study to be conducted under the project, to take appropriate measures to facilitate and encourage
it, development. Also, for the effective performance of all these tasks, it will be necessary to
improve and simplify the organization of the Ministry of Education. We shall tackle this aspect
as soon as the results of the pertinent study are available.
One of the problems facing us is that of rehabilitation and maintenance of the
educational infrastructure. Since the time of independence we have not been able, for financial,
technical and secudty-related reasons, to achieve our objectives in this area, despite our efforts,
with the result that this infastructure is in serious need of rehabilitation. Now that the security
constraint has been lifted, the problem of rehabilitation, whose long-term solution demands
specific studies and strategies, is essentially a problem of absorptive capacity and of trade-offs
between rehabilitation and new construction taking into account the trends in civil engineering
costs. On the other hand, it is now possible to strengthen this infrastructure and to gradually
work toward the universal application of a maintenance system, for which the Division of



- 51 -
ANNKX A. 
Page 3 of 3
Construction, Iastucture and Maintenance would be responsible. The annual budget for
maintenance discussed during negotiatons wll also be allocated. However, the settng up of an
efftve mintenae system is a long and difficult proceSs, as you know, and we hope that, aftr
this initil phase, it wll receive a specific attention as part of a new project. One of our consnt
concers wi be to reduce the high costs of constuction, to which end we shall pay parflar
attention to the construction standards and technologies used for the new Institutions.
.L
In addition, I confirm that the Department of Studies, Planning and Projects is to
be responsible for Implemeaion of the First Education Project .Tus, Mr. Pinda Simao wi  be
in eharge, and conseqently ProJect Director. Mr. Narciso Damasilo Dos Santos Beneto wi be
Chief of the Construction, Equipment and Maintenance Division and wil be his deputy.
Sincery,
Antonio Burity da Silva Neto
MInister of Education
/



Ii.
.**...*...   .............          ............ ........ ...... 0-040 ........          .........................
reS    tO9      C.I      lo 1                      re       All     res so            9ROW %qsla~si
re.     0O      ge       WeO      06       .04     o*0    e*o       reO       re      t'.O                          -aw
Got     re      S's      ti2      SE      91       VS       05      S9       9L       i                   a nUN 1wm  put5
*       .    E.g~II   Ile     &IN      a's              Ile      so4l     SO6     too      re3nb3
$l       f      r        re               a's.    s**      0*.      O*S      reS      9'S                        1996
All     tI                                                                            ro                 eam mum ..s
.................. ......... .............
gee .  a.s    as.                         re 'S 5  00                        re0 60  50                   SMIUMAMBO el
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o... .  .......... _^w^
*a      re      rt       WI       rz      r        re      sre     sr        gost                                usesqIs
...... O...          ---------------.                                   ..................
*4                  6      00        0      1r       Ole     re       00        S      W        re       SO_UN
ze 6                                                        @0       *                        *     r    r         |     a-1
os      to     tI '      t-l      a ll    tee      a's      sl'      so-   We           o                a      * .
se     os6      sl      i's      Ise      el      res      s0       Pe      Wo       so                         aim m suu3d
in             r~~te   We.      t's      elf                       reSO 0  reS      I'S      We       l's            fi i          uma It
10.9                                                                                  Vol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u  ume,Uh  '31
am0   mama ts           rae       ma4  zooai   3*   30   too                re ulUmwl
allu    aI's    tooi  I,4         tooa  Wemm   reuuw  reus  le$              s11 ma     0             01  lmam
I's              r        re *             re       le *       *        33  * a1mi1 n'
**                                                                                            C     u    s
*t *r t-1~ 'A                                    M't               Mae   *311 @  s  1   11111
* ** ~~~-                                         *3  es 
WAAN113Ine  Sq Omsss Amon
i30MI mam    rie
VIMl-e  -   ts  W.l .   *s  **  * *  t*  ;**  @e  @-          "§"01 t



- 53 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 4
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
summary Accounts Cost Summary
._. ..   ........'                              ei
,.,.. INV,,EN  C.                       ________
A. Civil Work                      1.7       9.5      11.2       85.0      40.9
B. Fumiture                        1.6      - 0.7      2.3       30.0       8.3
C. Equipment & Vehicles            0.0       1.7       1.7       100.0      6.3
-V. Pedagogical Materia            0.2        1.2       1.4       82.6      5.2
E. Technical Awistance             0.0       4.4       4.4       100.0     16.1
F. Training
1. LOcal                         1.0      0.2        1.2       15.0      4.4
2. Foreign                       0.0       2.7       2.7      100.0       9.8
Sub-Total                          1.0       2.9       3.9       73.7      14.2
0. Honorares                       0.0       0.8       0.8       100.0      3.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS             4.S      21.2      25.7       82.3      94.1
.~~~~~
A. Operation & Mainnance           0.5       1.2       1.6       71.4       5.9
Total BASELINE COSTS               5.0      22.3      27.3       81.7    100.0
Physical Contingencies            0.4       1.3       1.6       77.7       5.9
Price Cotngencies                 0.5I      1.8       2.3       76.S       8.4
Total PROJECTS COSTS               5 S.9    25.3      31.2       81.1     114.3
Values scaled by 1000000.0 - 1/16/1992 12:58



- 54 -
54                                &NN~~~AEX 3.2
Page 3 of 4
ANGOLA
FIRST DUCATION PROJECT
ffnenelng Ptan by Disbursent Category
US,,
IDA            6ov*rnment          Total                  Local
..... .-.--.------.     ..... e ;--- ..................... -For.    (Exet.   Duties
-Amount            Am t       2     Aimt        X       Exch.   Taxes)   LTax.
A. CIVIL WORKS                       12.7    90.2        1.4    .9.8     14.1    45.0       12.1      1.2       0.8
S. FURNITURE                          1.4    51.0       1.4    49.0       2.8      8.9      0.8       1.8       0.2
C. VEHICULtE   EQUIPMENT              1.9   100.0       0.0      0.0      1.9      6.1       1.9      0.0       0.0
0. PEDA00GICAL MATERIAL               1.4    87.9       0.2    12.1       1.6      5.1       1.3      0.3       0.0
E. LOCAL TRAINING                     0.6    40.5       0.8    59.5       1.4      4.4      0.2       1.2       0.0
F. TRAINING ABROAD                    2.9   100.0       0.0      0.0      2.9      9.4      2.9       0.0       0.0
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               4.7   100.0       0.0      0.0      4.7    15.1       4.7       0.0       0.0
N. INCREW'TAL OPERATING               1.5    80.0       0.4    20.0       1.9      6.1      1.4       0.5       0.0
....... ..... i:........:.......... ........................................................
Total Disbursement                   27.1    86.8       4.1    13.2      31.2   100.0      25.3       4.9       1.0
............................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 1/16/1992 12:58



~ 55               ~                 ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 of 4
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Ffnancing Ptan by Project Canpanenes
U#S,
tOA          Covernenwt          Total                . Local
................ - ......   ..................  For.  (Excl.   Duties
Amount     X    Amount    X    Amount    X          Exch.  Taxes)       Tax.
A. PRIMARY ED.:ACCESS Z             6.1    84.7      1.1   15.3       7.2   23.1       5.6       1.2      0.4
B. SEC. ED.:ACCESS *                6.4   83.8       1.2   16.2       7.6   24.3       5.6       1.4      0.4
C. INIQ: CURRtCIJLA & EVAL.        0.9    9S.2      0.0     4.8      1.0    3.1       0.9      0.1       0.0
J. IN1bE: TEXTBCOKS                 0.8    81.0      0.2    19.0      1.0    3.2       0.7      0.3       0.0
E. INE (TEACHER TRAINtNG)           0.9    86.8      0.1    13.2      1.0    3.4       0.8.    0.1        0.1
F. ECONOMICS FACULTY                2.3    96.2      0.1     3.6      2.4     7.6      2.2      0.1       0.0
C. M'NENT TRAINING CEITER           1.7   66.2       0.9   33.8       2.6    8.3       1.3       1.2      0.1
H. STRENGTHENING MED                3.4    97.2      0.1     2.8      3.5    11.3      3.4      0.1       0.0
t. OEV. OF MIS AT NIGHER            1.4   94.6       0.1    5.4       1.5    4.7       1.3      0.1       0.0
J. PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES           0.4    94.2      0.0    S.8       0.5    1.5       0.4      0.0       0.0
K. PROJECT MANAGEMENT               2.7   91.5       0.3    8.5       3.0    9.6       2.6      0.3       0.0
Total Disbursaunnt                 27.1   86.8       4.1   13.2    31.2  100.0    25.3          4.9       1.0
..............................e. 1................................................................
Vatu*s 5cated by 1000000.0  1/16;1l.M2  1,2,:58 



_ 56 -
ANNOC.3,
Page I of 4
1. LITO     OSLAT
A.    StIng ap gf a  eosrtion Model bEdatn
*    *  1  EialIlmQncand Cnstucto   ..         . ................. ....          ..-
2.
- CLurrculum dgvelopwmN ... o.......... **...... .. ........ 30
-  Consultantn(auadon,teacetll, ealinatull  ........... 6
:    .  1.     o _            ............0 ....9.......           ...    6
B. NuuouLaagu
3-  Edm       Maa   ,W    ............ ......... ........... ,CthMME
-  Consultant for die defliniton and packaftn of training,
-lblow up training of tnals and evaluatn.  . ..................  IS
2.  W          t 
- EAucado         n                            ........ .....             36
*AdIflltaOImODtDt( E P....                              . . . .            .. 60
0  Architect(GEPP)a*....9.99......9..... ....   90...9.9...42
-  PECronirm  etpeaist (GEpp) .                             6
a  Audit (GEPP.  ...*..........9....9999999.99..99999999  -
C.         er FAIC-
-  Taches for the Falty of Ewcozs*                     . .                24
a Condltan  for mangmt ifmton aud orgaion any8,
systan d=elp   dnin; lrpeealn                        *   O*. . *, e.  . . .    14



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 4
A.    Terms of References
1. Setting up of a demonstration model
&Ahiaea signand ngjaosdg. Survey the sites, prepare the working
drawings, describe the works and establish qantitdes for new constructions and
rehabilitations; contribute to preparation of the bidding documents and Invitation
for bids; Organize supervision meetings ith the contractors during execution of
works and participate in reception of works; certify aUl payments to the
contractors (Consultant firm selected from short list);
Criculum Deveigment Contribute to the definition of the objectives, and
develop the methodology, and organize the adaptaion of the curricula of primay
and secondary education as well  for teachen training; Participate to the
elaboration of an evaluation framework for the demonstration model and
contribute to the development and application of related instuments; Contibute
to the definition of teaching materials and to elaboration; traing of local staff;
(Firm, university or individual selected from short list);
EUgIgn. Develop an evaluation framework for the demonation model
including an evaluation schedule and detailed guidelines for the daboration of the
main instruments and their application. Conribution to the preparaton of the
evaluation intumenft. ( University or individuals sdeccte from short Ust)
Teaesa _==. Define for the teacher training college the organization and
training principles and deveop its broad objectives, study plan and podagogical
content, organization of teaching ad of classroom prcico, and eaminaon
system (University or individual sdected from short list)
Teaching material. Review aeistng teaching materials, paticularly txbooks
together with the curriculum specialist, streamline their mnmber and propose new
printng standards to reduce cosu, prepare program and methodology for the
development of teaching guides and contribute to training of the staff.
(University Or individual selected from short list);
ProcuremetoLf.tebooks. Define texbooks procurement proce, steps and
content for local staff, and prepare the procurment documents for texbooks and
library books; monitor the min steps of the process and review related contrat.
(firm or individual slected) dirctdy);



-58-
ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 4
2.    Wd ._fl__
1ni:ng of              staL Analysi of t         needs in priority area;
Deinion of tra    objectives, conten and orgaization; Implemenaton and
contrbuton to fit taining and their eluadon (Firm or educatio
Administrative Training Center selectod from short list);
=                . Definition of oducaion management component work
progm  ad coordination; daboration with the financing consultant of long range
sratey for the sctor ad daled Investme proam; responsibility for
strenthening human resources managemae (Firm or Ididual selcted from
short list);
* onau1fanL (organization, stastcs,plg,budgt). Orgizaonal analyis of
MOE and recommedations; review ad   vlopt of statistical eonnair
and training of local staff in anaysi and publication; eaboradon of a long
stroW   for the g  iczaton of the rorm and prepuaron of detailld
Investm    program.  irm or Idvidua selected from short list);
Accuan. Responsibility for projec accounting and flnnes.(Firm or
hIdividual list)
AcAhkz Responsiblty for finaiation of biddig documen    d advs on
procadure, qaty of sevces ad ci wodr provied by archcal deip
consultants and constructon firms, and for athering data on constucion cos.
(m sdected from short lst);
3 Prepartion of stadards biding documents and Ut                 of staff on
IDA procedur; moniorn of first prcmnt to nosure th  procedures
Impl Ion while training local staff. (Firm or Idiitd  sdected from short
list);
Audk. Review of accout  system ad procedures and audin of prject
accounts. (irm selcted from short list);
3.             l
E      o.   Teain of coonomcs nd ma -angt at the fact
while nadion  teachers are on trainn aod. (Univesity or Indid  sdelctd
from dsort lst).
_orgma=and ognizatn nalyss and
developmen. Andysis of the university min      orani        and
mctoni  and decision makg        alysis of tWpe  d modkis of Informadon
codcdon and use and prepo  of a program for th progre         developme
of a manageme  ionf aibon system. (Univas  sdeected  om a short lit).



- 59 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 4 of 4
4.    SjUdies
- Organization and functionning of MOE. Analysis of the organization,
functionning and staffing of MOE in relation to main functions and proposals to
improve organizational efficiency.( Firm or individual selected from short list);
- Analysis of higher education and development of strategy for adjustment. Review
of the sub-sector qualitative, quantitative and cost efficiency issues and
development of objectives, measures, programs and time-frame to address
them.(Firm selected from short list);
- Role and potential of private sector in education. Undertake a review of the status
of the education private sector, and analysis of the constraints and issues
hampering its development. Prepare specific recommendations to provide a
incentives and a facilitating environment to the private sector.( Firm or individual
selected from short list);
-   Cost and fing. Carry out a cost and financing study of the education
sector,identify the inefficiencies and propose related improvement measures;
develop scenarios regarding the education growth along takig into account the
above measures and the role of the private sector and their financial impact.and
make recommendations with regard to feasibility.(firm or individual selected from
short list);
- Resturaucnffrmanm= teacbhe trining. Review the estimations of training
needs stemming from the new primary and lower secondary education structure
and teachers upgrading needs and undertake the reorganization of the existing
teachers training school and their map.(Firm or individual selected from short
list);
- School ma=pg. Develop the methodology for primary school reorganzation and
undertake the exercise in one municipality to serve as case study for training and
train the administrators; carry out the school mapping for reorganizing secondary
education in close liaison with the teacher training study. (Firm or individual
selected from short list);
B. Procurement.
- In order to streamline the procurement process, it is suggested that the GEPP
proceed to the regroupement, to the extent possible, of the above technical assistance by type
of field and prepare related procurement document. Examples of such groupings could be:
(a) curriculum development, evaluation, teachers training, and teaching material; (b) all
technical assistance related to administrative training an management withill the MOE
including school mapping; (c) grouping of technical assistance for the university. ITe same
approach could be used for contracting the training in annex 3.4.



- 60 -
A&NNEX 3.4
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
LIST OF -TRAINING ABROAD
A.    Development of a demonstration Model
Man/Months
1. Rehabilitation and Construction
2. National Pedagogical Institute & Textbooks
- Curriculum development .     ................                      12
- Measurement and evaluation  .9..... : .                             9
- Textbooks design and specifications   ..                            9
- Textbooks evaluation..                                              9
3. Primary teacher training
- School Management.                                                  3
B. Educational Management
.1. Training of Administrative Staff
- Adult training and management .12
2. Educational management
- Planning .95
- Budgeting .98
- Human resources .85
3. GEPp
- Administration/Management .10
- Procurement .12
- Accounting.                                                         6
C. Higher Eeducaffon
3. Faculty of Economics
- Refresher courses ..................                              110
- Post-graduate fellowships .216
- Administrativetraining .2..... .24
- Statistics, management, accounting,
library organization .24



- 61 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 6
ANGQLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
A.SUPERVISIO. SUMMARY
1.    Bank Supervision input. Regular supervision needs are described in table 1 below. In
addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, procurement and disbursement actions,
audit review, etc.. .are estimated to require an average of twelve staff weeks of various specialists
inputs per annum.
2.    Borrower's contribution to supervision
(a) Progress reports will be submitted twice a year, in April and October; they will
comprise a summary of implementation under each project component, as well as financial tables.
The GEPP will collect inputs from each responsible head of component and prepare the reports
which will be reviewed by the PCC before sending them to IDA.
(b) Once a year, in November 1 at the latest, a joint Government/IDA mission would be
undertaken to review the draft investment and recurrent education budgets to ensure the
application and financing of the reform; in addition, and by May 30, 1995 at the latest, a
Government/IDA mid-term review would be undertaken to assess progress in achieving the
project development objectives; to facilitate this review, the Government will prepare by April 15,
1995 at the latest, a mid-term project review document to be furnished, four weeks prior to the
review, to IDA and all the departments and agencies involved in project implementation.
(c) The GEPP will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision
missions and for providing information to them.
(d) Mission briefing and wrap up meetings will be chaired by the Vice-Minister of
General Education and, in his/her absence, by the Director of GEPP and will include all heads of
departments and agencies concerned.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 6
Table 1: IDA supervision and input into key activities
Staff
Schedule            Activities                  Skill requirements         weeks
06/92               Review of conditions of     Educator                    4
effectiveness              Architect
11/92               First Supervision          Educator                     8
First review of PIP/PEP    Economist
Management specialist
Architect
05/93               Supervision                 Educator                    6
Management specialist
Architect
11/93               Supervision                Educator                     8
Second review of PIP/PEP    Architect
Management specialist
Economist
05/94               Supervision                Educator                     6
Management specialist
Architect
10/94               Supervision                Educator                     6
Third review of PIP/PEP    Management specialist
Architect
05/95               Supervision                 Educator                     8
Mid-term review            Management specialist
Architect
Economist
11/95               Supervision                Educator                     6
Fourth review of PIP/PEP    Management specialist
Economist
05/96               Supervision                 Educator                    4
Managent specialist
10/96               Supervision                Educator                     6
Fifth review of PIP/PEP    Management specialist
Economist



- 63 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 3 of 6
05/97               Supervision               Educator                     6
Management specialist
Architect
01/98               Completion                iiducator                   10
Architect



- 64 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 4 of 6
B. PROJECT OBJECTII         AND EVALUATION
Objectives. The project objectives are to start correcting the major inefficiencies in the
education sector and prepare a strategy for the overall rehabilitation, revitalization and progressive
expansion of the education system by:
(a)   improving the quality of education through (i) strengthening the national Institute
for Educational Research and Developmewnt to enable it to carry out its functions
of producing relevant curricula, teaching materials, examinations and evaluation
systems;(ii) provision of textbooks for the demonstration and secondary schools;
(iii) establishing a prototype Primary Teachers college; and (iv) rehabilitating and
constructing primary and secondary schools to be organized along the new 6-3-3
structure;
(b)   strengthening the management capacity of the education sector by:
developing a capacity for the training of the sector's administrators; (b) improve
the central institutions capabilities for data collection, planning, budgeting and
financial managesment; and (c) assisting MOE in its efforts toward
decentralization;
(c)   improving the teaching of economics and prepare for addressing development and
efficiency issues in higher education by: (i) increasing the quality of inputs at the
faculty of economics and (ii) enhancing the university
management information system.
(d)   studies and preparation of future investments
C. KEY PERPFOMANC,E IND IATORS
For monitoring progress with regard to these changes, the government and the Bank have
agreed on the following key performance indicators. They will form the basis of progress reports
and be jointly reviewed bu the Government and the bank on an annual basis and on the occasion
of the mid-term review.



Pefrance IngdiatOrs
.91          92           93       9         95      96   197    95
a) S_ucte SW  sebina time in dem  on  hools o wA.:
- hnple_at   of tw  edbe ucation aRmau  in
anl arocla                                                                                                                             $J       IN ALL NEW SCHOOLS
- Reducton of dal to two in ame primary a.n
Iowa SnIdu7 wbola                                                                                                                               Di ALL NEW SCHOOLS
b) Cwfv.k
- Ct,mpbo and  hbcdoao of th adaptd primary,
towe and uppe icoadary curicb ulan al mw olb                                                                               DBC                  DiW IN ALL NEW SCHOOLS
- NumbU   of textbooks dalibued to th deamaxigra
and upFW acandary coob                                                                                                    23500
- Toal  aI_ of libra  books proided go
sccndary Kcoob and to the Fulty of Ecommics                                                                               1750 1?
- Impkm4kation of the m  coma of admnaislon,
duato of tiiug and uawiculm.                                                                                                              S
2.                         SW    t
- Comypklo of reabiiation of GEPP                                                                                 DEC
Nuber of prm   and scoalry schools rhabtad
and co_sunucted                                                                                                                                                                   ON
Number of pimy and ecodary whoob  powvided wihR
hrture equiwand eduml namia                                                                                       -:                             5
Cao bioD of ie INIDE, Pamay Twa  Taing                                                                                                    ;
Colege d the Center for Taining of Adniiniatra                                                                    .SEf
and thOa  cquiprori                                                                                                       _
3. StaffDcv hoomer.
-NumberofamaxsaWad type of local traiS.ng
pMcbd for AdladaM nwvEd and comiphlcd
ll        ft-y                                                                                                                6          1$      30      34      34      34
- Number of mamodhs of overea fellowsi,ps
awnrd                                                                                                                         30      ,         105      70      12
- Number of manluths of coeauftants, fiom odter than
the admm    o  taining cener, uted snam aly
for taini  of locl aff ,i ____
4. Studies
- Number of studi co_un d and cosnpeed                                                                            1 3/         2          115     2 _1
- Sdies folow up and deciom                                                                                                 '__.:
10
Lfl
0



- Sbn. of gi aetsic. mnedm budget is dkn. tet
gov P-mem w bdg                                                                                    12.5
- SbU. of dacadtm -aWpl   budgahe i   o .d                                                           WA
soy  c_ei_eaSgdd                                                                                              .NIA
* Pagcwauaof lwd.cadmI-a su  budget aflacatd
So qualky hetaL trx*ob and wwtrncl aeodd%
_sac I t   ing mpevk   CSOW I  poubly by
- AMOS of                 beeSha Ncn et bgd laooed So
achod mietmue                                                                                      NrA     1.5          IS S4              1.5      5      I.S   1.5
'ear of Oim-"   review
If      Of wih SOW It X FPamy of Ecou_ica
ZI      To be defad acbyou
34oHghe UAteaf m  d EAacsbmc Peivteeco
it      cost and Iomaca, Nowo axkaty
V       Teactai   aId pci         a  acoybod i1u   aid        prcM
ZI      Tobe db4 bd ea  year
0
asVW



AINEX 3. 6
- 67 -
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCNEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(In USS mitlian)
URTER                 DISSURSEJENTS             ACCUMULATED              UNDISURSED
l _____________________  ____________________ _        D I SWRSENENTS               BALANCE
FY93                                                                               __     l
2                       1.7                      1.7                      2,.4
3                       0.7                      2.4                      24.7
4                       1.0                      3.4                      23.7
F Y94            _________
1                       1.3                      4.7                      22.4
2                       2.')                      6.7                     20.4
3                       2.7                       9.4                     17.7
l4                      3.0                      12.4                     14.7
FY95             _       _      _             ___                  ___
1                       3.2                      15.6                     11.9
2                       3.5                      19.1                     7.4
3                       2.5                      21.6                     5.5
4                       1.2                      22.8                     4.3
FY96___________
1                       0.7                      23.5                     3.6
2                       0.7                      24.2                     2.9
3                       0.6                      24.8                     2.3
4~                      0.6                     25.4                      1.7
FY97
1                       0.6                     26.0                      1.1
2                       0.5                      26.5                     0.6
3                       0.3                      26.8                     0.3
4                       0.2                      27.0                     0.1
FY98
1                       0.1                     27.1                      0.0



- 68 -                          ANNEX3
Page 1 of 2
ANGOLA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
REF NO                   DOCUMENTS
GEPNERAL
1.    Ministerio da Educagao; situagao actual da Educacao e Ensino e medida de
emergencia, Luanda, 1984/ Ministry of Education; current situation of education and teaching
andways and means of adressing them, Luanda, 1984.
2.    Ministerio da Educacao; relatorio de balango do trabalho realizado pelo grupo de
pron6stico do Ministerio da Educagao da Republica Popular de Angola do mes de marco ao
mes de junho de 1986/ Ministry of Education; report of the evaluation task force Ministry's
of Education of A.ngola; 1986.
3. Ministerio da Educawao; orientagoes do Mlnisterio de Educaao para as tarefas
prioritArias a desenvolver no Ensino de Base Regular;19871 Ministry's of Education guidance
regarding the priority tasks for the development of Basic Education; 1987.
4.    Fundagao Callouste Gulbelian; Universidade Agostinho Neto, estudo global; Maio
1987/Callouste Gulbekian Foundation; Agostiho Neto University's global study; May 1987.
5.    World Bank; Angola: Education Sector Report; March 1988;
6.    Ministerio da Educacao; Reformula;ao do sistema de educacao e ensino; Setembro
19901 Ministry of Education; Reformllation of the Education System; September 1990.
7.    Ministerio da Educacao; Universidad Agostinho Neto; Proposta de ReformnIa;ao des
actividades academicas da faculdade de economia da Universidad Agosinho Neto; Setembro
19901 Ministry of Education; Agostinho Neto University; Proposed project for the up daftg
of the academic acivities of the department of economics of the Agostinho Neto University;
September 1990.
8.    Mlnistre de L'Educatios; Projet de Renforcement des Secteurs Sociaux, volet
education; requ8te du Gouvernement; Juin 1991/ Ministry of Education; Social Sector
Rehabilitation Project; education component; Government request; June 1991.



-69 -                           AN          3.7
Page 2 of 2
WC)RRING PAPERS
9.    Ministere de I'Education; Premier Projet Education: aspects quaitaifs du modtle de
demonstation; Decembre 19911 Ministry of Education; First Education Project quaitative
aspects of the demonstration model; December 1991.
10.    Ministere de I'Education; Premier Projet Education: Architecture et genie cii;
Decembre 1991/ Ministry of Education; First Education Project Architectare and civil works;
December 1991.
11.    Minisre de l'Education; Premier Projet Education: Istut Pedagogique National;
Decembre 1991/ Mnisty of National Education; First Education Project National
PesIagogical Intitute; December 1991.
12.    Ministbre de l'Education; Premier Projet Education: Instit t National de l'Education;
Decembre 1991;/ Ministry of Education; First Educaion Project National stitute of
Education; December 1991.
13.    Ministbre de l'Education; Premier Projet Education Education: AmElioration des
Capacites de Gestion du Ministbre; Decembre 1991/ Ministry of Education; First Education
Project; Improvement of the Ministry's Management Capacity; December 1991.
14.    Ministbre de lIEducation; Premier Projet Education: Centre de formaion des
admini S du sectur; Dembre 19911 Ministry of Education; First Education Project;
Center for the trang of the secto-'s administrars; Decemberl991.
15.    Mnistere de MTducation; Premier Projet Education: Renorcement du Systme
d'informaion et de gesgdon de l'UnITenite; Decembre 1991/ Ministry of Education; First
Education Project; Strengthening of the University's information and management system;
December 1991.
16.    M1nistbre de lEducation; Universite Agostinho Neto; Premier Projet Education:
Amelioration  ualtative de la aculte d'economie; Dcembre 1991/ Ministry of Educaion;
University Agostnho Neto: Qualitative improvement of the faculty of economics, Decmber
1991.
17.    Mlnistbre de lEtducation Nationale; Cabinet d'Etudes, de Planification et des Projets:
Division des Const-ucions et des Equipemens; Decembre 1991/ Ministry of Education;
Office of Studies, planing and Projects: Division of Constuction and Equipment; December
1991.



- 70 -
AiNNEXR 3.8
ANGOLA
FRT EDUCATTON PROJECT
ESTIMATED SChEDTULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(In `USS milion)
ACCUMULATED    UNDISBURSED
QUARTER    DISBURSEMENT   DISBURSEMENTS  BALANCE
FYi93
2             1.7                1.7               25.4
3             0.7                2.4               24.7
4             1.0                3.4               23.7
FY94
1             1.3                4.7              22.4
2             2.0                6.7               20.4
3             2.7                9.4               17.7
4             3.0               12.4               14.7
FY95
1             3.8               16.2               10.9
2             3.5                19.7               7.4
3             2.0               21.7               5.4
4             1.1               22.8               4.3
FY96
1             0.7               23.5               3.6
2             0.7               24.2                2.9
3             0.6               24.8               2.3
4             0.6               25.4                1.7
FY97-
1             0.6               26.0                1.1
2             0.5               ;..5                0.6
3             0.3               26.8               0.3
4             0.2               27.0                0.1
FY98
1             0.1               27.1               0.0



KENYA w A 9a ^                            ANGOLA                                    IBRO 23598
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
ZAIRE          TANZANIA            PROJECT ELEMENTS: Al in LUANDA ex':p, ph  oi:ir     c,., n*OD
1, DEVELOPMENT OF A DEMONSTRATION MODEL FOR      0     SELECTED TOWNS
MALAWJ         EDUCATION:
SCHOOLREHABILTATIONANDCONSTRUCTION            ®     PROVINCE CAPITALS
Atlan1tic      AN(OL                                                NATIONAL INSTIUT FOR EDUCATIONAL                    NTOA  AIA
AIIOQI{C  )   ANGOLA    m   s 2  IrSW       CSl RN~~~~~~~~,AND EKnRCHANTTVELOOPMEWT                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
I    PRMARY TEACHER COLLEGE
OceO    J                     ZMMBIA             -) *AJN ROADS
II. EDUCATION MANAGEMENT:
*   TRNINO OF ADINISTRATIVESTAFF               I       RAILROADS
NAMIBlA   r>  EDUCAONA.L MANAGEMENT                                                                4.    AJEORIS
\U.NIGHER EDUCATION:                             4      ORTS
a   0 o _SvvCONGO e_n      r        I^         *16     UNNrESITYSMANAOEM ENTINFORMATIONSYSTEM               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
o   FACULTY OF ECONOMICS                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<1/ r   aP r        \                         M~~~~~~~~~~~ STUDIES AND PREPARATION OF f UTURE INVESTMEN rS
COsND                                                                      KM ES  0              loo              20      Tb 300
(QU       a .du* 100           200        3i0 400  F            C
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itto u\ of Tb. V/d _E-'k
Z AIRE         t                                                                    02 
\ \                     /   \   ~~~~~ZAIRE                                              -
ThsGmp  has .aatoonoio.o   d
,2                               ToW-t, / - '    NA            Ib                                                                 sga
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fi _\                                                       cm  lUiDAjS 
l !S S N'D^IATANCO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anCd is for "v
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUANDA                                        n         +             an  the bo1t   ha.
~~ \+    <   uf  r  --t  -       >-                    ISALFRlSO~~~~~~~~ZD nt W
ATLANTIC        \SPENGO                                                                             +  R< -- 
I        _<8CUS~~~~~UAZA  ASLtJU
OiCFAN                    ,M                             |                                UN                                       /
|   Na=                                                               =;  iX    >1l | XZ4BIA l~~~~~BI
12 *                                                                                                                                         16'20   4J
D1 RC1 19A 2



