Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13228-UA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UKRAINE
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 21, 1995
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Karbovanets (Krb)
Exchange rates: Krb per U.S. dollar
September 1993    16,460 = US$1
March 1994        30,153 = US$1
September 1994    48,954 = US$1
December 1994   108,367 = US$1
January 1995     125,000 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BPD            Bread Products Department of the MOAF
BOU            Bank Ukraina
DUS            Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability (of plant varieties)
ERR            economic rate of return
FRR            financial rate of return
FSU            Former Soviet Union
GNP            Gross National Product
IA             Implementing Agencies
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ISTA           International Seed Testing Association
LA             Loan Agreement
MOAF           Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOF            Ministry of Finance
PMU            Project Management Unit
PSC            Project Steering Committee
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SCSQC          State Commission for Seed Quality Control
SCTPPV         State Commission for Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties
SENATECH       Commercial Enterprise of UAAS for Sugarbeet Seed Production
SU             Seed Ukraine - Association of seed breeders and producers
UAAS           Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences
UKRSACHAR   Parastatal Ukrainian Sugar Production Corporation
UkrExImBank   Ukraine Export Import Bank
UPOV           Union Pour le Protection des Obtentions Vegetale (International
Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants)
VAT            value added tax
VCU            Value for Cultivation and Use of Plant Varieties



UKRAINE
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENrS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................
I. BACKGROUND   ..................1...................
A. Introduction  .............................1.........
B. Recent Economic Developments .                 ............................1
C. The Agricultural Sector ................................... 2
D. National Seed System   ...................................  4
E. Bank Assistance Objectives and Strategy .......................   12
F.  Lessons from  Previous Bank Involvement ......................   12
HI. THE PROJECT  ................ ..                            ...................   14
A. Project Objective .....................................   14
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement .........                    ...................   14
C. Summary Description ................................... 15
D. Detailed Features .....................................   15
E.  Project Cost .....................................                                          20
F. Financing ...................................... 20
G. Flow of Funds ........................... 22
H. Terms and Conditions for Onlending  .......                    ..................  22
1.  Procurement .....................................                                           23
J.  Disbursements   .....................................   26
HI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ...................................  29
A. Organization and Management .                ............................  29
B. Schedule of Implementation . .............................. 31
C. Accounts and Audits ...................................   33
D. Reporting and Evaluation ................................. 33
E. Bank Supervision .....................................   33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in September 1994 which included A.H. Uhlig (Task Manager),
M. LAIndell (Agro-Industrial Specialist) and M.C.-E. Buechting (Seed Enterprise and Marketing Specialist). The project was identified
by a joint Bank and FAOABRD Cooperative Program mission in August 1993. Project preparation was carried out by two Bank missions
(October/November 1993 and March 1994) led by the Task Manager and which included 0. Honisch (Agriculturist). M. Lundell (Agro-
lndustrial Specialist). M.C.-E. Buechting (Seed Enterprise Specialist). P.G. Dickie (Plant Breeding Specialist). W. Couvillion (Financial
Analyst) and A.R. Craft (Business Management and Banking Specialist). Peer Reviewers included J.P. Srivastava and L. Engstnnd.
The Division Chief is Geoffrey Fox and the Department Director is Basil Kavalsky.
-1-



-i'-
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................................. 35
A. Benefits  .......................................                                 35
B. Justification  .......................................   36
C. Risks.         ......................................                             37
D. Environmental Aspects  .....................  ....  .....  .    .   38
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......    ...........  .                     .    .   39
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations ......................  39
B. Recommendation ...................................... 40
ANNEXES
1.     Seed Market Prospects ....................................  41
A. Sunflower ........................................   41
B. Sugarbeet  ........................................   42
C. Maize  ........................................                                   43
2.     Profiles on Seed Enterprises  ............... .................  45
A. Maize Seed Production Company .......               ....................  45
B. Sunflower Seed Production Company  ........................  53
C. Sugarbeet Seed Production Company .........................  61
3.  Detailed Cost and Phasing                 ..69
4.  Financial and Economic Analysis                ..75
5.     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training    .          .81
6.  Project Implementation Plan                ..104
7.  Procurement Plan and Schedule                ..107
TABLES IN TEXT:
1.1  Agriculture Production Development.                                                     3
2.1 Estimated Project Cost .21
2.2 Financing Plan .22
2.3  Summary of Procurement Arrangements .25
2.4  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .27
3.1 Implementation Schedule .32
4.1    Estimated Project Seed Production and Markets .....................  36
FIGURES:
3.1    Project Organization  ............................... 30
MAP:
Project Sites (IBRD 26088-R)



UKRAINE
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUiMMARY
Borrower:         Ukraine
Beneficiaries and
Executing Agencies: Private Seed Production Companies;
Regulatory Agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF);
and Institutes of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences (UAAS).
Loan Amount:      US $32.0 million
Terms:            Standard IBRD terms with 17 years maturity including five years of grace.
Onrending Terms:  Subloans to the seed production enterprises ($US 23.9 million, 75% of
Bank loan proceeds) would carry an interest rate spread that is 4.30
percentage points above the Bank's lending rate and would be repayable
in up to eleven years, including a maximum of four years of grace. Loan
funds benefitting public regulatory agencies, the UAAS and the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and technical assistance to the seed enterprises
would be passed on as budgetary allocations (25 % of Bank loan proceeds).
Objectives:       (a) Improvements in agricultural productivity and agricultural export
earnings through the supply of quality hybrid seeds for maize, sunflower
and sugarbeet; and (b) development of a competitive seed system through
privatization of seed production.
Description:      The proposed project would provide financing, technical assistance and
training for: (a) the development and initial operation of three private
hybrid seed production enterprises; (b) improvements in the regulatory
framework of the national seed system; and (c) the strengthening of the
germplasm maintenance and improvement.
Benefits:         The expected benefits from the seed production component would be the
demonstration of the viability of private seed production. The quality
hybrid seeds produced under the project would increase agricultural
productivity through lower seeding rates and higher yields. It would also
increase agricultural exports and/or substitute for imports. The improved
regulatory framework would facilitate the international competitiveness of
the Ukrainian seed system through improved plant breeders' rights, variety
registration and better access to foreign sources of germplasm. It would
also stimulate the development of a private seed industry. The germplasm
maintenance and improvement program would benefit domestic seed
breeding and, in so doing, assist domestic seed production and seed
exports in the medium and long term. The technical assistance for a study



-iv-
of the agricultural research system would be a first step towards the
development of a sustainable agricultural research system.
Risks:            The main risks for meeting the project's objectives are: (a) limited local
experience in managing commercial seed production enterprises in a
market-oriented economy; (b) Government's propensity to "overregulate"
the domestic seed industry; and (c) the lack of experience in implementing
Bank supported projects on the part of all implementing entities. These
risks are worth taking in light of the robust financial and economic
benefits of the project. They would be minimized by obtaining assurance
from Government for establishing and maintaining a liberal pricing
marketing and trade system for seed; by providing technical assistance and
training for needed improvements in the seed regulatory framework; and
by establishing a PMU supported by technical assistance.
Environment:      In supporting the production of hybrid seeds, the project would provide
a type of agricultural input which would allow for substantial increase in
agricultural production and productivity without embarking on
environmentally taxing technologies. The potential occupational hazards
through the generation of dust and the handling of hazardous chemicals in
the project's seed plants would be mitigated by appropriate plant designs.
Est. Project Cost:   US $ 63.3 million (of which 48% is foreign cost and 52% local cost)
Financing Plan:               IBRD               US$ 32.0 million
Seed Enterprises    US$ 31.3 million
Total             US$ 63.3 million
Est. Cumulative Disbursements:   FY96            US$ 13.0 million
FY97              US$ 27.5 million
FY98              US$ 30.0 million
FY99              US$ 31.5 million
FY2000            US$ 32.0 million
Closing Date:                 September 30, 2000
Economic Rate of Return:       19%
Poverty Category:             N.A.
Enviromnental Categeorv:       "B"
Map:                          IBRD 26088



UKRAINE
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1          With a land area of 0.6 million km2 and a population of 52 million, Ukraine is
the second largest country in Europe (after the Russian Federation), and the fifth largest in terms
of population. GNP per capita was estimated at US $1,912 for 1993 down from US $2,359 in
1992, and from US $2,635 in 1991.
1.2         Ukraine declared its independence from the Soviet Union in August 1991. It now
faces the immense challenge of creating the institutions of a sovereign state, and at the same time
securing the transition from a centrally planned to a market-based economy. Until recently,
efforts at stabilization and structural reform have been piecemeal; under the newly elected
government, Ukraine's first comprehensive reform program has been formulated in an attempt
to deal with the critical issues of macroeconomic instability and restructuring of the economy,
including the acceleration of agricultural transformation.
B. Recent Economic Developments
1.3         The economic decline since independence has been dramatic. By the end of 1993,
the cumulative fall in real GDP since 1989 reached 40%. This trend accelerated in 1994:
officially recorded industrial output declined almost 40% in January-April compared with the
same period in 1993. The rate of inflation rose to almost 5,000% in 1993 up from 1,445% in
1992. In 1994, the inflation rate came down markedly, reaching 4 to 5% per month in the
second and third quarters, primarily on account of flagging demand, itself the result of a large
drop in real wages and a more stringent credit policy.
1.4         While external shocks, mostly brought on by the collapse of the former Soviet
Union (FSU), have contributed to the economic decline, so too have past policies of the
Government. Up until October 1994, Ukraine lacked a coherent macroeconomic stabilization
and structural reform program. The Government resorted to administrative measures to manage
the economy. Price controls (including fixed administered prices, advance notification of price
adjustments, and an array of controls on profit margins) were imposed; the state order system
controlled the flow of key commodities; the scope of export quotas and licenses was extensive;
and the compulsory surrender of foreign exchange earnings at exchange rates well below market
levels was enforced.



2                                                       Ukraine Seed Development Project
1.5          In his inaugural speech to Parliament on October 12, 1994, the President
announced Ukraine's first comprehensive economic reform program. This program has
stabilization aspects which aim to bring about a reduction in inflation by implementing tight
fiscal and monetary policies.  Structural reform  measures focus on promoting enterprise
restructuring and competition by: (a) removing the inhibiting role of the state towards the private
sector and letting markets function; (b) transforming state enterprises into commercial entities;
and (c) hardening the budget constraint on enterprises. Specific measures include the lifting of
most price controls, the unification of the exchange rate, the elimination of most export quotas,
a sharp reduction of subsidies on bread and public utilities, the adjustment of imported energy
prices to full cost recovery levels, as well as the implementation of a more targeted social safety
net. The package of policy and structural reforms should create a conducive environment for
implementing reforms and privatization in the agricultural and food sectors.
C. The Agriculture Sector'
1.6          Agriculture has historically been an important sector in the diversified Ukrainian
economy, together with a large industrial sector and a relatively small service sector. Currently,
agriculture contributes about 30% to Net Material Product (NMP), employs some 20% of the
labor force, and contributes approximately 30% to Ukraine's total merchandise trade. Given the
country's abundant natural resources, agriculture should continue to play a significant role in the
country's economic development.
Resources and Land Tenure
1.7          Out of Ukraine's total land area of 60.4 million ha, 41.9 million ha are classified
as agricultural land. Much of this land has highly productive deep black soil. Ukraine's climate
is mainly temperate, and it has a flat to moderately rolling topography, allowing large-scale
mechanized agricultural production systems. As of 1992, about 4.8 million people or about 20%
of the labor force were directly employed in agriculture. The size of the agricultural labor force
has declined over the last two decades both in terms of absolute numbers and in its share of the
total labor force. During the Soviet regime, agricultural land was operated under three basic
types of tenure: (a) centrally controlled collective farms, or kolkhozes, in which output and all
assets, except land, was jointly owned by the members; (b) centrally controlled state farms, or
sovkhozes, in which output and all assets were owned by the state; and (c) private "individual
subsidiary farms," consisting of household plots of kolkhoz or sovkhoz members, and gardens
and vegetable plots allocated to urban workers.
I     A detailed review of Ukraine's agriculture and current policy issues is presented in "UKRAINE-Food
and Agriculture Sector Review" June 30, 1994. Report No. 11880-UA.



Chapter 1                                                                             3
1.8          Since independence in 1989, various forms of private land tenure have emerged,
and the structure of tenure continues to change. The total number of agricultural enterprises has
grown and continues to increase substantially, largely due to the entrance of 35,000 new
individual private farms and, to a lesser extent, the splitting of large collective farms into smaller
units. Agricultural land in individually managed private farms and household plots is currently
equivalent to about 13% of total farmland and contributes about one-third of Ukraine's
agricultural output.
Performance
1.9          Although agricultural production grew until the late 1980's at an average rate of
about 2 % per annum, factor productivities remained low, despite some of the best land resources
within the temperate climate zone. Crop yields and conversion factors in the livestock industry
are 25-50% lower than in developed countries with comparable resource endowments.
Inefficiencies in the system of central economic management and collective agriculture, along
with an increasingly outdated production technology, low-quality inputs (including seeds) and
a poorly performing agricultural marketing and processing system, prevented the sector from
realizing its high potential.
1.10         Agricultural  output
decreased by about 20% between
1990 and 1992 (Table 1.1). The
production of principal crops such           Table 1.1: Agriculture Production Development
as   cereals,  sugarbeets,  and                       (1%61970 = 100)
sunflowers, for example, declined                   1971/80  1980/90  1991  1992   1993
between 1986/90 and 1992/93 by   Total Agnculture    121      133    120   110   108
11%   percent, 28%, and  18%,   Public Enterprises    126     143    123   101    95
respectively.    Declines  in  the    Private Enterprises    108  114    114   128   135
population  and  production  of
livestock   were   even   higher,
reaching about 30% during that period.
1.11         With the decline in domestic production, the breakdown of the inter-republican
trade system, and the adoption of extensive trade restrictions, foreign trade in agricultural
products declined dramatically to a fraction of its pre-independence level. During the late
1980's, Ukraine exported some five million tons of grains, two million tons of dairy products,
and between three and four million tons of sugar. It also had been a significant exporter of
improved germplasm to the FSU and Eastern Europe. By 1993, these exports had declined by
more than 80%. During the same period, imports consisting mainly of feed grains declined by
about 50%.
1.12         This reduction in production and trade undermined the traditional role of
agriculture as a domestic source of food, employment, and export income. The decline also



4                                                       Ukraine Seed Development Project
compromised agriculture's potential role in the reconstruction of the country's economy. In
addition, as a result of heavy subsidization of food consumers, agriculture became a growing
fiscal burden and a significant factor in macroeconomic destabilization.
Policies
1.13         Until recently, the Government of Ukraine made only small steps to reform
agriculture because the sector's problems were widely assumed to be transitory and surmountable
with greater access to advanced technology, better management, and temporary subsidies. The
Government also moved slowly because of the fear that rapid reforms could lead to a collapse
of production. However, macro-economic instability and the deterioration in 1993-94 of the
financial and organizational capacities of the public sector to substitute for market relations
between enterprises in the farm, input supply, and output marketing sectors made it clear that
profound liberalization and privatization in agriculture (as well as in the rest of the economy)
are essential for the country's economic recovery and development of agriculture.
1.14         The agricultural reform program  introduced by the current administration is
consistent with the recommendations made in the Bank's Food and Agricultural Sector Review
and meets the essential requirements for the viability of the proposed Seed Development Project.
Agricultural factor and product prices are being liberalized, state orders for agricultural produce
are to be discontinued, and the State will procure the goods it needs for its budgetary
organizations (ministries, armed forces, schools, hospitals, etc.) though competitive tender on
the market. Virtually all export quotas on agricultural products are being abolished.2 These
measures have been adopted in other sectors of the economy as well. The Seed Development
project would be the first vehicle for the Bank to support the implementation of these reform
measures in the agricultural sector.
D. National Seed System
Historical Background and Role
1.15         Ukraine has a long tradition in plant breeding and in supplying improved
germplasm to Western and Eastern Europe. Prior to World War I, most West European seed
breeders operated in Ukraine because the dry weather at harvest time helped produce seeds of
superior quality, compared with those in Western Europe. After 1917, Western involvement in
2      Temporary quotas are still in place on food wheat exports. In addition, discriminatory taxation
practices against private domestic and foreign trade enterprises are to be discontinued, infrastructure for
handling the flow of agricultural inputs and outputs are to be included in the country's privatization programs,
and land privatization and the establishment of a legal framework for the development of a land market are to
be accelerated.



Chapter 1                                                                              5
Ukrainian seed production came to an end, and exports were only continued to the republics of
the Soviet Union, for which Ukraine became a major supplier of germplasm and foundation
seeds,3 especially for maize and sugarbeet seeds, and to a lesser extent for sunflower seeds.
Today, with the mounting economic difficulties since independence, plant breeding has suffered
significantly, the production of quality seed has declined, and with it the capacity to maintain
levels of crop production and exports of grains and seeds.
1.16         Seed is an important input for crop production for two reasons. First, it normally
represents about 10% of the variable production cost of crops, and second, the quality of the
seeds used determines decisively the productivity of crop production through seeding rates and
yields. Varietal improvements are generally estimated to have contributed 60% of the increase
in crop yields in Ukraine, which averaged about 1 to 2% per year. All crop producers in
Ukraine use improved seeds extensively. The percentage of crops planted with hybrid seed is
100% for maize, 40% for sunflower, and about 30% for sugarbeet. However, the physical and
genetic quality of both open-pollinating seed varieties and hybrids is mixed and to a large extent
responsible for the high seeding rates and relatively moderate yield levels prevailing in Ukrainian
agriculture.
1.17         The domestic seed system annually produced about 6-7 million tons of seeds for
grains, oilseeds, vegetables, and fodder crops. In addition, 5-6 million seed units (100,000 seeds
per unit) of sugarbeet seeds and 3.5 million tons of seed potatoes were produced. This met the
domestic demand for seed potatoes and allowed for significant exports, mainly to Russia, of
sugarbeet, maize, and winter wheat seeds. Since independence in 1990, however, seed exports
have declined drastically. Drought reduced the production of maize seeds in 1993 and left the
country with a need to import while exports of sugarbeet foundation seeds ceased because of
trade restrictions imposed by the Government. Currently, Ukraine exports annually 90,000 tons
of Fl (first generation hybrid of two different parent lines) and open-pollinating seed and
between 5,000 and 10,000 tons elite seed mainly to the FSU republics. Almost 70,000 tons of
these are exported under trade agreements between the Government of Ukraine and the
governments of other FSU states.4
Development of Varieties
1.18         Varietal development and maintenance of seed stocks is the responsibility of the
Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences (UAAS), which was established as an independent
3     Foundation seed is the seed population used to produce the seeds planted by the farmer (commercial
seeds). Foundation seed is also known as parent seed, basic seed, or elite seed.
4     The Fl and open-pollinating seeds consist of about 40,000 tons of seed for peas and oats, 25,000 tons
of maize seed, and 3-4,000 tons of seed for sugarbeet and oil crops. The total value of these seed exports is
approximately $90 million. The value of elite seed exports (com, sugarbeet, and some small grains) was about
$50 million in 1993.



6                                                   Ukraine Seed Development Project
Academy in 1991. It has 51 research institutes and a network of 126 experimental stations
specializing in testing new plant varieties. The most important research institutes are in Kyiv
(sugarbeet, maize, and soybeans), Dnipropetrovsk (maize and oilseeds), Odesa (cereals, maize,
and sunflower), Mironovskij (wheat), Kherson (fodder crops), and Kharkiv (maize and gene
bank). The UAAS has about 7,000 scientists; about 300 of them have Ph.D. degrees, and more
than 3,000 have Candidate of Science degrees.
Foundation Seed Production
1.19        The production of breeder and foundation seeds is carried out by 228 experimental
stations associated with the research institutes. These farms' primary responsibility is to produce
breeder and foundation seeds as directed by the institutes. The farms are allowed to engage in
other business, including food processing, as long as this does not interfere with their seed
production responsibility. Most of these farms have drying, conditioning, and storage facilities
to handle the seed crop.
Commercial Seed Production
1.20        The production of commercial seeds involves the multiplication of foundation
seeds into commercial generations, as well as the cleaning, sizing and chemical treatment of
seeds. The multiplication of all but sugarbeet seeds is currently carried out by specialized farms
licensed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF), and the seed processing of major
crops is done in seed plants owned by the Bread Products Department of the MOAF. In the
case of sugarbeet seeds, the multiplication is done by seed farms contracted by UKRSACHAR,
a state owned conglomerate of the Ukrainian sugar industry, and by three seed plants owned by
UKRSACHAR. Private seed production continues to be limited to a few joint ventures between
multinational seed companies and local partners, including public entities.
Seed Pricing
1.21        Seed prices used to be established by the MOAF. Prices for the breeder (UAAS),
the seed producer, conditioners and the ultimate seed users (farmers) were set at a fixed
percentage of the state procurement price established for the respective commodity for which
the seed was used. These percentages for the various types of seed (breeder, foundation,
commercial, etc.) were small in comparison to ratios of seed prices to output prices in Western
seed markets. In general, this meant low prices to the breeder, moderate to very attractive prices
to the seed-producing farms, low output prices for seed conditioning companies, and hence low
commercial prices to the farms as the final seed users. As a result, seed prices did not reflect
real demand and supply, and seed breeding and production was generally not a financially self-
sustaining activity, but rather dependent on public funding and considered an activity producing
a public good.



Chapter 1                                                                        7
1.22        Although seed pricing has been officially decontrolled, the fact that state
contracting still accounts for over 70% of all seed marketing means that prices still reflect the
old structure of controlled margins. The main reason for this is that the funds allocated for the
purchases under the state contract system were budgeted on the basis of the old seed price
structure, which made these budget per-ton-of-seed allocations into de facto maximum prices for
publicly procured seeds. The removal of price controls throughout the economy and reduction
of state contracts under the 1994 reform program will aid in reducing the MOAF's informal
ability to impose price regulations. By limiting state purchases to meet the needs of budgetary
organizations only, the Government is expected to withdraw from making purchases for all but
small quantities of commercial seeds. Thus, price formation in the foundation and commercial
seed markets will have to rely on the interaction of domestic supply and demand and Ukraine's
deeper integration into foreign seed markets.
Seed Marketing
1.23        The current system of marketing foundation and commercial seeds is changing
from one based on state orders to one of contractual arrangements between farmers and seed
suppliers, such as public entities (UAAS), state owned enterprises, collectives, and a few private
seed producers. Although formal price regulation and public control of seed marketing is no
longer mandated by law, practices still follow, to a considerable extent, the MOAF-administered
system of the past because of the monopolistic behavior of the largely public agents involved in
seed marketing and the lack of MOAF confidence in and experience with the workings of an
uncontrolled market. Foundation seed produced and conditioned by the experimental farms is
sold to the producers of commercial seeds (both hybrid and open-pollinated), who in turn sell
these seeds to the seed conditioning plants. It is estimated that in 1993 about 70% of these
transactions were subject to the state contracts but government involvement varies from crop to
crop.
1.24        In 1992/93, excess capacity at the UAAS seed conditioning plant at Trostianets
arose as a result of losing the foundation seed export market in Russia. The Institute for
Sugarbeet therefore decided to enter into the production of commercial seed at this facility and
formed the seed production association SENATECH5, which produces both foundation seed for
UKRSACHAR, as well as commercial hybrid seeds which are sold in Ukraine and abroad
(mostly Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan). SENATECH's sales of hybrid seeds reached about
1000 tons in 1993.
1.25        For sugarbeet seed, the primary customer for foundation seed (until 1992 the only
customer) is UKRSACHAR. It purchases the foundation seed, places it with state and collective
farms for the production of commercial seeds under contract, conditions the commercial seed
at one of its three seed plants, and sells it to the sugarbeet producers. UKRSACHAR then buys
SENATECH is an open joint stock company for the production of sugarbeet seed.



8                                                   Ukraine Seed Development Project
the sugarbeets from these producers and processes them into sugar. While UKRSACHAR pays
the producer of commercial seed at contract terms it has not always paid SENATECH the agreed
price for foundation seed.
1.26        For maize seed, the foundation seed produced by the UAAS institutes is sold to
state and collective farms for the production of F1 hybrid seeds (commercial seeds). While the
MOAF projects seed demand and supply for the following year, the institutes are effectively free
to sell their foundation seed to those organizations and companies who are prepared to enter into
contracts under the institutes' terms.6
1.27        The farms producing the Fl hybrid seeds sell their production (also under state
contracts) to the 105 seed plants belonging to the MOAF Department for Bread Products. The
seed plants dry and condition the seed and sell it to maize producers. The plants have an average
annual capacity of between 1,000 and 10,000 tons each. Most of them were constructed in the
1950's and, with one exception, were never refurbished or modernized. This outdated and badly
maintained equipment causes significant damage to the seeds during processing in these plants
compromising germination and seeding rates. Contracts between the seed producing farms and
the seed plants are entered into at the beginning of the production season. These contract prices
are heavily influenced by government recommended commodity prices.
1.28        For sunflower seed, the system is less developed than in the other crops. The
two institutes in Odesa and Zaporizhzhia have small, outdated seed plants with a capacity of
about 1,500 tons each. These plants sell the foundation seed to producers of commercial seed
(both hybrid and open-pollinated varieties), and then purchase the production of the foundation
seed back from the seed producers, condition it, and sell it to the sunflower producers either
directly or through the offices of the MOAF in each district. In 1993, these two plants produced
between 3,000 and 4,000 tons of hybrid seeds equivalent to about 50% of the country's annual
sunflower seed requirements. The rest of the seed requirements of the country are met mostly
with open-pollinated varieties, the production of which is organized by the MOAF in the
different districts of the country according to the seed needs forecasted by the MOAF for these
districts.
1.29        Recent developments have started to change the structure of the market. For
example, in sugarbeet seeds, SENATECH broke the monopoly of UKRSACHAR and increased
the degree of hybridization. It has also reopened some of the important export markets for
hybrid seeds, particularly in Russia and Kazakhstan. In maize, a U.S. company entered the
market in 1991/92 with a seed production plant near Rivne and later also built a seed dryer near
Cherkasy. Two private seed companies developed out of this venture, both of which are
competing with the seed plants of the MOAF. The UAAS Institute in Odesa started to produce
6     Seed Ukraine is a quasi-govermmental association of Ukrainian seed breeders and producers. Among
other duties, it is responsible for allocating commercial seed production for field crops (except sugarbeet) and for
issuing export licenses for seeds.



Chapter 1                                                                            9
maize seeds using fertile germplasm, which requires detasseling7 instead of using the traditional
male-sterility method. It was successful in managing the detasseling operations; it obtained
higher-quality seeds, and secured higher prices than those used for transactions under the state
contract system. Maize foundation and hybrid seed is also increasingly imported from other
republics of the FSU at prices comparable to those in other heavily discounted world markets.
1.30         In 1995, state orders have been discontinued for all products, including seeds.
Since Government purchases will be confined to those which meet the needs of budgetary
organizations (and no budgetary organizations are involved in seed reproduction and processing)
government seed purchases should include only small quantities of commercial seed. The vast
bulk of seed marketing is expected to take place under contracts between enterprises, with the
MOAF no longer expected to play an allocational or financial role. Deviations from the pricing
guidelines of the old MOAF system will become the norm rather then the exception as state-
owned enterprises are corporatized and become independent of MOAF directives.
Seed Trade
1.31         Import and export of seed is largely confined to the FSU and is done mainly via
intergovernmental agreements between the FSU republics. Seed imports have not been under
quota but are subject to licensing. Almost all seed exports have been handled under a quota and
licensing system.8 Under intergovernmental agreements, Fl hybrid exports in 1994 were set at
700 mt of sunflower seed and 12,500 tons of maize seed. The overall quotas for elite seeds for
1994 were 4,300 tons for grains and 27 tons for sunflower seed. Quotas for Fl seeds for
sunflower and maize (as well as other grains) are apparently not differentiated from the overall
quotas for grain and sunflower seed exports (2.5 million and 100,000 tons, respectively).
1.32         Export quotas used to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers by estimating
seed production and subtracting expected "domestic needs." The MOAF was responsible for
ensuring the availability of seed to meet the planned export levels under intergovernmental
agreements. Seed Ukraine (SU), an association of seed breeders and producers, was given
responsibility for verifying the quality of seed for export and for administering the Ministry's
quotas on seed exports. Licenses for export were issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Relations. In addition to the quota and licensing systems, agricultural commodities, including
seed, were subject to export taxes ranging from 10-30% in 1993. The export taxes for maize
seed and sunflower seed were 30%. These tariffs were eliminated in 1994. In addition to the
licensing procedures and export taxes, seed exports have been hampered by surrender
7     Detasseling: Method of removing the male part (tassel) from the maize plant which has been
designated as female parent.
a     With the exception of sugarbeet seed exports, which have been under license but not subject to
quantitative restrictions.



10                                                    Ukraine Seed Development Project
requirements on foreign currency earnings (with conversion at Government-controlled exchange
rates).
1.33         As of November 1, 1994, quotas on most exports from Ukraine were abolished:
seed exports are no longer subject to any quotas or licensing restrictions. The exchange rate has
been unified at the market rate; the surrender of foreign exchange earnings has been reduced and
this conversion is done at the inter-bank currency exchange rate. As a result, the anti-export
bias to which seeds have been subjected, appears to have been largely removed.
The Regulatory Framework
1.34         The formal regulatory framework for the seed system has evolved gradually since
the breakup of the FSU. Its most important elements include: (a) seed certification and
laboratory testing for seed quality, administered by the State Commission for Seed Quality
Control of the MOAF; (b) phytosanitary inspection service, administered by the Central State
Inspection of Plants of the MOAF; (c) registration of new plant varieties and testing for
distinctness to determine eligibility for plant variety protection, administered by the State
Commission for Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties of the MOAF; (d) the Plant Variety
Protection System, administered by the Patent Office; and (e) the registry of seed producers,
administered by SU. The most pertinent legislation regulating the industry consists of the
recently adopted Seed Law and the Law on Plant Variety Protection. The Seed Law is not
considered fully satisfactory by international standards.
Performance of the Seed System and Issues
1.35         The long-term performance of the seed system is probably best reflected in the
prevailing yield levels in crop production and the level of seed exports. While yields are
obviously influenced by systemic management problems at the farm level and the lack of timely
available recurrent inputs, it is clear that the yield gap of 25% to 50%, in comparison to
countries with similar ecological conditions, is at least partially attributable to the relatively low
quality of the domestic seeds. Over and above the mediocre performance during the Soviet
period, the system currently shows clear signs of deterioration, with the distinct possibility of
losing its capacity to supply improved seeds to the domestic producer and export markets. In
terms of reduced availability of improved seeds and lower agricultural production, the impact
of such a turn of events could be a decrease in domestic crop production and annual export
revenues on account of declining yields, resulting from the increasing use of degenerated open-
pollinated seeds. The loss in gross value of agricultural production associated with these
reductions are estimated to be equivalent to about $1 billion.9
9     The use of degenerated open pollinating seed is assumed to reduce yields by 20% or more in 1-2 years.
(continued...)



Chapter 1                                                                              11
1.36         The seed system has suffered from institutional, financial, and technical problems
similar to those of the agricultural sector as a whole. They are reflected in an inadequate quality
and quantity of improved seed available for domestic producers and for export. Factors peculiar
to the seed system which particularly affected the performance of seed breeding and production
include: (a) the isolation of breeding from international scientific developments and its protection
from international competition; (b) heavy dependence on public funding, which limits the
allocation of resources to levels that, under the current fiscal crisis, severely curtail further seed
development, the maintenance of the existing germplasm and breeding infrastructure and the
retention of specialized scientific staff; and (c) the increasingly outdated capital stock used by
the seed industry.
1.37         The Government is well aware of the importance of the seed industry for the
productivity of agriculture and it also recognizes the critical state in which the seed industry
finds itself. However, the MOAF tends to view technological backwardness as its main problem
and underestimates the pervasive constraints imposed on the seed system by administratively
determined access to seed breeding, production and processing, by administratively controlled
seed pricing, marketing and trade, and by the weak incentives of the prevailing public ownership
structure.
1.38         The Government has moved on establishing a legal basis for the seed system's
regulatory framework by passing in 1993 a law on Plant Variety Protection and a Seed Law
regulating the principles of seed production, release, and utilization. It is necessary, however
to harmonize these laws and regulations with related international conventions and to free the
domestic seed system from excessive public sector control if Ukraine is again to become a major
supplier of germplasm and seeds to the world markets, as well as a beneficiary of international
developments in the seed industry. To this end, plant variety protection legislation should be
harmonized with the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV),
and the Ukrainian regulations for seed certification and seed testing should be harmonized with
OECD and the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA) conventions. The system of
variety registration currently in place appears inefficient and overly expensive. Services for
registration and variety testing should be increasingly based on a self-financing basis by
introducing a system of user fees. In addition, the Seed Law would need to be adjusted to fully
reflect the liberalization of breeding, production, pricing, marketing and trade of seed in
accordance with the Government's economic reform program.
1.39         In 1993, as a result of the mounting problems in the supply of seeds, the
Government decided to embark on an investment program to construct ten new seed plants for
maize and sunflower seeds. The cost for the program was estimated at US $70 million, of which
about 90% were estimated to be foreign cost for imported equipment and machinery to be
9(. . continued)
This would reduce grain production by 8 million tons ($600 mnillion), sugar production by 900,000 tons ($300
million), and oilseed production by 600 thousand tons ($100 million). Other field crops would also suffer falls
in production.



12                                                 Ukraine Seed Development Project
financed by external borrowing. The Government requested financial support from the Bank for
the establishment of three of the ten plants, while the remaining seven of the program were to
be financed by bilateral and private foreign investment and operated as public enterprises under
the MOAF and SU. The proposed project responds to this Government request. Construction
of the parallel public program was scheduled for 1994, but financing difficulties have delayed
its implementation.
E. Bank Assistance Objectives and Strategy
1.40        The objective of Bank assistance to Ukraine is to support the transition to a market
economy. Economic and sector work, and project financing are focused on establishing an
economic and institutional environment conducive to: (a) private sector development; (b)
transferring public assets to the private sector; (c) realizing the agricultural potential; (d)
developing the financial sector; and (e) establishing a social safety net.
1.41        In agriculture, the immediate Bank objectives are to support continued market and
price liberalization, to establish competitive input-output marketing systems, and to assist in
providing essential inputs and technologies for the development of an efficient agricultural
production system. In parallel, but with results expected more in the medium term, as reforms
take hold, Bank support to agriculture would focus on promoting land tenure reform and the
establishment of a functioning land market, building sustainable extension and advisory services
for restructuring, and supporting privatized agricultural production, marketing, and processing
enterprises.
F. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
1.42        So far, experience in implementing Bank-supported projects in Ukraine is confined
to an Institution Building Project and a Rehabilitation Loan. Accordingly, there is only limited
country specific implementation experience on the Bank side and practically no exposure of the
Ukrainian institutions to the specific procedures governing the implementation of Bank
investment operations. These factors have been taken into account and are reflected in the
modest scope of the proposed project, the introduction of a Project Management Unit (PMU),
and the provision of technical assistance to the implementing agencies, including the PMU. The
mutual lack of experience in working with each other may require a supervision intensity
exceeding standard Bank allocations.
1.43        The Bank's experience worldwide with seed development projects suggests that:
(a)   interventions should embrace, to the extent practical, the whole seed system and
be oriented towards long-term growth as opposed to short-term, ad hoc
involvement;



Chapter 1                                                                          13
(b)   seed sector policies should be conducive to the development of a self-sustaining
seed industry and the active participation of the private sector;
(c)   the linkages between the seed system and agricultural research need to be
reinforced;
(d)   free-standing seed projects have performed better than interventions based on a
component approach; and,
(e)   investments in institutional development, technical assistance, and training have
generally been decisive elements for good performing seed projects.



II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objective
2.1         The principal objective of the project is to improve the national seed system's
capacity to produce high quality seed efficiently. In the short-term, the project aims to arrest
the decline in the domestic availability and exports of quality seed by supporting the
establishment of private production of high quality commercial seed using domestic and imported
germplasm. The project would facilitate the development of a competitive seed system in the
medium term by demonstrating the efficiency and effectiveness of private seed production, by
improving the regulatory framework for the seed system, and by assisting in the establishment
of a sustainable and efficient system for germplasm maintenance and plant breeding. With the
liberalization of pricing, marketing, and export (recently agreed with the Bank under the Ukraine
Rehabilitation Loan), domestic seed prices will rise substantially over the medium term reflecting
the contribution of quality seed to crop yields, thereby allowing seed production and processing
to become a financially self-sustaining activity. The seed enterprises will also enhance their
viability by exporting part of their output, mainly to FSU markets where Ukraine has a
demonstrated ability to sell quality hybrid seed.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.2         Following the Bank-Government discussions of the findings and recommendations
of the Food and Agriculture Sector Review, the Minister of Agriculture requested Bank
assistance for the rehabilitation of hybrid seed production. Such a project was identified as the
first possible Bank operation in agriculture because of: (a) the Government's priority for
modernizing seed production and its preparedness to liberalize seed pricing and marketing and
to open up seed production and marketing to the private sector; and (b) the attractive and robust
economics of producing and using hybrid seed, which protects the viability of such a project
even under the difficult economic circumstances in the country. In the absence of a well-
functioning financial intermediation system, the proposed project is confined to one processing
plant for each of the three major crops grown on the basis of hybrid seed. The project would
assist in the creation of new private enterprises to process commercial seed. These new
enterprises will be the direct competitors of the state enterprises under the MOAF, which have
monopolized commercial seed production. In addition to developing private seed production,
the Bank's intervention would also facilitate seed trade by strengthening the variety protection
and seed testing system and would pave the way for private plant breeding by strengthening plant
breeders' rights and introducing royalty payments to seed breeders.
2.3         The private sector approach of the proposed project is recognized by the
Government to be experimental and is seen as a vehicle to test and demonstrate the effectiveness
of an alternative model of seed production, marketing, and trade. Bank involvement would be
critical because the emphasis on privatization and on the requisite improvements in seed pricing,
marketing, and trade and in the regulatory framework are not sufficiently addressed. Bringing
about these changes in the institutional, economic, and regulatory framework would be beyond



Chapter 2                                                                       15
the reach of the private sector, without the formal agreement on these aspects reached with the
Govermnent within a Bank supported project. Bank participation would also be justified to help
ensure effective implementation in an environment in which there is no experience with
externally supported investment projects, and considerable policy and administrative instability.
These institutional, policy-building, and production objectives of the project are consistent with
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
C. Summary Description
2.4          The size and complexity of problems facing the national seed system and the risks
in effectively implementing a large multi-component project by institutions with largely untested
implementation capacity necessitate a small project based on selective interventions in the seed
system. The proposed interventions have been selected in light of their potential effectiveness
in meeting the stated project's objectives and the feasibility of their implementation in the
existing country environment.
2.5   To meet the project's short term objective of improving the supply of quality seed for
the domestic and export market, the project would provide financial and technical assistance for:
(a) the development of three private enterprises specializing in the multiplication of domestic and
imported parent hybrid seed for maize, sunflower, sugarbeet, and their processing and
marketing; and (b) the germplasm maintenance and development for three leading domestic
suppliers of hybrid maize, sunflower, and sugarbeet seed. To help meet the project's medium
term objective of developing a competitive seed system, the project would provide financial and
technical assistance for: (a) improving the regulatory framework for the seed system; (b) the
development of an agricultural research strategy and plan; and (c) the Ukrainian Institute for
Agro-Ecology and Biotechnology. In addition to these specific interventions in the seed system,
the liberalization of seed pricing, marketing, and trade implemented within the context of the
Government's economic reform program, would establish the enabling policy environment to
enhance the efficiency of the national seed system. To facilitate efficient project implementation,
the project would also support a Project Management Unit (PMU) which is legally a part of the
Ministry of Finance. The geographical location of the proposed investments are indicated in the
attached map.
D. Detailed Features
Hybrid Seed Production Component (US $46.60 million)
2.6          The project would provide fiancing to three newly established private seed
production enterprises for: (a) the equipment and civil works required to operate the seed
conditioning facilities; (b) certain auxiliary agricultural equipment and machinery for seed
multiplication; (c) working capital; and (d) technical assistance and training. Initially, these
companies would each concentrate their activities on the production of only one type of hybrid



16                                                   Ukraine Seed Development Project
foundation and commercial seed, i.e. one each for maize, sugarbeet, and sunflower. After
gaining managing and marketing experience they would be expected to expand vertically and
horizontally into the production of other types of seed as well as engage in breeding, as is
customary for traditional seed companies in Western countries.
2.7          All three enterprises would invest mainly in seed plant machinery and equipment
in order to establish seed conditioning operations which are capable of producing the quality of
seed needed to compete in world markets. Adequate buildings are available for the sugarbeet and
sunflower companies in which this new machinery and equipment can be installed with small
additional adjustments. New facilities will be constructed for the maize seed company, however.
It will also be necessary to purchase field machinery and equipment to enable the maize and
sugarbeet companies to ensure the efficient multiplication of parent seeds on contract seed
multiplication farms.
2.8          During the first two years of operation, all three enterprises will have significant
local borrowing requirements to cover initial working capital needs. Most of the working capital
in the first year of the project is needed to cover the value added tax payments to be made in
local currency on imported equipment. In the second year of the project, the main working
capital needs are for payments to contract farmers for multiplying foundation seed. Financial
projections (Annex 2) indicate that these borrowing requirements will cease in the third year of
operation, as profits accrue and become sufficient to cover working capital needs.
2.9          To ensure that the new companies are managed efficiently, the qualification of
their key management staff will have to be satisfactory to the Bank, and they will receive
training and technical assistance during the first two years of operation. Profiles of the three
prospective seed production enterprises, and terms of reference for the proposed technical
assistance and for training are presented in Annexes 2 and 5 respectively.
2.10         Maize Subcomponent (US $22.65 million). Construction of a seed conditioning
plant to handle 5,000 tons of Fl hybrid seeds annually. This includes: (a) construction
management and supervision, and acquisition of the equipment necessary for receiving, sorting,
drying, shelling, bulk storage, cleaning and sizing, treating, bagging, and storing the seed, as
well as supply of the most important spare parts (about US $9.00 million); (b) equipment to
refurbish existing facilities to handle 2,000 tons of foundation seed annually, including eight
huskers, three gravity tables, three shellers (about US $0.34 million); (c) auxiliary equipment
for field operations such as seed maize harvesters (US $0.77 million); (d) laboratory equipment,
including seed counters, germination chambers, cold test chambers, and moisture testers (about
US $0.04 million); (e) computers, printers, and software (US $0.01 million); (f) civil works for
preparing the construction site and construction of buildings for administration, laboratory, seed
sizing and storage, and all foundations (equivalent to about US $1.5 million); and (g) training
for nine person-months and technical assistance in general management, plant management,
financial management, and seed quality management (about US $0.30 million). The plant's
quarterly working capital requirements are estimated to reach a maximum of about US $8.21
million in the second quarter of the first year of operation. Over the pre-operational year of the



Chapter 2                                                                       17
enterprise, the value added tax (VAT) payments on imported equipment generate most of
working capital needs. In the first two quarters of the first operational year, payments to
farmers for multiplying foundation seed (which the plant then processes for final sale) boost
quarterly working capital requirements (in local currency) to an equivalent of about US $8.2
million. By the end of this first year, accrued profits are sufficient to cover working capital
requirements.
2.11        Sunflower Subcomponent (US $9.65 million). Acquisition and installation of
machinery and equipment into an existing building to condition 3,910 tons of hybrid and 90 tons
of foundation sunflower seed annually. This includes installation management and supervision,
and all machinery and equipment for receiving, drying, precleaning, bulk storage, sizing,
treating, bagging, and storing the seed, as well as supply of the most important spare parts
(about US $3.80 million); computers, printers, and software (about US $0.01 million); civil
works for the preparation of the land and renovation of the existing building as well as
construction of scales (about US $0.67 million); training for nine person-months and technical
assistance in general management, plant management, financial management, and seed quality
management (about US $0.30 million). The plant's quarterly working capital requirements are
estimated to peak at about US $3.93 million in the second quarter of the first year of operation.
In the first year of the project, working capital requirements are generated largely by VAT
payments on imported equipment. In year two, payments to farmers for multiplying foundation
seed to be processed and sold are the main source of working capital needs.
2.12        Sugarbeet Subcomponent (US $14.29 million). Acquisition and installation of
machinery and equipment into existing buildings to condition 1,450 tons of hybrid and 56 tons
of foundation sugarbeet seed annually. This includes installation management and supervision,
and all machinery and equipment for receiving, drying, precleaning, bulk storage, sizing,
treating (and pelletizing), bagging, and storing the seed, as well as the most important spare
parts (about US $4.12 million); auxiliary machinery and equipment to handle the field operations
of seed production, including seed drills, sprayers, steckling harvesting and planting machines
and combines, (about US $0.61 million); dryers US $0.3 million; computers, printers, and
software (US $0.01 million); civil works for refurbishing the existing facilities and the yard
(about US $0.42 million); training for nine person-months and technical assistance for general
management, plant management, financial management, and seed quality management (about US
$0.30 million). The plant's quarterly working capital requirements are estimated to peak at about
US $7.32 million in the second quarter of the first year of operation. In the first year and a half
of the project, the plant's largest working capital needs are to pay for foundation seed
multiplication before processing for final sale, and to pay VAT on equipment imported to
refurbish the plant.
Regulatory Framework Component (US $2.34 million)
2.13        The project would finance equipment, technical assistance, and training for the
regulatory agencies responsible seed quality control and for the testing and protection of plant
varieties. These elements of the seed system need upgrading to allow the development of an



18                                                 Ukraine Seed Development Project
efficient, internationally competitive, and sustainable seed industry. Terms of reference for the
technical assistance and training are given in Annex 5.
2.14        Equipment (US $2.21 million). Equipment would be provided for seed
certification laboratories managed by the State Commission for Seed Quality Control (about US
$0.24 million), and laboratory and field equipment for the variety testing system under the State
Commission for Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties (US $1.97 million). Procurement of
the laboratory and field equipment for the variety testing system would be subject to submission
of a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for modernizing the system following the review (by
September 30, 1995) of the plant variety testing system under the technical assistance program
proposed in paragraph 2.15. Assurances to this effect have been obtained during negotiations.
2.15        Technical Assistance (US $0.11 million). Specialized consultant services would
be provided for reviewing the seed legislation (US $0.02 million) and the plant variety testing
system (US $0.04 million); and for assisting in improving Distinctiveness, Uniformity and
Stability (of varieties) (DUS) testing and seed certification (US $0.03 million); for upgrading the
crop inspection system (US $0.01 million); and for operating electrophoretic equipment (US
$0.01 million). Following the review of the seed legislation, the MOAF and the UAAS would
provide the Bank with plans to amend or modify the existing legislation to implement the
recommendations of the review.  Assurances to this effect have been obtained during
negotiations: this plan would be submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament by March 31, 1996.
2.16        Training (US $0.03 million). External training would be provided for three
Ukrainian technicians in the organization and management of seed certification trials.
Germplasm Maintenance and Improvement Component (US $2.91 million)
2.17        The project would provide for critical investments and training for the germplasm
maintenance and improvements in UAAS research institutes in Kyiv, Odesa, and Zaporizhzhia.
This would help sustain a flow of quality breeder and foundation seed to the seed-producing
enterprises under the project. In addition, this component would provide technical assistance for
a review of the Ukrainian agriculture research system to identify a suitable strategy for
agricultural technology generation and a program for adjusting the structure and focus of the
current system to Ukraine's needs and to ensure its efficiency, effectiveness, and sustainability.
2.18        Sugarbeet Institute (US $0.96 million). Acquisition of precision plot machinery
including about four harvesters, four tractor-mounted, four-row seeders (US $0.62 million);
laboratory instruments, such as betalyzers, automatic polarimeters, seed quality testing
equipment (US $0.10 million); glassware, reagents, spare parts and scientific literature (US
$0.06 million); 10 computers and specialized software (US $0.04 million); and 12 months of
external training (US $0.15 million).
2.19        Plant Breeding and Genetics Institute (US $0.68 million). Precision
mechanization for field trials including about two plot harvesters with maize equipment, two



Chapter 2                                                                         19
tractor-mounted, four-row precision seeders, and two stationary precision plot threshers, plus
necessary spare parts (US $0.41 million); laboratory instrumentation, reagents, glassware, and
scientific literature (US $0.11 million); five sets of computers and specialized breeding and
experimental software (US $0.02 million); and 12 months of training (US $0.15 million).
2.20         Oilseeds Institute (US $0.65 million).  Acquisition of field experimental
machinery consisting of two precision plot combine harvesters with sunflower equipment, two
stationary precision plot threshers, and two precision seeders, all delivered with a supply of most
frequently needed spare parts (about US $0.37 million); laboratory equipment, such as small
growth chambers, oil and N autoanalyzers, pH meters, dryers, seed counters, glassware, and
reagents (US $0.02 million); scientific journals and literature (US $0.06 million); about five
computers and specialized biometric and breeder software (US $0.02 million); and 12 months
of training (US $0.15 million).
2.21         Agro-Ecology and Biotechnology Institute (US $0.40 million). Acquisition of
laboratory equipment (US $0.20 million); chemicals and reagents (US $0.10 million); and
technical assistance (US $0.10 million) for advanced methods for genetic definition of plant
varieties.
2.22         Agricultural Research Review (US $0.22 million). Provision of about 225 days
of foreign and 450 days of local consultant services, subsistence expenditure for external
consultants, and local transport.
Project Management Component (US $0.34 million)
2.23         To ensure efficient and timely implementation, the project would provide the
PMU with office equipment (US $0.01 million); a project manager, an assistant, and one
bilingual support staff member for a period of three years (US $0.03 million); operations
expenses for the PMU including external audits of project accounts and statements of
expenditures (US $0.07 million); and 16-month technical assistance to the PMU (US$0.23
million).
Seed Marketing and Trade Policy Measures
2.24         The Government of Ukraine has embarked on a broad economic reform program
which includes the liberalization of production, marketing, and trade of all seeds from state
orders, price controls, and export quotas. The effective implementation of these liberalization
measures in the seed sector and their maintenance would be monitored. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that the seed marketing and trade liberalization measures specified
for the seed sector in the Seed Policy Letter by the Minister of Economy (dated September 9,
1994) would be fully applied and maintained. These measures include elimination (for hybrid
seeds for maize, sunflower, and sugarbeet) of seed pricing restrictions, restrictions on purchase
and sale of seed, and quantitative export and import restrictions governing seed trade.



20                                                   Ukraine Seed Development Project
E. Project Costl'
2.25         The total cost of the project, is estimated at US $47.8 million, excluding taxes and
duties of US $15.5 (Table 2.1). About US $30.7 million of the total are foreign costs and US
$17.1 million are local expenditures." These estimates are based on March 1994 prices
prevailing in the international market and on local cost and price data gathered in March 1994.
Local costs were updated to December 1994 cost levels in line with domestic inflation and
changes in the exchange rate. Domestic sales prices were also revised to reflect December 1994
levels. Physical contingencies of 18% and price contingencies in accordance with Bank
guidelines'2 have been added to the base cost. Physical and price contingencies amount to
approximately 21 % of the project's base cost. Because public sector entities are exempted from
inport duties, import taxes are included in the project cost only for the imported equipment
benefitting the private seed production enterprises. Including import duties and value-added
taxes, the project cost is US $63.3 million.
F. Flnancing
2.26         The Bank loan of US $32.0 million would be equivalent to the project's foreign
exchange (US $30.65 million) and about 4% (US $1.35 million) of its local expenditures. The
Bank loan would finance 51 % of total project costs including taxes and duties: this is equivalent
to 67% of project costs net of value-added taxes and import duties. The loan would finance the
cost of: (a) investment for equipment and machinery and technical assistance and training for
the seed production companies, the regulatory framework component and the germplasm
maintenance program; (b) 50% of the civil works cost for the maize seed production plant; and
(c) the cost of the PMU including related technical assistance. The participating seed enterprises
would finance the civil works cost (except for one half of the civil works cost of the maize plant,
which would be funded by the Bank loan), VAT and import taxes on imported equipment, and
working capital requirements through initial share holders equity and domestic borrowing of the
equivalent US$31.3 million (49% of total project cost). Bank Ukraina (BOU), a local bank, has
agreed to provide the short-term funds for covering part of the companies' working capital,
estimated at about US $19.5 million.
to     Project costs are calculated in U.S. dollars only because the instability of the karbovanets makes it
impractical to quote prices in domestic currency.
"Value-added taxes and import duties equivalent to US $15.5 million are included in total local cost estimates in
Table 2.1
12    March-December 1994 (for foreign costs only): I%; 1995: 1.5 %; 1996: 1.8%; 1997: 2.6%; 1998:
2.5%; 1999: 2.5%.



Chapter 2                                                                                 21
TABLE 2.1: ESrTMATED PROJECr COSmS
(US$ millions)
% of
Base
Foreign         Local       Total         Cost
HYBRID SEED PRODUCTION:
Maize:
Equipment & machineiy             10.15          2.49        12.64
Civil works                                      1.50         1.50
Working capital                                  8.21         8.21
Technical assistance and training  0.30                       0.30
Sunflower:
Equipment & machinery             3.81           0.94        4.75
Civil works                                      0.67        0.67
Working capital                                  3.93         3.93
Technical assistance              0.30                       0.30
Sugarbeet:
Equipment & machinery             5.03           1.22        6.25
Civil works                                      0.42        0.42
Working capital                                  7.32         7.32
Technical assistance              0.30                       0.30
Subtotal                             19.89          26.70       46.60           90
Equipment & machinery             18.98          4.65       23.63
Civil works                        -             2.59        2.59
Working capital                    -            19.46        19.46
Technical assistance              0.91                       0.91
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Equipment                         2.21                       2.21
Technical assistance & taining    0.14                       0.14
Subtotal                              2.34                       2.34            4
GERMPLASM MAINTENANCE:
Equipment                         2.13           0.13        2.26
Technical assistance & training    0.62          0.03         0.65
Subtotal                              2.75           0.16        2.91            5
PROJECT MANAGEMENT:                       0.28          0.06         0.34            1
TOTAL BASE COST                          25.26         26.92        52.19          100
CONTINGENCEES:
Physical contingencies                4.55           4.85        9.40            18
Price contingencies                   0.84           0.87        1.70            3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       30.65         32.64        63.30          121
Including value-added taxes and import duties equivalent to US $15.48 million.
2.27          Grant cofinancing possibilities are being discussed with several donors, which
have indicated interest in providing for the cost of the PMU and for the technical assistance
needs and training, equivalent to approximate US $2.0 million. These cofinancing possibilities



22                                                  Ukraine Seed Development Project
need confirmation.  Agreement has been reached during negotiations that once such grant
resources become available, the Borrower and the Bank would determine whether to allocate the
corresponding loan funds to other categories or to cancel the funds.
G. Flow of Funds
2.28        Loan proceeds would be channeled through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) which
would, on behalf of the Borrower, transfer these funds to the implementing entities in the
following ways:
(a)   investment funds allocated to the three private seed production companies
would be administered by UkrExImBank, acting as a financial agent
between the Ministry of Finance and the seed production enterprises; and
(b)   investment funds allocated to the regulatory agencies of the MOAF, the
UAAS breeding institutes and the PMU would be channeled through a
Special Account (SA) to be established in a commercial bank (para.
2.39).
2.29        The   financial  agency
arrangement was chosen because of the lack          Table 2.2: Financing Plan
of an  effective  system  for financial                          Amount   % of
intermediation and because Government line        Sources         USS     Total
agencies lack experience in acting as a     IBRD                  32.00    SI
financial  agent.  This  arrangement  is    Seed Enterprises     31.30     49
justified by the pilot nature of this project
establishing seed enterprises outside the  TOTAL                  63.30    100
public sector. The Borrower has confirrned
the financial agent (UkrExImBank) and a
financial agency agreement will be signed between the MOF and UkrExlmBank.
H. Terms and Conditions for Onlending
2.30        About US$ 23.9 million, or about 75 % of the loan proceeds, would be passed on
by the borrower to the Project's financial agent which would pass on these funds as subloans to
the private seed enterprises. Since almost all of these funds would be used for payments for
imported goods and services and given the prevailing monetary instability in the country, these
subloans will be made in US dollars, and payment of interest and principal would be made in
US dollars or in local currency equivalent at the exchange rate used for converting export
earnings into local currency at the time of repayment. The MOF as the representative of the
Borrower will pass on the loan proceeds to the financial agent at an interest rate of 4 percentage
points above the standard Bank's lending rate. UkrExImBank would pass on to the seed



Chapter 2                                                                       23
enterprises at a rate not to exceed 4.30 percentage points above the Bank's base rate to cover
the financial agent's administrative cost. The credit risk would be borne by the Government.
The cost of the default risk to the Government would be defrayed by the 4% interest rate spread
earned by the Government, which in addition to the cost of the intennediation, would
approximately cover the commercial risk of the sub-borrowers. The financial agent would be
responsible for: (a) preparation of subloan agreements between the Government, the financial
agent, and the sub-borrowers specifying the terms and conditions for onlending, including
suitable collateral arrangements; (b) the maintenance of subloan accounts and subloan
supervision; and (c) recovery of the subloans on behalf of the Government. The Borrower
would pay the financial agent a fee of 0.30 percentage points of the sub-borrowers' outstanding
loan balances accruing interest and one half of one percent of the value of the principle
collected. Upon full recovery of the subloan, the Borrower would pay the financial agent a
premium equivalent to one half of one percent of the subloan amount as an incentive to collect.
Subloans are expected to carry not more than four years of grace and be recovered within not
more than eleven years. The subsidiary loan agreements between the Borrower and the seed
enterprises would stipulate inter alia that no dividends would be paid to the shareholder unless
the sub-borrowers are current in their debt service and unless the company has reached a debt
equity ratio not exceeding three to one. The distribution of dividends could not exceed 50% of
the company's net profit until the its debt equity ratio has reached one to one. Loan recoveries
would be used, in agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for improvements in the
national seed system, including lending to private seed production and processing entities other
than the three which originally benefitted from the project.
2.31        Agreements on the flow of funds (paras. 2.28) on the terms and conditions for
onlending Bank loan proceeds and restrictions on dividend payments by the seed enterprises
(para. 2.30) have been obtained during negotiations.
I. Procurement
2.32        Procurement of goods, works, and services under the project will amount to the
equivalent of US $39.7 million.'3 The equivalent of US $32.0 million will be Bank loan
financed, and US $7.7 million will be financed by equity contribution of the shareholders of the
seed production enterprise and local borrowings. Procurement of goods and civil works would
follow the Bank's guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits, and the
Borrower will use the Bank's standard bidding documents. A margin of preference (up to 15
percent as defined under the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans) in the evaluation
of bids under ICB procedures will be offered to goods manufactured in Ukraine. Employment
of consultants financed by bilateral sources on a grant basis will follow the respective donors
13    US $23.6 million working capital for the seed production plants is not included in the procurement
plan, since they are expected to be financed through shon-term local borrowing.



24                                                 Ukraine Seed Development Project
regulations, with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The proposed
procurement arrangements (Table 2.3) are described below:
(a)   The design, construction, and the supply and installation of seed processing
equipment for the three seed plants (US $28.7 million) would be procured
through ICB in three separate turnkey contracts following the latest draft of the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Supply and Installation of Plant and
Equipment and using the two stage bidding approach. The invitation for bids
would be grouped for the three seed plants, but bids and contracts could be made
individually for each of the plants.
(b)   The procurement of agricultural equipment for the three seed production
enterprises (US $3.0 million), machinery for the Regulatory Framework
Component (US $2.5 million), and the Germplasm Maintenance Program (US
$2.5 million) would be grouped to the extent possible and would follow
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures using the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documentsfor Goods.
(c)   Laboratory equipment, chemicals, and data processing equipment for the
Regulatory Framework Component and the Germplasm Maintenance Program
(US $0.8 million) would be procured under International Shopping (IS)
procedures based on a comparison of price offers from at least three suppliers
from at least three different countries, with a threshold for individual contracts
of US $300,000 and an aggregate ceiling of US $1,000,000 (to allow for
contingencies). Procurement of these items under ICB is impractical because it
will occur over an extended period, the items benefit five different entities, the
items' nature is very heterogeneous, and hence requires a multitude of suppliers.
(d)   Consultant and training services for the seed companies, the regulatory agencies.
the UAAS Institutes and the agricultural research review (US $1.9 million) are
expected to be grant financed by bilateral agencies. In such cases, the selection
would follow donor guidelines. However, the Bank would be given an
opportunity to comment on short-listed consultants, the provision of services
would follow the terms of reference provided by the Bank, and the qualification
of the consultants would be acceptable to the Bank. In the case that sufficient
bilateral cofinancing of the projects technical assistance were not to become
available, Bank loan funded consultant services would follow the Bank's
Guidelines for the use of consultants.  Consulting contracts exceeding US
$100,000 with firms and exceeding US $50,000 for individual contracts would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. The selection of the manager of the PMU
and the external auditor(s) of the project accounts and the financial statements of
the three seed enterprises would also have to be acceptable to the Bank.



Chapter 2                                                                                                              25
Table 2.3: Sutmmary of Procuremeent Arrangements
(US$ millions equivalent)
Component                              Procurement Method           NBF         TOTAL
ICB      LCB       Other
Turnkey Contracts
Construction of one and refurbishing of 2             28.7                                         28.7
seed plant buildings and equipping 3 seed plants  (21.5)                                      (21.5)
Goods
Agricultural machinery for three seed companies        3.0                                          3.0
(2.5)                                       (2.5)
Agricultural machinery & equipment for three UAAS      2.5                                          2.5
institutes                                            (2.5)                                        (2.5)
Machinery and equipment for regulatory agencies        2.5                                          2.5
(2.5)                                       (2.5)
Laboratory equipment, chemicals, and data processing                       0.8"                     0.8
equipment for regulatory agencies and the UAAS                            (0.8)                    (0.8)
Consultancies
Technical assistance and training to seed plants,                          1.7"                     1.7
regulatory agencies, and UAAS                                             (1.7)                    (1.7)
Technical assistance for Agr. Res. Review                                  0.22'                    0.2
(0.2)                    (0.2)
Technical assistance for PMU                                               0.2v                     0.2
(0.2)                   (0.2)
Miscellaneous
Operating expenses for PMU                                                 0.1"                     0.1
(0.1)                   (0.1)
Working capital                                                                      23.6e          23.6
36.7                3.0       23.6           63.3
TOTAL                                                      (29.0)              (3.0)                   (32.0)
Figures in parentheses indicate expected Bank disbursements.
I/ - International Shopping
2/- According to Bank Guidelines.
3/- Local Shopping
4/ - Local borrowings by seed companies.
(e)     Miscellaneous items (US $0.1 million) including office supplies, equipment, and
incremental operating costs of the PMU, would be procured under Local
Shopping, on the basis of three quotations with a threshold of $50,000.



26                                                Ukraine Seed Development Project
2.33        All invitations for bids, and all bid evaluation and award proposals for turnkey
procurement, ICB, and IS, which would be about 96% of the Bank financed contracts, would
be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
2.34        Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that procurement would follow
the procedures outlined in paras. 2.32 and 2.33. Selective post review of awarded contracts
below the threshold levels will be carried out. Arrangements for monitoring procurement are
included in para. 3.9.
J. Disbursements
2.35        The Bank loan would be expected to be disbursed over a period of 66 months.
The loan is expected to become effective in mid-1995. Invitations for bids for the construction
and supply of the three seed plants under turnkey contracts would be issued following Board
presentation. The contracts could be awarded by late 1995 and plant and equipment deliveries
could commence by the second quarter of 1996. Bidding and supply for the other equipment and
machinery would commence in late 1995 and be completed in mid-1997. Technical assistance
would continue to be executed through early 2000. Under these assumptions, project completion
could be expected before March 2000, as estimated in Table 2.4.
2.36        This schedule suggests a faster completion of loan disbursements than the Bank's
average sectoral or regional experience. This assumption is justified in light of the fact that about
75 % of the loan funds would be deployed for the three seed plants, the procurement of which
would be on the basis of turnkey contracts, for which bids would be invited immediately
following Board presentation. For most of the remaining items to be financed by the loan,
procurement would be expected to be completed by June 1997. The bidding documentation has
been prepared through pre-project technical assistance and is currently being evaluated by the
seed enterprises and the MOF.
2.37        The proceeds of the loan would be used to finance:
(a)   100% of the expenditures for the goods and equipment of the turnkey contracts
for the sugar beet and the sunflower seed plant;
(b)   100% of the expenditures for goods and equipment, and 50% of the related civil
works, of the turnkey contracts for the maize seed plant;
(c)   100% of the foreign cost, 100% of local ex-factory cost, or 75% of local
expenditures for other items, of the auxiliary field equipment for the maize and
sugarbeet seed companies;
(d)   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory expenditures, and 75%
of local expenditures of other items, for equipment, machinery, laboratory



Chapter 2                                                                                  27
equipment, chemical reagents, data processing equipment for the Germplasm
Maintenance Component and the Regulatory Framework Component; and
(e)    100%  of the operating expenditures of the PMU.
Table 2.4: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Semester since      Loan disbursement     Cumulative        Disbursement profile - %
approval      This semester cumulative   total  )       Sectora         Regionalb
FY 1996
Dec 95              0.5           0.5           2             0                0
Jun 96              9.5           13.0         41             6                3
FY 1997
Dec 96              8.5          21.5          67             14               6
Jun 97              6.0          27.5          86             22               14
FY 1998
Dec 97              2.0           29.5         92             34               18
Jun 98              0.5           30.0         94             50               30
FlY 1999
Dec 98               1.0          31.0         97             62              38
Jun 99              0.5           31.5         98             78               46
FY 2000
Dec 99              0.3           31.8         99             90               58
Jun 2000            0.2           32.0         100            94               66
a. Agriculture Credit-Bankwide.
b. Agriculture-ECA.
2.38          All contracts for goods and equipment are subject to the Bank's prior review,
except contracts for goods, equipment, and operating costs of the PMU in the amount not
exceeding US $50,000, which will be financed on the basis of statement-of-expenditures (SOEs).
Individual applications for direct payment would not be smaller than the equivalent of US
$50,000. Disbursements for eligible expenditures by the PMU and equipment procured would



28                                                Ukraine Seed Development Project
be made against Statements of Expenditures, which would be retained by the PMU for review
by Bank supervision missions and auditors for at least two years after disbursement.
2.39        To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special
Account (SA) in a major foreign commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank to cover the Bank's share of expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US
$300,000, representing about four months of average expenditures disbursed through the Special
Account. At the request of the Borrower, and based on the project needs, the Bank would make
an initial deposit or deposits of US $200,000 into the SA up to the amount of the authorized
allocation. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Documentation requirements for replenishment would foliow the Standard Bank procedures. In
addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the
Borrower would accompany all replenishment applications.
2.40        At negotiations, agreement have been reached that the disbursement arrangements
would follow the procedures specified in paras. 2.37, 2.38 and 2.39.



IE. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1         The main component of the project is the design, supply, and installation of three
seed processing and treatment plants for hybrid seed. This component would be implemented
by three private joint stock companies specializing in the production and marketing of hybrid
maize, sunflower, and sugarbeet seed. These companies are in the process of being established
and would procure the plants, including the related civil works through turnkey contracts under
ICB. This would greatly facilitate efficient implementation of this component. The shareholders
of these new companies are private individuals, privatized collective farms, associations of
farms, Ukrainian corporate interests, joint ventures, and public entities involved in the seed
industry. There is considerable interest on the part of foreign firms in joining these enterprises,
and commitments by two foreign firms to participate have been made prior to Board
presentation. Agreement has been reached with the Government that public entities would not
hold more than 49% of the shares in each of the seed companies. Feasibility studies, charters
and shareholder agreements have been worked out for the three new enterprises. These
enterprises have been recently legally registered. The signing of Subsidiary Loan agreements by
two of the three enterprises with the Ministry of Finance is a condition of Effectiveness. Foreign
companies are expected to become shareholders in these companies. The contributions of these
prospective foreign partners to the companies' share capital, estimated at the equivalent of about
US $500,000 each, would be applied to cover part of the companies' working capital needs.
3.2         The improvements in the regulatory framework for the seed industry supported
by the project would be the responsibility of the corresponding regulatory agencies of the
MOAF, the State Commission for Seed Quality Control (SCSQC), and the State Commission
for Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties (SCTPPV).
3.3         The germplasm maintenance program, including the proposed review of the
agricultural research system would be the responsibility of the UAAS, which would be supported
in that review by suitably qualified consultants whose terms of reference and qualifications are
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.4         A Project Management Unit (PMU) is responsible for: (a) liaising between the
implementing agencies, the Government, and the Bank; (b) ensuring compliance with World
Bank requirements for reporting on implementation progress, financial control, audits of project
and enterprise accounts, and monitoring of project impact; (c) determining eligibility of
disbursements for project and loan funds; (d) providing assistance to the implementing entities
in matters of procurement and disbursements; and (e) administering the project's technical
assistance and training component. The establishment of this unit in the Ministry of Finance
(Figure 3.1) and the nomination of a Project Manager with qualification and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank are a condition of Effectiveness.



30                                                 Ukraine Seed Development Projea
Figure 3.1: Project Organization
PROJECT STEERING                J
Minsty ofr= 
External
Auditor
Special : Proe'c't  ... nana'ement' Un i't"'v
Account :E.EA.: ':.T, ...,{" ;
Implementing Agencies
Financial Entities
Coordinating Agencies
The PSC consists of representatives trom MOF, MOAF, UAAS.
UkrExImBank, Bank Ukraina, and the three private seed enterprises



Chapter 3                                                                     31
3.5         The PMU's project manager will be supported by one assistant, one administrative
staff, and a suitably qualified technical assistant, for a total of 16 months. Qualification and
terms of reference for this technical assistant would be satisfactory to the Bank. The project
manager is responsible to the Project Steering Committee, which has been established with
representatives of the MOF, the MOAF, the UAAS, BOU, UkrExImBank, and a representative
from the Board of Directors of each of the three seed enterprises. The Steering Committee is
chaired by a Deputy Minister of Finance.
B. Schedule of Implementation
3.6         The core elements of the project are the establishment of the three private seed
production plants, including the design of the plants, the manufacturing and supply of plant
machinery and equipment, the construction or refurbishing of buildings housing the plants, and
the start-up of their operation. This part of the project, which constitutes some 90% of project
costs, will be procured on the basis of turnkey contracts using a two-stage approach. The
remaining components of the project are confmed to procurement of machinery and equipment
and technical assistance for the regulatory agencies of the seed system, UAAS institutions
responsible for germplasm maintenance, and the PMU. All bidding documents have been
prepared and invitations to bid for the seed plants and the UAAS breeding institutes will be
issued following loan approval by the Board.
3.7         Completion of the project is estimated to take about 60 months, and loan closing
could be contemplated within 66 months after Board approval of the proposed loan, or by
September 30, 2000 (Table 3. 1, Implementation Schedule). This relatively short implementation
period is justified because: (a) the project essentially consists of the procurement of goods on
a turnkey basis, shielding implementation from the borrower's limited experience in
implementing Bank-supported projects; and (b) bidding documents for most project sub-
components have already been prepared and tenders will be invited shortly after Board
presentation (see paras. 2.35 and 2.36) A Project Implementation Plan indicating responsibilities
and timing of key implementation steps is given in Annex 6.



Table 3.1: Implementation Schedule
_ = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta                                            _               =        .
SEED PRODUCTION
Seed P1mb:-----------
-ssue of Genera drocurmen Notice_-_                             _________             ______           _ ___         ___._- __ ___ ____                         ___ _
fPersn vosidmdosaDdtwurn lo bids                  __  ____                           _   _   _    .__.__    ____   _  _    __    __    __    __
-Bid evaluation and awards                                  _                                                               _   _         __    __    __    __
tghC,h,,MlCh -  e-------------------             ___ ____ ___   _                   ___   _ _ _              ___       ___ _ ___ ___ ___ ___ _
-S~y~otoupmnt an tril run
Civi_ works............o
Preparab-.of b-ddi-k-douotems_  __ _-__ __.-J-]-. ----
A - nv--aiio- to bids,-bid review  nd ards                                                      ---       --
Sup,%   nmAcines                _ - - ---------------. ----|_|_          ____ -_     -         -     --- ---------------|---  -~-         ~~    -~ ~~  ~~
T  L c_       1. C!  _,t    v    -!An   ---------~ ~~~~ -- ---|----- ---      |- -         ---- ----_--          _    _    ~~   __   _    __    _   __    __
ShnW  hs1andAC -------------------------2-------                                _            $     ,____L  __    _L__    ____    __    __    __
ContIT!           ________________________-------------- --- I                                  -       -       -     _     ~r~ _ _.                    _ _             _
Stc lit and invitation                                                                                       -----------
---------------------------__ __ --4-2----       ----- _ ---;-- L_,_L_____________
-             -Ide--if-ca-onofTranirn- Instinwte                ----   --------
Tria ~~- --------------------- -----   ~ ------ -----_ L__   ____  __ __
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Trehnicl AsItane:                                                                  
- Short list an invitatFoE
Tr*l!s    ---------------------___________   ___                 --_   __0        5    __        _                   _          L _    -    --    --  
!Tpjemcn=cvn  ----------  --   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~       -
---Select-o- of candidaes-                                                                              -            ----------
. i;     ;fiu      -s-----------------d-------tito--                                                                 --o--r---i .--t
-__ _     -------------------------------__.l            _.l_ -- - -- - -- - -__ _ _   +   +    _       _      . _---  --   F-- F      _  _     _  _    _  _     _ _
Al              boTsyLF->-t-t--i- ___-- ---- -- -- -- - --- - - ---------------_ _ _ _L_ _ L_ _ ____ _ _ __
---------------------------------------------__----------__   _ ____ _   __   _ _
13id evalua_ion and a      -wards----------------
* Prejuratos f biddinkdocs and invisa..o. bids            -  . | _                            _  ;                          1   F...  F
3 Bid evaluation and awards                          i                                    -                  ...----|- -
: 9U.P!Y - - - - - - - - - - - - ----t--------------- --------
GERMPLASM MAINTENANCE
T_ehnical As-                                --tance:--- I__   ---     -- -- -               . -. ..   - -         .-- --  --
- Short list and invi_ttion
em-o------------ ---------
H;  ----o of ---------------------| ---|-------|----                              ~       ~      ;---          -----F--F-_    _   __    __    __
Idetficaton of T- --ni    - _nsitut-- ---      --------------
T;-W------g------------------------------t---l----i-------1-   -   --,-P                                 --L       _~---, ,                 ----------
Prearamton of bidding docs and invitatuon bids -------
- Bid evaluation and awardsI I I I                                       I I              _      
--- -saruon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~~l~~ of----- d--n                                                        | ---------------r--r--r--
~~ suJ-----------------  ----1-- --  --q--                           q n              0-}-                             ~~r~
; El    -----of -----Sr --------|--i -|---------++---F-F-F----------____-_-_-_-_-_-_
M      !duealuato and awards
;NORMnoM,tq         er  -----------    --        --------                      --  ---;-;---              -W-- --F--F-    __    __    __    __
~~-Om-fl-u-m -------------   -----------~- 
Aa  iyo    IR                                                                                     - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -
*e Ea5lsncen ti                                                                                t                  -t         t 
;Conuva ------------- ---- _;---F--F--F------- ------ ~~ ~ ~ ~~
___   list aW invi1tation                _-_ii------                                                                      -----------
; CoPrqect    -|                                                -        | -----              +          . - - -         - - -_- - -                _ _-  _  _ .  - - 
- Loan Effctine                                     I- I   I-I I-----_-_-_-_-_-_-
-Project e.].view                          _4::m --------------
*Loan Cloning.j-



Chapter 3                                                                     33
C. Accounts and Audits
3.8         The seed enterprises would prepare annual enterprise accounts, and the benefitting
regulatory agencies, as well as the UAAS, would prepare annual sub-project accounts, while the
PMU would prepare project accounts for each fiscal year. These accounts would be audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank. These audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within four
months after the close of the fiscal year.
D. Reporting and Evaluation
3.9         The implementing entities would each prepare quarterly reports covering progress
in physical implementation and operating results. These reports would be consolidated by the
PMU into semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Government, Bank, and the
cofinanciers within two months of the close of the semi-annual reporting period. These semi-
annual progress reports would, in addition to summarizing implementation and operating results,
include an implementation plan for the six months following the reporting period.
3.10        A review of the project performance would be carried out by the Borrower, Bank,
and the cofinanciers 12 months after project effectiveness to determine the status of
implementation, initial operating results, and the possible need for adjustments in the design of
the project in light of its performance. In preparation for this review, the GOU would prepare
and submit to the Bank within 12 months after Board presentation a report summarizing the
status of the project, problems encountered and recommended corrective measures. If so
indicated this report would also include a proposed update for the Project Implementation
schedule.
3.11        After completion of the project, the PMU would prepare, in collaboration with
the implementing entities, an implementation completion report (ICR) of a scope satisfactory to
the Bank, which would be submitted to the Bank and the cofinanciers within six months of Loan
closing.
3.12        Assurances to meet the financial and progress reporting requirements and to carry
out the project performance review and the ICR report were obtained during negotiations.
E. Bank Supervision
3.13        Notwithstanding the fairly limited project scope, the dominant role of private
enterprises in project implementation, and the provision of technical assistance for the PMU, this
is the first investment project in Ukraine and will require close Bank supervision because of the
lack of experience in implementing Bank-supported projects by both the Borrower and the
implementing agencies. It is therefore recommended that Bank supervision include, in addition



34                                                   Ukraine Seed Development Project
to two annual supervisory visits to review the status of implementation, constant monitoring and
selective support from the Bank's Resident Mission. It is expected that the project will require
about 25 staff weeks of Bank supervision input for the first year of implementation, declining
to 20 staff weeks in subsequent years. It is recommended that:
(a)   a special project start-up mission be carried out that is staffed to adequately
address the issues of establishing the required project accounting and reporting
system, opening a Special Account, recruiting technical assistance, and
establishing operational procedures for the PMU, procurement, and the
preparation of withdrawal application for Bank loan proceeds; and
(b)   a special implementation review be carried out 12 months following loan
effectiveness to determine eventual adjustmnents needed in the design of the project
(para. 3.10).



IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benerits
Project Benefits
4.1         The project benefits would be, first and foremost, the contribution to safeguarding
the supply of improved seeds for both the domestic and export markets and the resulting
favorable impact on productivity, production, and foreign exchange earnings. As indicated in
Table 4. 1, production of hybrid foundation and commercial seed at full development is estimated
to reach about 2,100 tons and 10,400 tons under the project. Of this, approximately 60% is
expected to be utilized domestically and 40 % is expected to be exported at full development. The
incremental commercial seed produced by the project would be equivalent to 10%, 35%, and
2% of the current domestic demand for sugarbeet hybrids, sunflower hybrids, and maize
hybrids, respectively. The expected foreign exchange earnings from exports of project foundation
and commercial hybrid seeds are estimated at the equivalent of about US $17.8 million per year
at full development without considering the forced surrender of 50% of the export receipts at
the low official exchange rate. If this implicit export tax is taken into account, the annual export
earnings would decline to US $16 million.
4.2          Second, the project is expected to demonstrate the viability of financially
sustainable seed production systems. In so doing, it would pave the way for increased private
sector participation in seed production and a corresponding freeing of Government resources,
as well as increased foreign investment in the establishment of a modern seed production system.
4.3         The project is also expected to enhance the international competitiveness of
UTkrainian seeds through: (a) improved access to high-quality foreign germplasm and foundation
seed by Ukrainian breeders and seed producers; (b) improvements in seed legislation, including
plant breeders' rights; and (c) improved plant variety registration and seed testing.
4.4         The financial benefits of the three seed plants are satisfactory and sufficiently
robust to provide an adequate safeguard for their viability in case of implementation delays,
reduced output levels, and unfavorable cost and price developments (Annex 4: Financial and
Economic Analysis). For the base scenario, which includes the surrender of 50% foreign
exchange earnings and a value added tax of 20%, the after tax financial rates of return (FRR)
are 29% for the sugarbeet seed enterprise, and 25 % for both the maize seed and the sunflower
seed operations. Sensitivity calculations indicate that the sugarbeet seed enterprises would
remain viable"4 if costs increased by 15%, or if sales fell by 11 %. If sales in the first year of
operation were delayed by one year, the FRR would still reach 23 %. The corresponding values
for both the maize and sunflower enterprises are cost increases of 14%-21 %, sales reduction of
8%-12%, and FFRs of 20% for sales delayed by one year.
14/   FRR of 15%



36                                               Ukraine Seed Development Project
B. Economic Justification
4.5         The availability of high-quality seeds is an important element in the revitalization
of agriculture in Ukraine. It would potentially contribute to a substantial increase in crop
productivity and enhance the sector's role as an exporter (Table 4.1). Ukraine has good
ecological conditions, suitably qualified human resources, and experience in seed production.
The project would support the development of this potential by assisting in establishing a
sustainable, efficient, and effective seed production system, which is expected to demonstrate
to policymakers and the incipient private sector the technical, financial, and economic viability
of alternative seed production system as opposed to the current public system. The project would
also bring about improvements in the regulatory framework of the seed industry, which would
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the public controls over the seed industry, as well
as rationalize its scope.
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Seed Production and Markets
(in tons)
Production                          Sales
Domestic           Exports
1995      2000       1995      2000       1995      2000
Sugarbeet            850      1,507       350       806        500       701
Foundation          72        56         72        56         -         -
Commercial         778      1,451       278       750        500       701
Maize              2,000      4,000      2,000     3,000        -       1,000
Foundation          50        90         50        90         -
Commercial       1,950      3,910      1,950    2,910          0      1,000
Sunflower          6,554      6,950      3940      3,505     2,614      3,445
Foundation       1,554      1,950      1,040    1,105        514       845
Commercial       5,000      5,000     2,900     2,400      2,100     2,600
TOTAL              9,404     12,451      6,290     7,305     3,114      5,146
Foundation       1,676      2,096      1,162     1,251       514       845
Commercial       7,728     10,355     5,128     6,054      2,600      4,301
4.6   The economic analysis of the project compares all project investments with the
measurable benefits generated by the hybrid seeds produced in the project seed enterprises. No
attempts have been made to quantify the benefits resulting from the project's investments in the



Chapter 4                                                                         37
regulatory framework of the seed system or in germplasm maintenance, which together constitute
about 13% of all project investments. Accordingly, no benefits from these investments are
considered in the analysis. The benefits are measured in terms of reduced seeding rates and
increased yields resulting from the utilization of the hybrid seed produced under the project.
Based on this concept, and applying the assumptions spelled out in Annex 4: Financial and
Economic Analysis, the project yields an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 19%. Testing
the economic returns against the key variables which determine the benefits, (i.e., reduction in
seeding rates and increases in yields), suggests that the project would remain viable with a 10%
lower seeding rate reduction or 10% lower yields than assumed in the base case. Considering
that this analysis does not count the benefits from investments in the regulatory framework,
germplasm maintenance, the foundation seed production by the three seed plants, or the impetus
the project's demonstration effect will provide to the private seed sector, the ERR and its
robustness are considered satisfactory.
C. Risks
4.7          The technical aspect of producing seeds is not a major risk. The technology
involved is straightforward and well known in Ukraine, and there are sufficient qualified
technicians available. The modern seed production and processing equipment to be procured
under the project, along with the private business involvement of the seed enterprises, will
provide for the technical efficiency and for the attention to details required for high-quality seed
production. The country is less well equipped to effectively handle the managerial, financial,
and marketing functions of commercially-oriented seed enterprises, but these problems are
expected to be reduced by the private nature of the enterprises, the eventual participation of
foreign firms, and by the provision of technical assistance and training.  $uccess in
demonstrating the viability and replicability of the system of private seed producers depends to
a considerable degree on reaching a reasonable degree of macroeconomic stability and on the
Government's continued support for the liberalization of pricing, marketing, and trade of
agricultural inputs in general and seed in particular. While such a supportive macro and sector
policy framework will only develop over time, the financial attractiveness of hybrid seed
production will demonstrate the feasibility and viability of private seed production in the medium
term, even in an imperfect macro and sector policy enviromnent. The favorable and robust
economics of seed production as indicated by the ERR would further justify taking this implicit
risk.
4.8          Other risks for the project are the timely availability of key production inputs, and
the uncertainties about the level of the domestic demand for improved seeds. The latter would
greatly depend on the profitability of crop production, which is dependent on successfully
resolving pricing and trade problems in agriculture. Under a scenario of relative depressed
output prices, the domestic demand for improved seeds may decline in the short run. However,
the risk of reduced demand would appear manageable considering that: (a) the project would
concentrate on the production of hybrids, which farms need to replace annually; and (b) the sale
of produced seeds might be re-oriented to the export market, if local demand falls temporarily.



38                                                  Ukraine Seed Development Project
4.9         A final risk factor affecting project implementation is the borrower's unfamiliarity
with procedures and regulations associated with the implementation of Bank-supported projects.
This risk has been taken into account by projecting an implementation period longer than
technically necessary for turnkey projects of this size and by providing for a PMU and the
needed technical assistance to support its functions.
D. Environmental Aspects
4.10        The proposed project would not create any substantive environmental hazards. The
potential occupational hazards in the operation of the seed plants through the generation of dust
and through the handling of hazardous chemicals would be mitigated by including appropriate
dust removal systems and storage facilities for chemicals in the design of the seed plants.
4.11         The project has been classified as a category B project. No separate environmental
analysis is deemed necessary, but the design criteria and operational procedures for the plant
covering the potential occupational hazards have been included in the specifications for the plants
in the bidding documentation. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that evaluation
of bids and awards for the supply and creation of the seed plants will take these criteria into
account. Moreover, the plants under the project are subject to existing regulations which permit
environmental supervision by the Ministry for Environmental Protection.



V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.1         During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Government that:
(a)   a staffing plan for the management of each participating seed company would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.9);
(b)   disbursements of loan proceeds for investments in the Plant Variety Testing and
Protection System would be subject to receipt by the Bank of a plan, acceptable
to the Bank, for the reorganization of the System of Testing and Protection of
Plant Varieties (para. 2.14);
(c)   the MOAF and the UAAS would, following the review of the current seed
legislation present to Parliament (by March 31, 1996) a proposal for amending
or modifying the existing legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, to implement the
recommendations of the review (para. 2.15);
(d)   the GOU would, in the context of its economic reform program, implement and
maintain the contemplated liberalization of production, marketing and trade to the
seed sector as specified in the Seed Policy Letter of the Minister of the Economy,
dated September 9, 1994 (para. 2.24);
(e)   the GOU and the Bank would determine whether loan funds provided for
technical assistance, training and the operation of the PMU would be reallocated
to other categories or cancelled in case bilateral grant funds become available for
these purposes (para. 2.27);
(f)   terms and conditions for channeling Loan funds, including the restriction on
dividend payments, would follow the arrangements outlined in para. 2.30;
(g)   procurement would follow the arrangements outlined in paras. 2.32 and 2.33;
(h)   disbursements and the establishment of a special account would follow the
arrangements outlined in paras. 2.37, 2.38 and 2.39;
(i)   loan effectiveness would be subject to the Borrower's providing the Bank with (i)
a Financial Agency Agreement signed between the Borrower and UkrExImBank;
(ii) Subsidiary Loan Agreements signed between the MOF and at least two of the
three participating seed enterprises; and (iii) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
the PMU and the PSC are established and staffed (paras. 2.29, 3.1 and 3.4);



40                                                   Ukraine Seed Development Project
(j)   the terms of reference for the review of the agricultural research system and the
qualification of the consultants to assist the UAAS in this task would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.3);
(k)   the financial and implementation progress reporting, including the Project
Performance Review 12 months after project effectiveness, and the preparation
of an ICR would follow the arrangements and schedules outlined in paras. 3.8
to 3.12; and
(1)   the design criteria for the seed plants would provide for appropriate dust removal
systems and storage facilities for chemicals (para. 4.11).
B. Recommendation
5.2          With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US $32.0 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable rate for 17 years
including five years of grace.



ANNEX 1
SEED MARKET PROSPECTS
A. Sunflower
1.1         Sunflower is grown annually in Ukraine on about 1.6 million ha at average
planting rates of about 5 kg of seed per ha. This requires about 8,000 t of seeds. Hybrid seeds
were introduced only a few years ago because of the strong emphasis and promotion which the
Pustovoit Institute in Krasnodar (Russia) put behind its efforts at marketing seeds of open-
pollinated varieties. Ukrainian authorities suggest that at its peak in 1990, hybrid sunflower seed
may have occupied as much as 40% of the Ukrainian area planted to sunflower; this would have
required about 3,200 t hybrid seeds. However, in the poor economic conditions of the last two
years, the farms switched back to using seeds of open-pollinated varieties because they could
save their own crop for seeds and because the loss in heterosis (loss in yield) from use of
replanted seeds was not as great as with corn. Consequently, hybrid seed usage is presently
limited to probably no more than 30% of the total or about 2,400 t.
1.2         Seed production is spread throughout the country. There are two larger facilities,
one at Odesa and one at Zaporizhzhia, each with a capacity for cleaning about 1,500 t of seeds
per year; both facilities are old and obsolete. A significant portion of this 3,000 t capacity is
used for the hybrid seed, which the country requires annually. This leaves a balance of about
5,000 t of seeds, which are being produced throughout the country in the various regions where
the commercial sunflowers are grown. These seeds are cleaned on small machines, each of
which handles between 30 and 50 t per year. These small cleaning machines are probably
adequate as long as they are used to clean farm-saved seed of the open-pollinated varieties.
1.3         Considering that there are an average of 15,000 seeds in a kg of sunflower seeds,
a planting rate of 5 kg/ha puts about 75,000 seeds per ha into the ground. Ukraine has relatively
little and irregular rainfall with only 350 to 450 mm of rain per year. This makes it desirable
to have no more than 35,000 plants per ha in the field at harvest time to optimize the
development of the head of the plant and consequently optimize the yield. If high-quality seeds
are used, one should not expect to lose more than 30-35% of the plants, even though the soil
conditions at planting time are relatively cool and wet. Thus, a planting rate of about 50,000
to 55,000 seeds would be sufficient to end up with about 35,000 plants at harvest time.
Consequently, the requirements for good sunflower seeds in the long term are estimated to be
about 3.5 kg/ha or about 6,000 t of sunflower seed to plant the 1.6 million ha of sunflower in
Ukraine.
1.4         Under the above assumptions, and provided the economic situation of the farming
sector improves, it would be reasonable to assume that 40-50% of the total of 6,000 t of
Ukrainian sunflower seed requirements would be hybrid. A larger percentage of hybrid seeds
should only be assumed if a thorough analysis of the sunflower production regions in Ukraine
were to reveal that all production of sunflower is on land that is well suited to produce this crop.



42                                                  Ukraine Seed Development Project
Production on marginal land and under marginal environmental conditions will continue to favor
the use of open-pollinated varieties.
1.5         In addition to the domestic sunflower seed market, there is also a potential export
market for Ukrainian-produced sunflower seeds, mostly to Russia. However, because of the
limited production capacity in the country, Ukraine sold only about 600 t to this market in the
past.
B. Sugarbeet
1.6         Sugarbeet is grown in Ukraine on about 1.6 million ha. At average planting rates
of about 3.5 units per hectare (1 unit equals 100,000 seeds), about 5.6 million units are used to
sow all sugarbeet areas in Ukraine.
1.7         About 20% of the sugarbeet area is currently sown with hybrid seed. Introduction
of new, improved hybrid seed has been rather slow because of the involvement of the sugar
industry in seed production. Because the production of seed from open-pollinated varieties is
much cheaper than the production of hybrid seed and because UKRSACHAR, the State
Sugarbeet Conglomerate, owns the three seed plants in Ukraine, for years the use of open-
pollinated varieties was promoted. All three seed plants are old and outdated and need
remodelling or replacement in order to produce better seed. Also, it is believed that in a more
competitive market environment, the area planted to hybrids could over a period of 3 to 5 years
increase to about 50% of the total area planted to sugarbeets. The success of several Western
European companies selling their high-priced, high-quality seed in Ukraine substantiates this
thinking.
1.8         Planting rates are different for hybrid seed and seed of open-pollinated varieties.
Because of the poor quality of locally-produced seed from open-pollinated varieties, farms use
about 4 units per ha of this seed; but they use only about 2 units per ha of hybrid seed. In both
cases, however, losses are high when Ukrainian-produced seed is used; most of this seed does
not emerge, and final stands are around 150,000 plants per ha for hybrid seed and around
220,000 plants per ha for open-pollinated varieties. It has been documented recently, however,
that with seed of world standard quality, planting rates can be reduced to about 150,000 to
175,000 seeds per ha for final stands of about 135,000 plants per ha. Based on this experience
and based on the expectation that hybrid seed will quickly occupy a larger area, it is estimated
that long-term seed needs will amount to about 2.5 million units of which 50% will be hybrid
(1,700 t).
1.9         Ukraine has traditionally been an exporter of sugarbeet seed to Russia and other
former CMEA (Council for Mutual Economic Assistance) countries. Russia alone has an annual
seed requirement equal to that of Ukraine. Most of these exports were foundation seed sales of
varieties which had been bred by the Institute for Sugarbeet in Kiev, which is why the
foundation seed plant of Trostianets is close to the border with Russia. However, Ukraine has



Annex 1                                                                        43
recently demonstrated that they can also sell their seeds of the new improved hybrids at premium
prices if seed qualities are good. It should, therefore, be possible for Ukraine to sell high-
quality commercial seed into these markets in direct competition with Western European
companies and at prices that are significantly higher than what can presently be charged for seed
in Ukraine.
C. Maize
1.10        Ukraine produces maize on about 7 million ha; about 4.5 million ha are grown
for the production of silage and about 2.5 million ha for the production of grain. At average
planting rates of 25 kg/ha for grain and 30 kg/ha for silage, this requires a total of about
197,500 t of seed annually. Additionally, in the past the country exported up to 100,000 t to
countries of the FSU; total seed production in Ukraine was therefore up to 300,000 t, which
required about 8,000 t of foundation seed.
1.11        Production of foundation seed was organized by the various research institutes on
their experimental farms. Since average volumes were relatively small, few facilities were
required. The philosophy in the FSU towards the production of corn seed, however, was that
all seed production was based on sterile cytoplasm, and neither in the production of the
foundation seed nor later, in the production of the commercial seed, were any provisions made
for detasseling when the sterility broke. This resulted in seeds of generally poor genetic quality.
Only recently were attempts made to prove that production of seed based on fertile germplasm
can be successfully managed in Ukraine; it was also proved that farmers are prepared to pay
premium prices for superior seed.
1.12        Production of the commercial seed was organized by the MOAF on state and
collective farms. This seed was then taken to be cleaned by the seed plants. There are 105 of
these plants in Ukraine belonging to the Bread Products Department (BPD) of the MOAF
(former State Committee for Bread Products) with capacities ranging from 1,000 t to 10,000 t
annually; they were constructed in the 1950's, and no remodelling or upgrading has taken place
since. Consequently, these plants are outdated and cause a substantial damage to the seed.
Because of the deteriorating conditions of these plants and because of unfavorable weather
conditions, the production volume of corn seed has declined drastically over recent years, and
Ukraine had to import seed in 1993 and again in 1994.
1.13        The previous Government took steps to remedy these production shortfalls by
arranging for the construction of seven new seed plants with a combined annual capacity of
70,000 t. However, financing problems have prevented the implementation of this program.
1.14        The long-term outlook suggests that the corn seed market for Ukrainian-produced
seed will be smaller than in the past and that a significantly improved genetic and mechanical
quality will be required to successfully compete in the open market.



44                                                 Ukraine Seed Development Project
1.15        If the area planted in corn in Ukraine does not change and if improved seed were
used in the future, total estimated seed requirements would be reduced to about 170,000 t (at
a planting rate of 25 kg/ha). However, if one anticipates a reduction of the land area planted
to corn due to elimination of silage production on land which is not well suited to corn (while
on the other hand anticipating an increase in the production of corn grain), a reduction of the
seed requirements down to 130,000 t could be anticipated.
1.16        Also, the export markets will most likely shrink in volume due to the expected
reduction of corn area in Russia. It is therefore suggested that the total market for corn seed
produced in Ukraine should be projected in the long term to be about 200,000 t annually.



ANNEX 2A
PROFLES ON SEED ENTERPRISES
A. Maize Seed Production Company
2.1         This company will be formed as a private company with limited liability under
the laws of Ukraine, and it will be located in Odesa. The company's highest authority will be
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. They will approve the annual report, changes to the
statutes and to the capital structure of the company and will elect the Board of Directors, the
Chairman, and the auditors. The Board of Directors will meet quarterly and supervise the
activities of management. All operating plans, investment plans, budgets, and real estate
transactions, as well as the appointment and dismissal of the General Director, have to be
approved by the Board.
Company Activities
2.2         The company plans to produce annually 2,000 tons of foundation seed and 5,000
tons of hybrid seed of maize and sell them in domestic and export markets. To this end, the
company will enter into licensing agreements with breeders for the right to produce and market
the hybrid seeds developed by these breeders.
2.3         The company will enter into production contracts for 2,000 tons of foundation
seed with the experimental farms associated with the Institute for Plant Breeding and Genetics
in Odesa. These farms will produce the seed in the field and will provide labor for the
conditioning the seed. Each of these farms presently owns a seed conditioning facility; the farms
will contribute these facilities as equity in the share capital of the company (with appropriate
authorization by the UAAS) and thus become shareholders. These facilities are intended to be
refurbished using funds from the Bank loan to enable the company to offer the highest possible
quality of foundation seed to its customers and licensees.
2.4         The company will build a new conditioning facility for 5,000 tons of Fl hybrid
seed in the southern part of Odesa Region. The land designated as construction site is currently
owned by a farm and would be contributed by this farm as equity in the share capital of the
company with appropriate authorization by the UAAS.
2.5         All seed produced by the company will be based on normal cytoplasm, which
means the maize will require detasseling. This is a significant change from past practice, since
presently more than 95% of the maize seeds produced in Ukraine are produced with sterile
cytoplasm and without any provisions for detasseling. Production with normal cytoplasm was
introduced by the Institute in Odesa a few years ago, and they proved that it can be managed
under the conditions of Ukraine. They also demonstrated that this method produces seeds of



46                                                          Ukraine Seed Development Project
much higher level of genetic purity than seeds produced with sterile cytoplasm and that these
seeds can be sold for premium prices.
2.6           The company will market its seed through distributors and dealers, as well as
through licensees. Approximately 50% of the company's hybrid seeds will be sold in Ukraine,
representing a market share of about 1.5%. The company will sell about 60% of its foundation
seeds in Ukraine to other organizations with the capability to produce hybrid seeds.'5 The
hybrid seeds produced from this foundation seed will represent a market share of about 25 % in
Ukraine.
Financial Projections
2.7           The financial projections of the company's operations, attached to this Annex,
indicate that it will be profitable in the first year of seed sales. Net profit after tax in years 5-10
is estimated at about US $4 million per year. However, prior to its first selling season, the
company will have to finance the initial investment in plant equipment, civil works, and auxiliary
agricultural equipment and in seed production, which will require significant borrowings in local
currency. These borrowings are projected to peak at an equivalent of about US $8 million in
the second quarter of the project's first year of operation and cease by the end of this first year
of operation (see attached projected cash flow).
2.8           The debt-to-equity ratio for the maize enterprise starts at a level of just under 5:1
in the first year of operation and declines to less than 3.5:1 by Year 2. The initially high ratio
reflects the large investment needed to build and equip an entirely new plant (US $10 million)
and the initial capitalization of slightly over US $1.5 million. This level of capitalization is
equivalent to the initial contributions of the domestic partners of about US $1.5 million. At least
half of these contributions would be paid in cash. After the expected restructuring with the
foreign partner by the end of the first year of operation, the total level of capitalization would
be brought up to at least US $1.75 million. Since the maize enterprise's annual net profits
exceed US $2.0 million in the first three years, the debt-to-equity ratio declines to 2.2:1 by the
end of Year 3.
15     The enterprise to be established under the project will not have sufficient productive capacity to
reproduce F1 hybrid seeds from all the foundation seeds it produces. Such capacity would require substantial
further investment, which may possibly be financed at a later date from private sources and/or reinvested
profits. The enterprise will therefore sell its excess foundation seeds to such producers of hybrid seeds that are
prepared to comply with the company's standards of quality and that will effectively become licensees of the
company. Thus the company will be able to establish a brand identity for hybrid seeds produced from its
foundation seeds.



Annex 2A                                                                      47
Current Status and Schedule for Registration
2.9         The final corporate structure is still being negotiated. It is understood that the
company will be private and that shares held by public institutions will not exceed 49%. The
following shareholders are envisaged:
(a)   The Institute for Plant Breeding and Genetics, together with four of its associated
experimental farms. Together they hold less than 25% of the stock.
(b)   Eleven farms, Fl hybrid seed producers. They will be kolkhozes converted into
cooperatives or joint stock companies.
(c)   UkrAgroBusiness (UAB) and RAIS private joint-stock companies under the laws
of Ukraine.
(d)   A company of private individuals.
(e)   Foreign company(ies) have not yet been identified.
2.10        To accelerate the formation of the company, the Ukrainian partners may form a
nucleus" company first but will have a stipulation in the shareholder agreement which allows
for the restructuring with foreign participation within one year from the date of registration.
Under this scenario, the nucleus company was registered in March 1995.



48
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     -             - - - -l||"|l - -
I~~~~~I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
e I,  hI      i   Io
U~~          -  C 
ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
c Sp  -Y  i ! E q                                          -



Financial Analysis of Maize Enterprise
QUANTmES                                                            UNrr COST                                                                        BASE COST
UNIT                           YEAR I    YEAR2   YEAR3  YEAS 4 YEAR 5  YEAR 6-1   YEAR I   YEAR 2   YEAR3   YEAI4                         YEAR S       YEAR615          YEAR I           YEARSZ          YEAR s         YEAR 4        YEAR S        YEAR 6-l
ROYALTIES                4
LaCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                    6346          64446            70164         746            77115         77I15
FOR41N COST
TAXES
34ARLETING               its
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                   63441           66"             70164         746            77115         77115
FORMGN COST
TAXES
TOTAL IMPORT TAXES M.L KR                                                                                                                                                      107.412              0               0             8             0              0
TOTAL RECURRENT COSMS
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                  977.317       I.M0019         I0..659       1053.172      1.075.181      1.075.181
FOREI   COST                                                                                                                                                              $131.           $132.M9        S135.0o       5;37,21         139.050       $19.400
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                       13.0223        M2G.652         125.58         121328        130.678        15.67
TOTAL INVEST)ENT COSTS
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                  19.50D               0               0                           0              0
FO2320  COST                                                                                                                                                             10. 53.50D              0               0             0             0              0
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                       247.464              0               0             0             0              0
SALES
LOCAL - Fl HYRIDS                   2900          s      2630    2525      24M0         293       134.10     124.10    124.10    124.)0         124.10       124.0D            361.9W         3W4330          330.72        313.13,        299,93         299.93
LOCAL. OUNIDATON                     1040      1056      l073    1091      1103         1103     5*9.40     SO9.D1   539.41    259.W0           559.00      558.10            341.340         5e4             101.925       409.89         617.695       617.05
FORE N- JYDRDS                       23W0      zm        2350    2475      2W0          2600      59U         1915      S91s      S91s           $915         $915          1.9213MW        2.L035.75      9.150.20    91.2644.6       2X379.000      SL239.M
FOREIGN - FoIuNDATION                514        50        675     770       84s          k4     S7.W        $7.98     87.&M     57.9S          57,35        n.93           S4,013.312      54.60.7230      55.270.400    5.012iG0      S6.59.740      s6.39.780
VAT ASSESSED                                                                                                                                                                   157,213         156.104        155,274       154.1         1m2m869        151.9
LOCAL SALES                                                                                                                                                                 157,213         156104        155.274       134.165        .L89           l5a.w9
EXPORT SALES
VAT CREDIT                                                                                                                                                                     367.697        122.652         125,39        128328         lXA6          1u0.67e
VAT OWQED               as
LOCAL SAIES                                                                                                                                                                      0          33,452          29.376        25.m36        Z2,191          22,191
FORWN SALES
REVENUE LESS COSTS                                                                                                                                                            .01.909         749,411         82.243        104. 124      9.751          9f751
(E _^md lm s)                                                                                                                                                             ^93c"Um            .764.,s7      5L3fSI         WS4.04       3n.41.174, 797.45.935
WORXD4G CAPITAL NEEDS
LOC   CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                            1,150A91           -9.67
FP0e3N CURRENCY
VALUE OF STOCK OF RE4VTMENT
LOCALCURRENCY                                                                                                                                                               195.9D          175.XW         137.910       141 5ss          7.9D         115.146
FNOR      CURRECY                                                                                                                                                       10.153.3.       39.13810SD     5$.724.335      7.40l.91     561.711        85.995.50
DEaAnaNTI              1t
I OCALaCT                                                                                                                                                                  $19.5W          817.550        513.75s       $14.2116       $12.57         si1L3
FOREIGN COST                                                                                                                                                            51.01.5535       5913.1S5        sm434          9740.110      S6f3 171      1193.554
TOTAL NET MARIN                                                                                                                                                            s3.549.72       S4,715,4       $5.32871      S 16105,264   S16.47.548     56.763.D7
TOTAL EC090&IC COSTS                                                                                                                                                      S1i.7S4,5D         $132.93        51.3sAo        $1537.93      515.000        $139.9
ER REPOSE TA            555                                                                                                               (011.3,.5M           S0          54,715.122      85.764.097      832.6s1    S6.954.104       07.4531955     87.451,955
MR AFTE  TAX            285                                                                                                               (s11.6535.      so               54.042.s5   s 4.92.979   u 3.233.537           5.4Z7,150 ss.674.184  u .s75.ess
PRICE TO FARMER
F HYTIDS                                                                                          87.41      87.41      87.41     37.41          V7.         37.41
FouOATnoN                                                                                        148.0     141L60     148.60    14.60          14S.0       14&.1
SEED POVIDED TO FARMERS
Fl HYBRIDS                                                                                         3.28       3.28       3.28      3.28           3.28        3.3
FOUNDATION                                                                                          .46       5.46       5.46        46           5.46        5 4



"8X         ^05{              05l              WCt'L            U11              05It              65101            lUbEll           iUw1             UlW1             05AUU3O
am lwt            t91t            11               as               9@t'ZSS          "Vit             es          t     oov              flml'            I6>'tt              a1       t                           A3Nf = _DW     I
U111i            0(1              GIO'Ll           Lir'i             Wit              WIN            6EllS              OWL              mb               0                0                0AMlWIIVDIO1r
St        xsniJm.f1
111g81   -8   11   1   1         11               gl               gl                                                                                            )        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~341111)OM&
mm               mm                                                 tlS&             twil                                                                                                            31111 M
0911                                                                tttl WU                                                                                           1~uuwm1
:1905            lUbH                               rl lUll                                           mu               art                                                                                           A31a4111     oI
tt'"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~na vmrmn Eii                                                :
iw,u  0 1                                                                             DIC Al    UV11WcOi
0   ds   zO   -  aD   *                1D               tD               IC                *               sb                wb~~~~~~~~~~~swu         * sinmu    m
t6111  1911_
1051N W  05PW         t 
"611  U61n                            1010             U"                                                 OW'tt~~~~~ISV  5015  11Uz                                                    1314111111t unWIO
MI     0    l              INVC             IIIIIS           13e  30                             rtmmltl                                           a"            1         0                 0               UA1!lV *`aaV=
DivIl     MI=            s                 isVIA                               C'          IVas                                                          UVplmANW  s                 atA301181M)ONd
.sudrnul SZ~~~~~~~~3I #0 .~~~~~sApuy p!rnEsIuMfdMVVA 



Financial Analysis of Maize Enterprise
U,
PRE-OPERAfON YEAR                                                                     YEAR I                                                                        YEA  2
CASHFLOW ANALYSIS           Ql                  Q2                 Q3                  Q4                  Ql                 Q2                  Q3                 Q4                  Ql                  Q2                 Q3                  Q4
I) CHA0TE0 CAPrlAL
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                          SM0.0 010
LOCAL CURRENCY                                              14Q3. 9
X SCi SALES
FOREGIG  CURRENCY                                                                                                                        S393.461          L3,3601667         31.790.44                                1f4.260           $3.3.?7             S1.91.779
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                MS.9u              3.312                                                      561.174             374.630
3) NfEREST INCOmE
FREIGN CLRLRENCY
LACAL CURENCY
4) Vi LOAN
F7RE1G  CURRENCY                                        $1,015,33          83.06(.0            33,047*            S33066.30
LOCAL C        URRENCY
53 VAT tAX CREIT
EIN CIREKNCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                                   367.L67                                                                        I22,fS2
71TAL
OIEI    CURRENCY                             o          tl.2f.330           O3.0K0               3.2960            53.066.)4,            $39341            S3.5b0J.V          Sl,70.444                  90            1664.260          $3,913,27           tl,99X779
LOCALCURRE35CY                               0              IQ2o                     a                  0                   0                   0 135.966                        744.999                   a                  0              561,974            497,302
NET LALANCE
FOREIGN CURRENCY                            SD            522,D0              (1.474)            $I93.G                   SD            M593.461          $3.3,621            $1,733.177 ID                            5466.t0           53.927.3M           S1.934.616
LOCALCUMRENCY                                0               26,291            -126.746            -79.610            .564365            -31L072              403.66             f5,.791            -510,051            -310,7M             40,530              412.321
OUITTANDM   DE0T/CASH
OREIO       CURRENCY                        SD            50.030              $193,53             37.033             S37,053            9960.4            t4,464.1SM          U6.307.332          56.M27,332         s61r.592           U10.79V966          S12733.692
LOCAL CURRENCY                               0               21,291            -141.433           -MI.S               36630             -1.11.1,02           -713,036             -57.W             -567.303             5091               *472X761             -40.240
UIIN D BALANCE                              9S            0467.2           ($1.040.746)        (1,461,141)        (SS.817,79)         (37.624.667)       (sI.30.737)          $.766995            $1.843.463            117.046          $7,163.903         S12.770.216



Financial Analysis of Maize Enterprise
ASSET AND LAaI _IALANCE - END OF YEAR                    YLAR I                      YEA" 2                      YEAR 3                     YEAR 4                      YEAL 5                     YEAt 6-15
ASSETS                                                         $12.3i 640                  $13.27*1                    514. Ia                     515,71097                   617.54                      1.3771 073
RXED CAPITAL                                                  10.4.S13D                   59.439.335                 145.402                     S75Js1                      s1k5273                     5s1k3.146
CAH                                                           SI10M450                    $3.76.146                   5 .766                     S1&1FM                     S1.12Mm                     t.377M.C5
LlAUIrT                                                        S12t3W40                    613.17.301                  514 .12621                 $15 .M097                   $17.00 354                  5t.71.073
NET EQUIY                                                     S1.55.140                   $3,04m4*1                  $4674,64                    57.637                     510.977.454                 $14.673
LONG-TIEM DT                                                 510.1I3,3C                  510.15.333                  810.153390                  SI,1m2.m                    SkK03                       54.061.4W
5H0RT-TER  DEBT                                                     So                          So                          t0                          S3                          so                          30
DERT-EQIJlTM LATIO                                                    4.71                        3.32                       117                         1.06                        0ss                         0.3
LOAN REPAYMENT ECIEDULU
4nALSrOCK OF DEBT                                                   so                   510.1533m                   s10.13,m                   S10133.3                     S1L5W                       SkmaI0
D4SEUESEMENT FUNDS                                           $1U.3m                             SD0                         ID                          SD                          33                          ID
PRINaPAL PAYU34                                                     S3                          So                          SD                   S2     M7                   U3700                       9.0,7
FDNALSrOCK OF DMT                                             10.133,37                  $10.153.M3                 S10,13,3.3                   U.12El KO                   S6.0 0K                     54.061.40
D4TEREST PAYMUSm                                              S1.26t.1l                         t $1.269.11          $1,29,1                     S1.015,353                   $761,513                    57.673
TOTAL PAYMENTS                        2MS                    5lW,Im                       l .26L 13                  t1,26.13#                   S3906                       5V7I2U                      V33SA37
NET MARG[N                                                      S3,549.772                 S4715.0#2                    53,31.718                  S0105.266                   S6.67.345                   8763.57
IMANCEHARM                                                      81.30216                   S51933.41S                 SU7X5003                     S1,013,350                    5751,513                  S57.675
UCOUETAX                                 39%                      a3.067                     54.711                    801.09.115                  51.36574                    Sl77.3                      515
NET  uOgI51.r2L 490                                                                        P1,947,a6                   S3.364,601                  5342.40                     S4.14B.155                  S4.37.
EEA?W  POMITr                                                    5,43                      51.907.63                   57,64.401                   J1.751.470                  S2.074,03                    WIV.444
POrr D5TDUIIflON T                       in                           0%                          0S                          0%                         50%                        35S                          5S3
Ct4
U)



ANNEX 2B
PROFILES ON SEED ENTERPRISES
B. Sunflower Seed Production Company
2.1         The company will be formed as a private company with limited liability under the
laws of Ukraine, and it will be located in Zaporizhzhia. The company's highest authority will
be the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. They will approve the annual report, any changes to
the statutes and to the capital structure of the company, and will elect the Board of Directors,
the Chairman, and the auditors. The Board of Directors will meet quarterly and supervise the
activities of management. All operating plans, investment plans, budgets, and real estate
transactions, as well as the appointment and dismissal of the General Director, have to be
approved by the Board.
Company Activities
2.2         The company plans to produce annually 90 tons of foundation seed and 3,910 tons
of hybrid sunflower seed and to sell it in Ukraine and export markets. To this end, the company
will enter into licensing agreements with breeders for the right to produce and market seeds of
hybrids developed by these breeders. Additionally, the company will custom clean seeds of
other crops (such as wheat and barley) to utilize its conditioning facilities better.
2.3         The company will build a seed conditioning facility in an existing building close
to Zaporizhzhia. This building is situated on about 2 ha of land. It was constructed in 1991 and
is a solid steel structure. Ownership of the property is presently being transferred to the Institute
for Oilbearing Crops in Zaporizhzhia, and the company will enter into a long-term lease for the
property with an option to buy. The property is located in an industrial area, and has good
excess to a major highway and to rail.
2.4         The company will enter into production contracts for 90 tons of foundation seed
with the experimental farms of the Institute in Zaporizhzhia. These farms will manage the
production in the field and deliver the seed to the company for conditioning. The company will
also contract for the field production of the hybrid sunflower seed with farms in the
Zaporizhzhia area and further south where farms have the capability for irrigation. All
sunflower seed will be conditioned at the company's facility.
2.5         Hybrid sunflower seed is produced using a system of male sterility which ensures
the desired cross-pollination. However, sunflower seeds are fragile and can easily be damaged
during handling; hence, a modern seed conditioning facility is of utmost importance to ensure
minimal damage to the seed in the cleaning and bagging process. The ability to avoid
mechanical damage will enable the company to sell seeds of better quality (higher germination
and vigor) and thus develop a preference in the marketplace for its seed.



54                                                   Ukraine Seed Development Project
2.6          The company will sell its seed through distributors and dealers, as well as through
licensees. Approximately 75% of the company's hybrid seeds will be sold in Ukraine,
representing a market share of about 35%. About half the foundation seed produced by the
company will be sold to other hybrid seed producers. The market share of the hybrid seeds
produced from this foundation seed could amount to about 18 percent market share in Ukraine.
Financial Projections
2.7          The financial projections for the sunflower seed enterprise, attached to this Annex,
indicate that the company will be profitable in the first year of seed sales. Net profit after tax
in years 5-10 is estimated at about US $2.0 million per year. However, prior to its first selling
season, the company will have to finance the initial investment in plant which will require
significant borrowings in local currency. These borrowings are projected to peak at an
equivalent of about US $3.9 million in the second quarter of the project's first year of operation
and to cease in the third quarter of Year 2 (see attached projected cash flow).
2.8          The debt-to-equity ratio for the sunflower enterprise starts at a level of just over
1.5:1 in the first year of operation and declines to just over 1:1 by Year 4.  The initial
capitalization of US $1.5 million, reflects the initial contributions of the domestic partners of the
equivalent of about US $1.25 million. At least half of these contributions would be paid in cash.
After restructuring with the foreign partner by the end of the first year of operation, the total
level of capitalization would be brought up to a least US $1.5 million. Net equity is reduced
marginally in Years 2-3 and the enterprise's debt to equity ratio rises to about 2:1. Since the
enterprise's annual net profits exceed US $1.2 million in Years 4 and 5, the debt-to-equity ratio
declines to 0.5:1 by the end of Year 5.
Current Status and Schedule for Registration
2.9          The final corporate structure is still being negotiated with the objective that the
company will be private and that shares held by public institutions will not exceed 49%. The
following participants are envisaged as shareholders:
(a)   The Institute for Oilbearing Crops in Zaporizhzhia. The institute owns
approximately 25% of the stock.
(b)   A company formed by kolkhozes converted into cooperatives or joint stock
companies. These farns are producers of hybrid seeds.
(c)   Company of private individuals.
(d)   UkrAgroBusiness (UAB) and RAIS, private joint-stock enterprises under the laws
of Ukraine.



Annex 2B                                                                      55
(e)   Foreign company(ies).
2.10        To accelerate the fonnation of the company, the Ukrainian partners may form a
"nucleus" company first, but have a stipulation in the shareholder agreement which allows for
the restructuring with foreign participation within one year from the date of registration. Under
this scenario, the nucleus company was registered in February 1995.



Financial Analysis of Sunflower Seed Enterprise
QUANnnES                                                                                                        UNIT COST                                       BASE COST
UNrr                                         YEAR I           YEAR2         YEAR3        YEAR4    YEARS  YEARS &I YEAR I   YEAR2              YEAR3    YEAR4        YEARS5      YEAR -SYEARI    YEARI2  YEAR3   YEAR4   YEARS                 YEAR6-I5
INVESTMENT COST
PLANT EXURISI1ENT                                                                                                                                                                        t3,795,000
VAT IN LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                                       61.11
IMOT TAXES                                                                                                                                                                                  40,946
IMKrTED AU7aUARY EQUI.                                                                                                                                                                      $6.c0
COMPUTERS                                           2                                                                     Xt0                                                              S4,01)
MNTERS                                              2                                                                      SW0                                                             S,0I0
SOFTWARE                                            I                                                                      0                                                               $1.070
TOTAL EQUIP. COSTS
LOCAL COST - MILLION ERR
FPOEGN COST - 5                                                                                                                                                                             6.0C0
VAT TAXES - MILLION KUR                                                                                                                                                                       101
IITM tT TAXES - MIL ERB                                                                                                                                                                       34
CIVIL WOsR
LCCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                                 76.63S
FOREGN COST
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                                       13.106
RECURRENT COSTS
SFED
LOCAL COST- MILLION  RU                         20D0.0          260.0         300.0      35X.0      40D.0    407D.0    209.17       20.66      20.73       201.61     20t.31    x4.51    416.349   542s.  626k195    30.118    834.061        34.041
FOIEGN COST - S
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                                      09,725   90.421   104.366   121.6t6    139,17    139.07
CHEMICALS
LOCAL COST
FOREIGN COST                                    2000.0          26C0.0      3OD.01)    350.00    407.00   407.0D          sI          S0         so         J0         So         sD         So       so        sI       SD          sI         tD
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                                          0         0        0         0           0         0
CUSTOM CLEANING COSTS
LOCAL COST                                     1.70D0           1.70D.0      1.7010      1,700.0    1,70D.0   1.70.0     14.94       14.94      14.94       14.94     14.94      14.94     25.39    25,399    25.39     25.399     2S.39     23.399
FOREIGN COST
TAXES
CONDmONING
LOCAL COST                                      2000.0          260.0        3070.0      3300.0     407.0    407.0       39.81       39.61      39.81      39.61      39.91      39.61     79.616  103.504   119,427   139,332     139.237    159,237
FOREIGN COST
TAXES
ROYALTIES                            3%
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                                 23.37    32.116    ns949    44.646      53,2S      33.669
FOREIGN COST
TAXES
MARKEnNG                             I0%
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                                 04.991   109.621   123.162   149.467   177.m2t    w6kds
FOREIGN COST
TAXES
LEASE OF CW                          12%                                                                                ___                                                                       0        0         0         0          0          0
Ed   bB K     N   _mu 1993                         2s,.0c
UNfT OF KARRVANTnh                              110M.00
VAT LATE                                            20%
IMPORT TAX                                          10%
E4Ysy Phm                                           I.0
S.si,Mty P-i                                         10t
Cm Ou   P  M                                         1.0t
CURRENTER                                         130.ODD
INFLATION FACTOR                                    7.6
OFFICLAL ER                                       107.900
swtemdw                                             so50s
EfIMMW EFR                                        I Ism
5mb MFJT~iqdECmcimJ E_chmnp 19t                    0.9Ris
ILR-26% wCS No F*  Swf



Financial Analysis of Sunflower Seed Enterprise
QUAMNTMES                                                                                           Uon COST                                          AUE COST
UNIT                                         YEA  I        YEAlR2      YEAR3   YEARl4   YEARU   YEARS6-1 YER I   YEAR 2            YEAR3    YEAR4    YEARt          YEAtS-I1 YEAIL     YEAR2    YEAR3    YEAR4    YEAR5               YEAR6SS
r-        TOTAL  44T TAXES NIL KU                                                                                                                                                            41*0           0          0          0           0          0
TOrAL LECUR3Er COSTS
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                    533.334    $13."6      931.132   1     .409. 13  ,49.4    .2WW4e
F3OE    COST                                                                                                                                                                      so         J0         so          O          so         s0
TAXB                                                                                                                                                                            0,.25     90,k41     14.3%      121.06      139.407    13u.7
TOTAL INVDTIENIT COSs
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                       2124                          18.t3          0           0          a          0          o
FOREIGN COST                                                                                                                                                               5U3.e.o            9           0          0          0          0
TAXES                                                                                                      __                                                                   93.110         0          0          0          0          0
SALJES                                                                                                                                              2 
LOCAL- ELIrE                                       3.0            *0.0     10.0      93.0     93.0      90.    I4W40 1.      o.3    1.00.1    114.40    1. 1.60   1,216.40        34.930     63.90      7.61       6.3s2      14.104    16.312
LOCAL-Fl HYDS                                    I.M2,0 340.0  2.3t0.0    2,n7o.0   2.9100    2.9100             45.f0       493.40     43.40      4"3.00     452.40    471.40   71S0.   I.0M.214   LW664        1.14We      1.31.4t4  1.3414.
CUS1I  CLEANING - SUNSEED                          100.0         W10.0    100.0       0.0    IWO        N0 3000    35.39      35.30      35.3*      3S39       3*.39    35.391     3  3_                 3*M 31539              3-'        3.3
CUS7M CLEANING - OTHER                           100            I.4000   10. 0 I.   400.0   1..0 I     4.0 0.0    39.6        IO." 19.4  19.46      19.46      19.46     19 .6    313454     31.434     31.434     31.434      31.434     31.434
FOaGNN- Fl NYDs                                     0e0           0.      40.0      70.0  Ia*.0   35*L00        542,71      s2,471     s2,473   s3.311       s23.7     AXl7          so        3s    6889   91.912.615  tX70X40  12.27.21
VAT ASSESSE                                                                                                                                                                       14.S317    341.334    Io."[    2115.1       243400    254W"
LOCAL SALES                                                                                                                                                                    146.817   1a.4        1,401      215.704    2W3,0    234,187
FCttlGN SALES
VAT CREDrT                                                                                                                                                                       114.3      S9,k41      104.3W     121.64     130.007    13.,07
VAT OWED                                                                                                                                                                              O 0     .113        .325     t4.0a8    304.63      Iis4,
REVENUE LESS COTS                                                                                                                                                                -3ff19J    219.356     mss       34 4        446,70     OR 107
(Eq.usi6 h)                                                                                                                                                                  (32.934.34 1I60.813  S1l4,211  32.,647 S6 3.511D735 4        .3
VALUE OF CW                                                                                                                                                                       979.3o
S LEAID                               0%
VALUE OF STOCK OF INVE5TTU4T
LOCAL CUtRWICY                                                                                                                                                                13135      58.220    142.6D0 32403          I15 ..1     046
3EG4N CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                             1.3.011,11  3,4k      53.08,810  S3.73t03   S3246.&0   W.44
DDECtIATION                          30%
LOCALCOST CM161.5334                                                                                                                                                                      15.6        14.7       1.140      II.6       1%4t.1
WOREN  COSrT                                                                                                                                                                  "Km40      m3m2.8t0    5307.JJI   $177.10    524t4 "      .445
TOTAL NET MARgN                                                                                                                                                               S1.033I Sl,21.7M3  31.^3044    *.37133  0.173.40  53J.6373
tTAL BECOHIEC COSTS                                                                                                                                                           54,49.,37         lo         So         So          a0         S
PA       E TAX                      3                                                                                                                30 (SD 4,451)       910 S1^971  S1.M.813  S1.924.271  5244J47    .13.731   48003
IR AFT11 TAX                        25T                                                                                                                 (4,4-81         30 9   11..494  S13.013.7   S1.l63461  1.3463   S2048.02   9,126
WOSEIN  CAMTAL NUN8
LCtCAL                                                                                                                                                                            D3,011    JJ.3DJ
PO.NW  CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                                      so         S0
PTIE TO FARMER
Fl HYUID                                                                                                          9.5 53     202 33     79535379.33          3         23.03 5933
EIJTE                                                                                                            448 14      4#8.14     40.14    46914       466.14    46144



rmisahiuiasam  Putaiyoo  US  ouisoU vious 010U  &8SIUIJ11;6w
_   R_,43ERAflCIN YER                                       YAR I                                                    YEU 2
CASHFLOW ANALYS#            Ql          02 Q3                     Q4        Ql             Q2             Q3            Q4             Q              2           Q3             Q
OUrTFLOW
1. VEWT CCOM
FCU3GN CURRENCY                              f3SQIC0   Sl.140.3C0 Sl,14Q.Xo0     S1.140.30
LOCAL CURRENCY                                  34.071      24.401    24.C01         24.401
2. VARIABLE COM11
FOREIGN CURRENCY                    sD             sI         so         ID             so             so            so             so           so            sD             f0           s0
LOCALCURRENCY                         0             0           0         a         313.N         Iff.,17        S6,33C         63,73C      407,173       242,491       1folk62         7243
A) SEE TO FARMS
FORQGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                  0         0                                           0              0                                         0             0
O) CHEMICALS
FOR2ON CURRENCY                                               sD         so                                          sD             f0                                       so             s0
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                  0         0                                           0              0                                         0             0
C) CUSTRI CLEANING CO5TS
FOREGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                                   25.369                                                  25.399
D) SEED PURCHASED FRg FARMS
FOEIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                      292,4          125,0                                     379.765       142,73S
E) CONDMONING COSTS
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LDCAL CURRENCY                                                                                      39.800        39.69                                     51.7S2        51.752
F) MA lKENG A ADMIN
FORRGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                       21,14S         21,148        21.148         21,148       27,405        27,405        n.,40          27.4405
G) ROYALTIES
FECDGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                    10.151         15.236                                    131135        19.732
H) INEREST EXPE          3S
FC0F2GN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                        0             0           0         0              0          9.356         15,DI3         1.94             0           576          7.,51             0
U)                             3) TOTAL COMT
FC92EIGNCUXENCY                     so       SM0.10   SI.140310 $1S140,300       $J.140.3W            SD            f0             f0            S0            so            so             S0
LOCAL CURRENCY                        0         54.071     24.W01     24.601        3356.93        195,C17        66,336         63.73S      407,173       242,491        10D,142        72,534



Financial Analysis of Sunflower Seed Enterprise
Ln
PRE-OPERATION YEAR                                                  YEAR I                                                           YEAR 2
CASHFLOW ANALYSIS               Ql           Q2              Q3            Q4         Ql                Q2              Q3              Q4               Qs             02              Q3               Q4
INFLOWS
I) CHARTER CAPITAL
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                     250O,W7                   250,000
LOCAL CURRENCY                                        130,000
2) SEED SALES
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                                                                                     S0             S0               S0                             S0               S0              S0
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                                  521,542          352.361                                        67S.723          452,4S2
3) INTEREST INCOME
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY
4) WB LOAN
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                    535. 100   51,140.3C0  51.140.3C0       S1.140.300
LOCAL CURRENCY
5) VAT TAX CREDIT
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCALLCURRENCY                                                                                                                                    164.35                                                         90.421
TOTAL
FOREIGNCURRENCY                          S0         S630,100   $1,140,300  Sl.390.300       S1.140,3W               S0              S0               S0             S0              S0              S0               S0
LOCALCURRENCY                              0          130.0DD           0           0                0                0         528,542          517,196              0               0         678.723          542.903
NET BALANCE
FOREIGN CURRENCY                         10         S250,00            S0     250,039               50              S0              50               S0             S0              S0               S0              S0
LOCALCURRENCY                              0          75,929       -24,601     -24,601         -338,593        -195.817         442.203          453,458        -407.173       -242.491         578,561          470.366
OUlTSANDING DEBT/CASH
FOREIGN CURRENCY                         S0          250,003  0,0     ,000    50.00.0          500,OOD          50W,0D         50,DD.            50D.000       5W,00          50D(000          500.0C0         50,900D
LOCALCURRENCY                              0          75.929        51,328     26.727          -311,866        -507.684          -65.481         387,977        -19.196        -261,686          316.874         787.241
UNIFIED BALANCE                          So        5334,0b9      S644.829    5705,589      (Sl,898.973)     (S3.405,261)        (S3,697)      S3.484.441      S352.341      (S1.512,971)     S2.937,494      S6,555.69S



Financial Analysis of Sunflower Seed Enterprise
ASSET AND UABIUTY BALANCE - END OF YEAR                YEAR I              YEAR 2              YEAR 3              YEAR 4              YEAR"              YEARS 6-15
ASSETS                                                    $5,954,191          13.6W009            S5.80.727           $5.893,6            56.566959           $7,489,722
FIXED CAPITAL                                           54640,.25           t4,176,269          53.758642           $3,3778             13.044.500          52.740,050
CASHI                                                   S.313,873          51.503,740           S1I.42,085          12.5210,24          $3.5,459            S4.749.672
LAABIULES                                                 55.954.191          t5.680,0D9           5.60D,727          S5.893,602          56566.959           57.489.722
NETEQUITY                                              S2.153,191           51,879,009          $1.799,727          122,82              S4,236359           $5,969,322
LONG0-TERM DEBT                                         $3,801,000          53.801,X0            3,118.,00          53.040.80          52.2tQ,6D0         S1,510.400
SHORT-TERM DEHT                                                S0                  S0                  S0                  S0                  S0                  S0
DEBT-EQUITY RA-nO                                               1.77                2.02                2.11                 1.07               0.53                0.25
WB LOAN REPAYMENT SCHEDULE
INMAL STOCK OF DEBT                                            S0           53,801,0D0          53J01,0D00           3.1180DI           $3,040.800          S2.280,6W
DISBURSEMENT FUNDS                                     53.11,0D00                  S0                  S0                  S0                  S0                  S0
PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS                                             S0                  S0                  S0            5760,200            S760.200            5760,200
FINAL STOCK OP DEBT                                    U3,801,00D0           3,801.000         $3,801,33            U1.04D,00          11.210.600           Sl.520.4C0
INTERESTPAYMENTS                                         S475,125            t475.125            S475.125            5380.00            2SS.075             S120,050
TOTAL PAYMENTS                         12.50%            S475,125            $475.125            t475.125          $1,140,30D0          1.045.275            S950,250
NET MARGIN                                                51.073,382          $,.221,783          Sl.506.644          S2.250.m7t          53,175.460          U3,696.373
FINANCE CHARGES                                            S475,125            5679,363            SS39,944             30D.20             5285.075           1190,050
INCOMETAX                                   30%            $179,477      S       162.726      S290.010                 5573.205      5      867,116          S1.051.897
NET PROFIT                                                 5418.780            U379.694            S676.690           1,337.478          12.023,270          S2.454.426
RETAINED PROFT                                             5418,780            $189,847            t338.345            S66,739           Sl,011,633          51,227.213
PROFIT DISllUBUllON                         50%                  0%                 50%                 50%                 50%                 50%                 50%
0



ANNEX 2C
PROFILES ON SEED ENTERPRISES
C. Sugarbeet Seed Production Company
2.1           The company will be formed as a private company with limited liability under the
laws of Ukraine, and will be located in Trostianets (near Sumy). The company's highest body
will be the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. They will approve the annual report, any changes
to the statutes and to the capital structure of the company, and will elect a Board of Directors,
the Chairman, and the auditors. The Board of Directors will meet quarterly and supervise the
activities of management. All operating plans, investment plans, budgets, and real estate
transactions, as well as the appointment and dismissal of the General Director, have to be
approved by the Board.
Company Activities
2.2           The company plans to produce annually about 40,000 units (100,000 seeds per
unit) of foundation seed and about 1 million units of hybrid sugarbeet seed and sell it in Ukraine
and in export markets. To this end, the company will enter into licensing agreements with
breeders for the right to produce and market hybrids developed by these breeders.
2.3           The company will refurbish an existing sugarbeet seed conditioning facility in
Trostianets. The land and buildings belong to the UAAS, and the company will gain access to
these facilities, either by UAAS contribution to the capitalization of the firm or through a long-
term lease for this property. All buildings are brick structures and in good condition.
2.4           The company will enter into production contracts for 40,000 units of foundation
seed with the experimental farms of the Institute for Sugarbeet. These farms will manage the
production in the field and will dry the seed after the harvest. The seed will then be delivered
to the conditioning facility. To produce hybrid seed, the company will contract with farms
which have drying capability for the seed after harvest, and which will deliver the dried seed
to the facility at Trostianets.
2.5           Modern sugarbeet seed production employs two distinct technologies in the field,
since the sugarbeet is a plant which produces its seed only in the second year (the plants need
to be vernalized). These technologies are the steckling method and the direct planting method."5
15    Steckling Method. This is the traditional technology, which involves transplanting. In the fall of the first
year, the young plants are uprooted and stored in a covered pile and protected against severe frost. They are
then replanted the following spring, and seeds can be harvested early in the fall of the second year. Direct
Planting Method. This is a more recent technology, which can only be used only in environments with relatively
mild winters (outside of the traditional sugarbeet growing areas). The seeds are planted late in the summer of
(continued...)



62                                                          Ukraine Seed Development Project
The company plans to engage both methods of production. About 70% of the hybrid seeds will
be produced in the south of Ukraine using the direct planting method, and about 30% will be
produced in the traditional sugarbeet growing area with the steckling method. However, all
foundation seed will be produced with the steckling method.
2.6            Sugarbeet seed conditioning involves sophisticated methods for applying seed
protectants; they are known as "encrusting" and "pelletizing""7. The conditioning facility at
Trostianets will be equipped with both technologies, so that the company can successfully
compete with Western companies using modem technology in the domestic and the export
markets.
2.7           The company will market its seed through distributors and dealers, as well as
through licensees. About 51% of the company's hybrid seeds will be sold in Ukraine,
representing a market share of about 10% (this percentage is expected to increase to about 25-30
percent as the market shrinks because of the use of improved seeds and resulting lower seeding
rates). All the company's foundation seed will be used in Ukraine: 75% will be used by the
company for the production of commercial seed and 25% will be sold to other hybrid seed
producers; hybrid seeds produced by these producers may represent about 11 % of the market
share.
Financial Projections
2.8           The financial projections for the sugarbeet enterprise, attached to this Annex,
indicate that the company will be profitable in the first year of seed sales. Net profit after tax
in years 5-10 is estimated at about US $3.5 million per year. However, prior to its first selling
season, the company will have to finance the initial investment in plant and auxiliary agricultural
equipment and seed production, which will require significant borrowings in local currency.
These borrowings are projected to peak at an equivalent of about US $7.3 million in the second
16( . continued)
the first year, the young plantings remain in the ground over winter, and seed is harvested in the early fall of
the second year. Direct planting generally produces a much higher quality seed (with better germination and
vigor), but it involves a greater risk of losing the seed crop to frost if very cold temperatures attack the young
plantings. In Westem Europe, more than 90% of sugarbeet seed production today uses the direct planting
method.
17     Sugarbeer seed treatment technology. While almost all sugarbeet seed produced in Ukraine today is sold
.naked" (chemicals are only applied in dust form), all Western companies are either 'encrusting" their seeds
(the chemicals are applied with an adhesive), or they are pelletizing them (producing uniform round pellets,
chemicals also having been applied with an adhesive). Both of these methodologies provide better protection for
the seed than the way in which seed is currently treated in Ukraine; they are more efficient in the dosage of the
chemicals and thus environmentally friendlier. Pelletized seeds require more moisture in the soil to germinate.
Hence, the market for pelletized seeds in Ukraine is limited to the western sugarbeet growing areas.



Anne-x 2C                                                                          63
quarter of the project's first year of operation and to cease in Year 3 (see attached projected cash
flow).
2.9          The debt-to-equity ratio for the sugarbeet enterprise starts at a level of just over
1.5:1 in the first year of operation and declines to less than 1:1 by Year 4. The fairly low initial
ratio (compared to the maize seed enterprise) reflects the lower investment needed to establish
the enterprise's operations (US $5 million), an initial capitalization of US $1.75 million, and
net profits exceeding US $0.8 million in the first year of operation. The initial level of
capitalization is equivalent to the initial contributions of the domestic partners of about US $1.5
million (including an investment by UAB of US $0.5 million).  At least half of these
contributions would be paid in cash. After restructuring with the foreign partner by the end of
the first year of operation, the total level of capitalization would be brought up to at least US
$1.75 million. Since the sugarbeet enterprise's annual net profits exceed US $1.8 million in
Years 4-5 of the project's operation, the debt-to-equity ratio declines to 0.5:1 by the end of Year
5.
Current Status and Schedule for Registration
2.10         The final corporate structure is still being negotiated with the objective that the
company will be private and that shares held by public institutions will not exceed 49%. The
following participants are envisaged as shareholders:
(a)    The Institute for Sugarbeet in Kiev and its associated Experimental Farms.
Together they hold less than 30% of the stock.
(b)   A group of seed producers and a group of seed customers (all kolkhozes converted
into cooperatives or joint stock companies, or private farmers). Together these
groups hold about 10% of the stock.
(c)   Privatized plants from UKRSACHAR. They hold about 5 % of the stock.
(d)   Private individuals. They will hold about 40% of the stock.
(e)    Foreign companies, which are in the process of being identified. They will hold
about 15% of the stock.
2.11         To accelerate the formation of the company, the Ukrainian partners may form a
"nucleus" company first, but have a stipulation in the shareholder agreement which allows for
the restructuring with foreign participation within one year from the date of registration. Under
this scenario, the nucleus company was registered in February 1995. The two foreign joint-
venture partners are currently negotiating with the nucleus company about the levels of their
shareholdings in the future expanded seed enterprise.



Financial Analysis of Sugarbeet Enterprise
QUAtfWlE                                                      UNIT COST                                                       -AE COST
UNIT                                        YEAtI       YEAR2   YLAR3   YEAR4   YEAlt5  YLARt35   YEA  I   YEAR2    YEAL3    YEAX4    YEARS   YEAR64S                      YEA61       YEAR2      YEAR3        YEAR4         YEARs         YEA"6-13
INVEST4ENT caTs
FLANT REFUUS8ME34r                                                                                                                                                        54.119.25
VAT IN LOCAL CUSENCY                                                                                                                                                        ff9t4
D-      TAXEs                                                                                                                                                               44.447
14POItTE AUXOUARY EQUIP.                                                                                                                                                    191201
SEED DLLS                                        6                                                        140                                                             SlU.0
SPLAYEuS                                         6                                                        11o                                                             S106,0%)
STECELNG HARVEST 4ACHINES                        6                                                         6=                                                              s.o0
sTECLUNG PLANTING MACHNIES                        6                                                       sS54o
Ca4ONNs                                          6                                                        so                                                                 0.000
DRYERS                                                                                                    mm
COMPUTERS                                        2                                                        2X0                                                               t4,m
MENTERS                                          2                                                         30                                                               SI,=
SCFTWAIE                                          I                                                        IOI                                                              Sl.,O
TOTAL EQUP. COSTS WI VAT
LoCAL COST - MILUON Eus
FOS3GN COST - S                                                                                                                                                           1912.00o
VAT TAXES -11LULON Kut                                                                                                                                                      16401
IMP1OT TAXES - MILRB K2;0
CFVIL WORLS
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                  54,633
FOWOGN COST
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                       9, 106
FECUtWNT coSTs
sEED
LOCAL CST - MILUONtK                             Stt    109t3      1247     1333     1471        1507  1006.06      931.13     914.44    4.34      839".4     66.23        935.144  1.039.641   I.40.513     1.2D4.456      1.254.407       1,305.356
FOQUGN COST - $
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                       42.525   173274       193.116      20D74         2131,63         217.360
CHED41CALS
LtCAL COST
FOEIGN COST                                     no8    1093       1247      1333     1471        1507     5747       5747       5747      5747       S747      5747       63.ff0   516,513      531.675    11.010.525       1.,08713       6I.122.6m
TAXIES                                                                                                                                                                      11.419    14.664      16.75. It175                19.759          20.244
COSTS OF PELLFnziNG
LOCALCC6T                                         0        49       a        104      153         194    524.49     524.4      524.48     24.46    524.48     524.48           0    25.495        3I6422       54.633         4.139          101'.st
FOaSGEt COST
TAXEs                                                                                                                                                                           0     4.249        6.070        9.106         13.355          16.987
CONDMONING
LOCALCOST                                       930      W73      1247      1353     1471        1507    43.49      43.49      43.9      43.49      43.49      43.49       36.96,    47.53        S4.39        st130          63.964          65.534
FOaEtOGN COST
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                       6 16J     7,922        9.00         9. c5         10.661          J10.20
ROYALlIEs                            7S
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                 111,910   131,312     154.716       139.813        I73.M          179.499
FOCEGN COST
TAXES
MAIXERKNG                           loS
LOCAL CMST                                                                                                                                                                159.5    197.569      2153tN0       231.54        2sD.404         256,0
FCPItGN COST
TAXES
LEASE OF CW A4ACH, -                12%                                                                                                                                           0         0            0            0              0               0
E.d_ R_ I Ne. 1993                              25.09o
UNIT Of KAODDVATSI                            LtO.CC0
VAT RAnT                                          205
IMtraET TAX                                       lo%
E36cky h                                           L.a
Ss40f PLO 1.95   wms.63
CON 'J  Po                                         L_ 6135 &   69%  fe 1.2
CUR EN'TER                                     I30.0 0
INFLATION FACTOR                                  1.74
OfFICIAL ER                                    107.9
-        'I5s
E3hmw ER                                         l10
R.o d tfifhuhC uM                                0.915
.R- S96 w  No Fx S.o.



Financial Analysis of Sugarbeet Enterprise
u-I
UTT                                              YA   I         IEARA  YEARS   1Y3*4    YEAS   YI3A6-t5    YARt    YEAk2                       YEAR3    Y1A 4    YTARS   YIAR6I5                hEa          YU EAS       YEAR 3         YEAR 4         YeAR 5          YEAR 645
TOTAL IMPOT TAXB MIL  1                                                                                                                                                                             8L647           0             0              0                0                 0
TOTAL RCUR3EWT COM
UOCAL COT                                                                                                                                                                                      I.a,em     1,44I,57       'm 3           .1w4,           JA,em            1J6L
FOBWG  COlT                                                                                                                                                                                    sm.i    333,52               2,673     S3.H00,         SI.CI7135.2.4
TAXCS                                                                                                                                                                                            w1,.4    2831131 2.1J                  237.621          2.,457            X5.723
TOTAL f4VEIEMErT COM
LOCAL C05T                                                                                                                                                                                       34.42 33                      9 o            e 
FD004 CONT                                                                                                                                                                                   85.83.             4              0              0               *                 0
TAXES                                                                                                                                                                                           114,400          0             6              0                0                0
SALE3
LOCAL  . ELr.E                                            72        72         67         61        61           3         9.04        9,046       9,048      9,046       9.046       9.046        6,407    ff3.467         443.30         552,933          551.933          3L667
LOCAL . Fl HYIUDS                                        5         417        466        46565%                 5s         1.3   .3           .36   .3          . 1,346    .326       234          36m        55233         *444W7         444.23           74607            734,647
LOCAL PELLEI2ZED                                           0        49         49        I04        153         194        2.657       2,452       1,657      2.6a2       26s2        2.651             0    IU2,97         14.167         274Je            40,167           5U44,7
FOOGN -F IHYMHY 2DS                                      S;        556        QS         702       701 52        6       S .876      567 ,S    76 s7 s nso 5.76                                 S4,437.750 $4.930833      S5,547,11S6   S.2n177          S22              5475,177 5, [TY
VAT ASSESSED                                                                                                                                                                                       17703t0    ZZ2,461       2316.4         245.45           2S2.442          35.L4
LOCAL SALES                                                                                                                                                                                     170.3      222,461       236L6s         W,862           2,441              M.5
FOPC5GN SALES
VAT CREDT                                                                                                                                                                                          274,24      0.129        222.503        237,e32          239.457          3n.u23
VAT OWED                                                                                                                                                                                          (104,24)    22.352         14.70(          7.797           z2,C4             ,77T
LOCAL SALES                                                                                                                                                                                    (104.204)    22,3s2        16.7(3          7.797          23.C4              74m
FORE3GN SALES
REVENUE LESS COTS                                                                                                                                                                                 (304.4)   3s,a80          418,060        437.1cs          474.326          482.336
(6F      IS)                                                                                                                                                                                   (52.345.142) 53.067.6s    53.21.46       53,347,760       $3,641,45        53.710.430
CONnTUIwVID CW A MAC                  6sx                                                                                                                                                           94.40
PERCENTAGE LEASED                        0%
VALUE OF STOCK OF INVEST4ENT
LOCALCUVRENCY                                                                                                                                                                                   139,133    225226        112,2N         101.42S          91.2S5            82,157
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                                              5.031.256  54.252 130    54.075.317    53.667.766       53.301.037       S7.956.53s
DEFPECIATON                              10$
LOCAL COST                                                                                                                                                                                  13913.31463     12.Sn         11.270         10.243           9,229             6.216
FOREIGN COST                                                                                                                                                                                   $93, 126   5452.613      s407.532       S364779         533, 101          S297,492
TOTAL NET MARGIN                                                                                                                                                                                S2.603.243  2.6515.036   S7.11,314      S3.40.21         53.31s.5s4       53,413,340
TOTAL ECONOMICCOSTS                                                                                                                                                                             S6,04461   541.513         40.675        2.020,V22       52L00713          62.125.66
IRR IIEFORE TAX                         42$                                                                                                                     sD (55,4s52.5)          so      53.304349  53.067.49     #3.2155.46     53.37,76         53,464.65s        3.710.430
[R AFrER TAX                             29J                                                                                                                        (ss.452.32 )        so      .524.5,04  S2.6n,p    SZ.749.122         72,6126403      62.766.299       62,12.97
WORXING CAPrrAL NEEDS
LOCAL                                                                                                                                                                                            1,166,33    2SS.3S4        240,439        29633           492.0to           439.624
FOIUIGN CURRENCY                                                                                                                                                                                  S634.950        so             so             so              sD                S0
MICE TO FAXItER
Ft HIUDS                                                                                                                 404.83      404 63      404.83      404.83     404.83      404.83
lillTE                                                                                                                 1, 2 1552   1,ElJ.21     12,35 21    1953.21    12.95.21    12,9.21



Financial Analysis of Sugarbeet Enterprise
PRE-OPERATION YEAR                                      YEAR I                                        YEAR 2
CASHFLOW ANALYSIS                        Ql              Q2         Q3          Q4         Ql           Q2          Q3         Q4         Ql          Q2         Q3          Q4
OUTFLOW
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                           S503,126  $S,5C9.377  Sl.509,3T7   S159,377
LOCAL CURRENCY                                               37.846       58.905     31,581      31,588
2. VARIABLE COSTS
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                     $0         S0    S273.558   sn3.558            S0           S0    351,781   S351.781         S0         S0    $401,39?   $401.397
LOCAL CURRENCY                                         0          0        5,709      5,709     70.540       205,432    135,429    132,392    933,092    329,46     272,993    160,527
A) CHEMICALS
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                                       S273,558   SZ73.55                             5351.731    351.781                           S401.397  S401r397
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                             5,709      5,709                               7.342      7,342                             s.37       8.377
B) SEED PURCHASED FROM FARMS
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                  726,875      128,22                           883,695    155,946
C) CONDrrIONING COSTS
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                    3.696       14,786     14,786      3,696                98,795      96.795
D) PELLETIZING COSTS
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                              0                                         25,495
E) MARKETING & ADMIN
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                   39,968       39,968     39,968     39,968     49,397     49,397      49,397    49,397
F) ROYALTIES
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                           44,764     67.146                            55.325     82,987
G) INTEREST EXPENSE                  3%
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                        0           0           0          0           0(      22,407      28,5701    14.240          ol    25,708|     35,603|   19.7651
3) TOTAL COSTS
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                     S0   S503.126   $1,782,934  S1,782,934   S1,509,377        S0   $351.781      351,781        S0         S0    $401,397   S401.397
LOCAL CURRENCY                                         0     37,846       64,614     37,298     502.128      205.432    135,429    132.392    933.092    329.846     272.993    160,527



Financial Analysis of Sugarbeet Enterprise
PRE-OPERATION YEAR                                         YEAR I                                           YEAR 2
CASHFLOW ANALYSIS                          QI               Q2          Q3           Q4          QI           Q2           Q3          Q4          QI          Q2         Q3           Q4
INFLOWS
1) CHARTER CAPITAL
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                                                       S250.003
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                  195.0_0
2) SEED SALES
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                                                                                  $443,775  S2.662.650  S1,331,325               $493,03    2.958,503 S1,479.250
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                                 613,0S0    406,720                              800.930    533,953
3) INTEREST INCOME
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY
4) WB LOAN
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                              S503.126   $1.509,3T7  $15,3T7   11509.377
LOCAL CURRENCY
5) VAT TAX CREDIT
FOREIGN CURRENCY
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                                                                                            274,504                                         20D,129
TOTAL
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                         0    S503,126   $1,509.377  $1,759,377   $1.509,377     1443,775  S2,662.650 Sl.331,325           $0   $493,083   S2.958.500 S1.479,250
LOCAL CURRENCY                                            0     195,000            0          0            0             0     613,080    683,224           0           0      800,930    734,082
NET BALANCE
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                        So          S0    (S273.558)   (123.558)          S0     S443,775  12,310,869   1979,544           S0   $493,083   S2.557.103 $1,077,853
LOCAL CURRENCY                                            0     157.154      .64.614     -37,298     -802,128     -205,432     477.651    550,832    -933,092    -329,846      527.937    573,555
OUTSTANDING DEBT/CASH
FOREIGN CURRENCY                                        S0          S0    (1273,558)  (S297,115)   (1297,115)    S146,660  S2,457,529 S3,437,073  13,437,073  S3,930,136   16,417,260 S7.565,113
LOCAL CURRENCY                                            0     157.154       92,W40      55.242     -746,886     -952,318    -474,667     76,165     -56.927  -1,186,73    .658,.36    45,280
UNIFIED BALANCE                                         $0  S1.208,877     $438,287   S127,825  (S6.042.389)  ($7,178,863) (51,193,753) $4,022,961  (13,154.672) (&5.198.865)  S1,419,294 16,909,109



Financial Analysis of Sugarbeet Enterprise
ASST AND LIA ryL ALANCE- EN  OF YEAR                     YEAR I                 YEAR 2                  YEAR3                  YEAR 4                  YEARS                 YEAR 615
ASSETS                                                       1S63.140                S&11567                IS.m 6                  16.53.30               S9=412                 S110.02746
FDIED CANrAL                                               15.491.30               S4942,224              S4,446.031              S4.033.301                         S3A0        3,42,9
CASH                                                       $2.711,780              83.231.344             53.775.54               $4*150,104             S3,679.531              SVI78 3
UJABLflhES                                                    16,23.140             S33.17567               SK23. 6                 16.653.30              S9,2412                S10.02&746
NETr EQUFrY                                                33.171.14               33.142311              $3,192.60              S4.631                  16.263.19              $5,016,244
L(NG-TERM DRET                                             15,03106                15.30316               35.031.2M6              64.A5M                 33,018754              $2.012.3M
SHOr-TEMDEr                                                        SO                     ID                      SO                     SD                     SO           S0
DERT-EQurrY RATIO                                                   1.59                    1.60                   1.                     07                     0.48                    0.5
LOAN REPAYMENT SCHEDULE
wnAL STOCK OF DERBT                                                0               15.031.256             15.03156               35.03I56                14.005.005             33.015,754
DIUURSEMENr FUNDS                                          55.031.25                      SD                     so                      $0                     S0                      S0
PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS                                                $0                      S0                     sD              SIA.06M51               $1.006251              $1.0w65
FINAL StOCK OF DEBT                                        S5.031.256              15.031256               5.031.256              14.m5.005              53.018.754             32.012=
UINEREST PAYME                                               $62,907                s62.907                 562S.907               s53.126                 3377.44                 25136
TOTAL PAYMENTS                          12.50S               3621.997               s62n.9D7                5621,907              11.509377              51.383,59f             5I7.814
NET MARGIN                                                   S2.603.243              S2.615,036               2,3.W,314             53,00D.91              53.31U564               S3.413,340
FINANCE CHARGES                                                162S,907              $1,130-W69             S11252569                S503,126                S377.344               S251,563
INCOME TAX                                  30%                S592,301               S445,340                1466,724               S749,357                SU2,366                $948,533
NET PROFIrr                                                    1,382.035            S1,039,126              51,0S9,022              51.74S.499             s2,e53,854              S2,213.244
RETAINED PROFIT                                              S1.382.035               S519,563                S544.511               SS74.249              $1.029.427              S1.106,622
PROFrT DLSRBUTRIONS                         50S                     01                     50S                    50%                     50%                    50S                     50S
'IO



ANNEX 3
DETAILED COST AND PHASING



Cost and Phasing by Component
(US $ million)
1995             1996             1997             Total        Total
Loc     For      Loc      For     Loc      For      Loc      For
w  | Seed Production          3.45     3.12    23.25    16.47     _       0.30    26.70    19.89   46.60
't   Regulatory Framework      -       0.13      -       0.24     _       1.97      -      2.34     2.34
2   Germplasm Maintenance     0.14     2.00     0.02     0.54     -       0.20     0.16    2.75    2.91
Project Management Unit    0.02   0.18     0.02     0.07    0.02     0.02     0.06    0.28     0.34
Total Base Cost          3.61     5.43    23.29    17.32    0.02     2.50    26.92    25.26    52.19
Physical Contingencies'   0.65  0.98    4.19     3.12     -       0.45     4.85    4.55     9.40
Price Contingencies2   0.06    0.10     0.81     0.60     -       0.14     0.87     0.84    1.71
TOTAL COST            4.32    6.51    28.29    21.04    0.02     3.09    32.64    30.65    63.30
18 %
2/ March-Dec. 1994: 1.0%; 1995: 1.5%; 1996: 1.8%; 1997: 2.6%



Cost and Phasing of Seed Production Component
(US $ million)
1995              1996              1997              Total         Total
Loc      For      Loc      For      Loc      For      Loc       For
Maize Enterprise        2.41     1.70     9.79     8.65      _       0.10     12.20    10.46    22.66
Seed Plant           0.40     1.50     1.84     7.50               -       2.24      9.00    11.24
Civil Works          0.50      -       1.00      -        -        -        1.50      -       1.50
Agr. Machinery       0.05     0.15     0.20     1.00      -        -       0.25      1.15     1.40
Working Capital      1.46      -       6.75      -        -        -       8.21      -        8.21
Tech. AsstlTrain.    -        0.05      -       0.15      -       0.10      -        0.30    0.30
Sunflower Enterprise   0.59      0.55     4.95     3.46     1.69*    0.10     5.54     4.10     9.65
Seed Plant          0.12      0.50     0.82     3.30      -        -       0.94      3.80    4.74
Civil Works         0.47       -       0.20      -                         0.67      -       0.67
Agr. Machinery       _         _        -       0.01           -            -       0.01     0.01
Working Capital      -         -       3.93      -       1.69*     -       3.93      -       3.93
Tech. Asst./Train.   -        0.05      -       0.15      -       0.10      -       0.30     0.30
Sugarbeet Enterprise   0.45     0.87      8.51     4.36     6.0*     0.10     8.96     5.33     14.29
Seed Plant          0.18      0.62     0.85     3.50      -        -       1.03     4.12     5.15
Civil Works         0.22       -       0.20          -             -       0.42      -       0.42
Agr. Machinery      0.05      0.20     0.14     0.71      -        -       0.19     0.91      1.10
Working Capital      -         -       7.32      -      6.00*      -       7.32      -       7.32
Tech. Asst./Train.   -        0.05      -       0.15      -       0.10      -       0.30     0.30
TOTAL    3.45      3.12     23.25    16.47    7.69*     0.30     26.70    19.89    46.60
Amounts are non-cumulative



Cost and Phasing of Regulatory Framework Component
(US $ thousand)
Year 1         Year 2          Year 3            Total
Loc    For    LOC    For    Loc         For     LOC    For    TOTAL
r    Equipment& Machinery              _        _      _      237.0            1,970.0         2,207.0    2,207.0
Seed Certification             _        _     _      237.0    _          _     _        237.0      237.0
Variety Testing                                        -              1,970.0         1,970.0    1,970.0
Technical Assistance             -       106.8   _-                        - _             106.8      106.8
Electrophoresis               -        14.2     _                                        14.2       14.2
Crop Inspection                _        8.6   -_    __     __                  _          8.6        8.6
Review Variety Trials          -       38.0   -       -                                  38.0       38.0
DUS Testing & Seed Certification  -    27.0   -       -                                  27.0       27.0
Seed Legislation     Review   -        19.0   -       -       _         _                19.0       19.0
Training                         -        27.0   -       -                 _      _        27.0       27.0
TOTAL                  133.8          237.0  -       I 1,970.0         2,340.8    2,340.8



Cost and Phasing of Germplasm Maintenance Component
(US $ thousand)
Year I           Year 2           Year 3           Total
TOTAL
Loc      For      Loc     For    Loc    For    Loc         For
FAuipment& Machinenr         127.0   1808.0     -       60.0    -       60.0   127.0    2008.0  2,135.0
Sugarbeet Institute        56.0    720.0      -      20.0    -       20.0    56.0      760.0    816.0
Maize Institute            37.0    460.0      -      20.0    -       20.0    37.0      500.0   537.0
Sunseed Institute          34.0    428.0             20.0            20.0    34.0     468.0    502.0
Agro- Ecology/Biotech Inst.    -    200.0     -     200.0    -       -       -        400.0   400.0
Technical Assistance for Agric.    10.0  50.0    20.0   140.0    -      -       30.0     190.0   220.0
.Training-                            144.0     -      144.0    -      144.0    -        432.0    432.0
Sugarbeet Institute        -        48.0      -      48.0    -       48.0    -         144.0   144.0
Maize Institute            -        48.0     -       48.0    -       48.0    -         144.0   144.0
Sunseed Institute          -        48.0     -       48.0    -       48.0    -         144.0    144.0
TOTAL            137.0   2002.0    20.0  544.0    -        204.0   157.0    2750.0   2907.0
Cf.



Cost and Phasing of Project Management Unit (US $)
Year 1               Year 2                Year 3                 Total
Loc        For       Loc        For        Loc        For        Loc        For       TOTAL
-$    |Office Eguipment
3 sets comp +       2000      10000                                                  2000       10000       12000
accessories, furn. 
Staff
Proj. Manager       4200         -       4200          -       4200          -      12600          -        12600
Adm. Asst.          3600         -       3600          -       3600          -       10800         -        10800
Bil. Sec.           2400         -       2400          -       2400          -       7200          -         7200
Operating
Expenditures                                         ____
Stationery           500         -        500          -        500         -        1500          -         1500
Communication       1000         -       1000          -       1000         -        3000          -         3000
Int. Travel         2000         -       2000          -        1900         -       5900          -         5900
Ext. Travel           -        4000         -        4000         -       4000          -       12000       12000
Audit Fees          5000      10000      5000       10000      5000      10000      15000       30000       45000
Tech. Asst.
15-month Long-term      _     150000         _       50000         _          -          _      200000      200000
Consultant*                                                                                                            l
30-day Short-term       -       10000        -       10000         -       10000         -       30000       30000
Consultant*
TOTAL   20700       184000     18700       74000     18600      24000      58000     282000       340000
Including s9aar'ie_s_, alowances and external travel



ANNEX 4
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIc ANALYSIS
Financial Analysis
4.1           The financial analysis of the project is based on the financial projections for the three seed
enterprises presented in Annexes 2A, 2B and 2C. It focuses on the returns to investment in each of the
three seed conditioning plants. The accounts for these plants are broken down into the costs and revenues
for the first six years of their operation, starting with the year that the initial investments are made. For
the purposes of the analysis, years 7 and beyond are taken as having the same revenue and cost structure
as in year 6. Accounts are separated into local and foreign currency, with all taxes paid in local
currency.
4.2          Investment costs are separated into new plant equipment and civil works. Recurrent costs
are separated into seed provided to farmers, seed of the next generation purchased from farms growing
on contract for the conditioning plants, chemicals, transport, conditioning, royalties, and marketing. All
costs and revenues are presented as the multiplication of their quantity and unit cost or price components.
All unit recurrent costs for seed, conditioning, chemicals, and transport are expressed in terms of local
or foreign currency spent for the amount of the input required to produce 1 unit of output. Royalties and
marketing costs are calculated as shares of total sales. Aside from the initial investments and chemicals
used in conditioning, all costs are in local currency.
4.3           The output levels of each of the plants at full development in the sixth year are expected
to reach 4,000 tons for hybrid sunflower seed, 1,500 tons of hybrid sugarbeet seed, and 6,950 tons of
hybrid maize seed.
4.4           Each plant's output mix between foundation and Fl hybrid sales changes over the six-year
period. At the sugarbeet seed enterprise, foundation (elite) seed production falls about 20% over six
years, while Fl hybrid seed production (including pelletized form) almost doubles. For the maize plant,
foundation seed becomes more important (higher output and large share of output) with time. For
sunflower seeds, production of foundation (elite) seeds grows, but the share of elite seeds in total output
falls over the period. For the sugarbeet and maize plants, exports grow in terms of quantity by about
30% over six years. Exports of seed for sunflower are zero in the first two years, but rise to 1,000 tons
by year 6, accounting for 25% of production by then.
4.5           Data on local costs and output prices were gathered in March 1994. Subsequently they
have been updated to the levels of December 1994 and translated into foreign currency (U.S. dollars)
when necessary at the rate of 130,000 karbovantsi per U.S. dollar.
4.6           Two factors which affect the seed plants' financial viability and cash flow are the
imposition of a foreign exchange surrender and a value added tax (VAT) on imported and domestic
equipment and on all other inputs. The foreign exchange surrender of 50% of hard currency revenues
at an interbank currency exchange rate, which is about 80% of the commercial rate, amounts to tax on
export sales of 10%. The small share of imported inputs in variable costs amounts to a smnall hard
currency requirement for the operation of the plants. Hence, the foreign exchange surrender does not
impede the enterprises' operation. Nevertheless, the financial rates of return on invested capital (FRR)
are ultimately reduced by any surrender requirement.



76                                                        Ukraine Seed Development Project
4.7           The VAT on imported equipment has a small effect on the FRR because the VAT paid
on imports is credited against VAT to be paid on final sales. The large size of the investments relative
to sales, their concentration in year I of the project, and the relatively high VAT of 20% all combine to
generate a sizeable negative impact on the enterprises' cash flow. Large local currency financing gaps
arise in the enterprises' first year of operation (VAT is paid in local currency), ranging from the
equivalent of US $4 million to US $8 million. These financing gaps are compensated by local sales in
the first year of operations.
4.8           The base levels of after tax FRR for the investments made in each of the plants, with the
surrender of 50% of foreign exchange earnings and VAT of 20% on domestic sales, range from 29% for
the sugarbeet seed enterprise, to 25% for both the maize seed and sunflower seed operations,
respectively. The calculation of these rates assumes that the investmnents are actually made before the first
year of operation and that the receipts of year 1 operations are received at the end of year 1. (Table A
4.1).
Economic Analysis
4.9           The economic analysis of the project focuses on the quantifiable benefits resulting from
the domestic utilization of the hybrid seed produced by the three seed enterprises. Additional benefits
will arise from the training and investments made in germplasm  maintenance and the regulatory
framework, but are beyond measurement as they involve boosting capital resources (both physical and
human) in the seed research and certification areas. The investments, technical assistance, and training
in these areas (including management training at the seed enterprises) total roughly US $5 million and
are included in the overall stream of costs in the economic analysis. In an effort to conservatively
estimate the economic rate of return (ERR) on project investments, no benefits from the public sector
investment and technical assistance are added to the project's benefit stream.
4.10          The economic benefits calculated from the seed enterprises' activities are limited to the
ones generated by hybrid seed production. The benefits from production of foundation seeds are not
included in the analysis because they are relatively small and difficult to calculate. Benefits from Fl
hybrids produced by the project are examined through their effects on seeding rates and yields of the
crops they produce.
4.11          Seeding rates on farms throughout Ukraine are relatively high for sugarbeet, corn, and
sunflower because of the low quality of hybrid seed. Not all the batches of hybrid seed currently used
are actually hybrid seed, and seeding rates are consequently 30-50% higher than in Western countries.
With the level of purity of hybrid seed greatly improved by the seed enterprises in the project, the amount
of seed produced by these enterprises will allow a larger area to be planted with a given amount of seed.
The incremental area that can be seeded is the first type of economic benefit. The second, which arises
from the enterprises' seed quality improvements, is associated with higher yields from improved seed.
Currently, the yields for sugarbeet and maize are less than half of Western European levels; sunflower
yields are relatively higher, but are still only 60-70% of Western European yield levels. With higher-
quality seeds, Ukrainian yields for these crops would be improved substantially.
4.12          Both the reduction of seeding rates and improvement of crop yields associated with
higher-quality seeds produced by the project's three enterprises are also a function of the availability and



Annex 4                                                                                    77
quality of other inputs used. It is not assumed that the input supply situation would appreciably improve
over the life of the project and the assumed limited yet tangible progress in seeding rates and yields would
be relieved by using currently available agricultural technology.
4.13          Seeding rates are expected to drop 10-20% over a six-year period (depending on the
particular crop) by using the project's improved seed. Yield increases are estimated to reach 7-20 % over
the same six-year period, but starting only in the project's third year of operation. (Maize yields improve
the most, while sunflower yields rise only 2% per year for the four years). The yield increases pertain
mainly to the area seeded in the base year with the project's year 1 seed. Since incremental areas can
be seeded with the seed saved through reduced seeding rates, the output raised on these areas is counted
as a project benefit. The higher yields attained on these incremental areas is counted as a second-round
project benefit.
4.14          In this way, the incremental output produced from the improved seed of the project's
three enterprises is set off against the project's incremental costs, with the latter including all the project's
investment in plant, equipment, civil works, training, and technical assistance. The first six years of
project benefits are quantified in crop output and then translated into monetary terms by pricing the crops
at border prices for these crops. The border prices for these crops are expected to rise over time from
their current levels of roughly one-third of world market price levels to about 75 % of world market levels
by the end of year 6. This growth of border prices (by about 15% per year) is meant to reflect Ukraine's
increasing linkage to world markets and the consequent improvement of farm-gate prices with the
emergence of regional and national markets.
4.15          Comparing the stream of economic benefits from improved hybrid seeds with the total
costs for all project components, the project yields a rate of return of 19% per year, generating a net
present value of net project benefits of US $53 million (Table A 4.2).
Sensitivity Analysis of Financial and Economic Rates of Return
4.16          The sensitivity analysis carried out measures the impact of project variables which are
subject to uncertainty. These variables include the enterprises' sales volumes (physical) and sales prices,
project costs, production delays, surrender requirements for foreign exchange, reduction in seeding rates,
increases in crop yields, and increases in border prices. The adopted methodology for the sensitivity
analyses simulates percentage reductions and increases from these variables' base levels and measure the
effects of these changes on the financial rates of return of each seed plant and on the economic rate of
return of the project. A parameter of 15% return is used as the minimum acceptable rate of return for
project financial and economic results.
4.17          Financial Analysis. The level of sales and sales prices in each plant's financial analysis
were varied to simulate revenues below those forecast in the base scenarios. All quantities of production
and sales (including exports) and all output prices were reduced by the same rates from the levels they
take on in the project's base scenario. Sugarbeet seed output and sales prices could each fall by 11%
before this threshold parameter is reached; the comparable decreases for the maize seed and sunflower
seed enterprises are 12 and 8%, respectively.



78                                                        Ukraine Seed Development Project
4.18          A scenario of cost overruns on investments in plant and equipment and in recurrent costs
was examined. Its results show that cost overruns can reach between 14-21 % for the sugarbeet seed,
maize seed, and sunflower seed enterprises before the FRRs in these activities fall to the threshold 15%
level. A scenario designed to measure the impact of delaying plant operation by one year after making
initial investments in the plants and equipment was also examined. The results reveal that an additional
year of start-up time does not reduce the enterprises' FRRs to levels below the threshold 15% level.
Finally, the removal of the foreign exchange surrender policy, that is, allowing all the income from
export sales to be changed into domestic currency at the commercial rate, would improve the enterprises'
FRRs, by between 1-3%.
4.19          All the sensitivity analyses reveal that the financial results of the three seed enterprises
are robust with regard to reductions in receipts of 8-12%, cost overruns of 14-21%, and delays of up
to a year in bringing the plants on line.
4.20          Economic Analysis. The sensitivity analysis of the economic returns of the project
examines how the ERR responds to changes in assumptions about the benefits stream. The key variables
affecting the benefits stream are the reduction in seeding rates, the increase in yields, and the level of
maize, sugarbeet and sunflower prices. These three variables are varied together by the same percentage
decrease.
4.21          The sensitivity analysis of the ERR reveals that a threshold of 15% rate of return is still
attained when the key variables tested are reduced from their base values by 9% each. Recalling that the
base values for the reduction in seeding rates and increase in crop yields were conservatively set, their
reduction by 9% represents an even more conservative estimate of project benefits. Moreover, the
simultaneous reduction in yield increases and output prices (combined with seeding rates that fall less
rapidly) represents more than a 20% reduction in the value of incremental output arising under the
project. When these key variables are increased from base levels by 9% each, the ERR would rise to
23%.



Annex 4                                                                              79
Table A4.1: Summary of Financial and Economic Rates of Return
Sugarbeet         Maize         Sunflower
Financial Analysis
Base Level of FRR is:                     29%              25%             25%
For FRR to Fall to 15%, Sales Volumes      11%             12%              8%
and Prices Must Fall each by:
For FRR to Fall to 15%, Cost Overrun       15%             21%              14%
must be:
When Delay First Sales by 1 Year, then    23%              20%             20%
FRR Drops to:
Without Foreign Exchange Surrender,       32%              28%             26%
FRR Rises to:
Economic Analysis                       All Hybrid Seed Production Taken as a Whole
Base Level ERR is:                                         19%
For ERR to = 15%, Yield Increases,
Producer Prices, and Reductions in                         9%
Seeding Rates Must Fall each by:



Table A4.2: Economic Analysis
P(O*Xa                        TON PEI HA                  KILOGRAMS PER HA            3 PER TON         HECTARES           TONSIHA          TONS                 I I                                       *
__C_ C.u.n                                        t Pd e  Ct.T  Pro  d  Com y  Added Hem*2        Inc1, rli       S"d            InememnUl Vaw           Inc,em    Vie         Toat
Yild          Ybld            Seedng Rae    Seeing Rate    PNC               WI hpWo.od Seed      Ybid           Plodccdon       F,o  Loe.w Seedn Fg F. lgh  Ybkd               her  Vk
Cwo r"nVWd"                    2.84          b.OO#              Zs              -1                                 200                           S0OO
YL                                             2.84                             25             4C                    0            0.00           5000                     s0                    10             $0
Veer 2                                         2.8                              24             s        6         8333            0.00           5000                     *0                    *0             *0
r,. 3                                          2.98              _             23              so                17391            0.14           6000               $148.174             $1.704,000    *1.8C2,174
Y    4                                         3.1 3                            22             70                27273            0.29           6000               556.736             $4,075.400    $4.631,136
Y_____________    ___________   ___________   ___________  ___3.29             21             8                 38095            0.45           6000  _1.364.282 _                      $7,162.480    *8,626,762
a ~16                                          34__  3.4S                       20             90                60000            0.61           5000              $2.764.170           111,0l6.680   113.770.549 .
________________              22.2           3.00%            3.25           40.08               I                 222                            722
Y__1  _  22.2                  3.2S                                   0             0.0            722                     s0                    $0            s0
rw 2                                  __.  _   22                             3.17                                5 6463           0.0             88                     $0                    $0             *0
low 3                _              _          22.9                           309_ 3S14                          11201             0.7            945                0104.438            02.711.132    *t816.571
ye. 4                _                         236                            3.02 1_                            17236             1.4           1000                372.84S6            46.656.902    07.028.747
VW* S                  _      _                24. 3                          2.94            s1                 23592             2.1           114S               $874.155            $13.064.307   $13.928.4e2
rr6 - -                                      25.0                 _         2.86             20                30294             2.8           1145              $1.888.144           $19.832.667   $21.320.812
Sund HrbAt             _       1.27             2#               5            4.1 I                                390                          19S0
Y  1   .   _ __1.27                           S                     _O _                         O            l9S 0 00  1950           s0                    so             0_
Yew I                                          1.27                            4.9            10_                 7959              0            2540                     00                    10            10
Yw 3                                           1.30                            4.8            124                16250           0.03            2930                051.010            $2.830.326     $2.881.342
Y_r 4                                          1 .32     _                     4.7            142               248S4            0.0            3420               $181.879             07.688.433    07.870.312
Yew 6                                          1.35                            4.6            161               33913            0.08            3910               0424.956           S16.075,452   016.600.408
Yew 9-lS                                       1.37                            4.So _ _                         43333            0.10            3910               0816.573           $22.670,772   023.487.345
TOTAL ECONO01IC COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                         19.09% ECONOMIC BENEFITS FROM F1 IHY9RIDS ALONE      NPV            RR CALCULATION
_ SUGAR          CORN            SUNFLOWER    GERMPLASM         REGULATORY    TA AT FIRMS           TOTAL           NPV             TOTAL                  NPV                   BALANCE                      19.09%
TOTAL
P,.-Opnlon Yew          16.916.206     011.784.680 _    4.201.000      12.096.100      12,342.200            *681.000     026.339.086     126,381,651                     10           *79.309.957   052.926.306          ($26.339.0661
vee 1                     9016.513        *132.920             *0        $204,000             $0 I           $228.0 l.lS1153,433                                          $0                                                 ,S11.153.433)
rew 2                     $931.676        *135.000             *0        *204.000             *0                   *0  _ 1.270.075                                        *0                  (_                             1 .270.6751
Yw 3                    *1.010.26        $137.220             $0              _0       _      0                   *0 _   1,147.745                               $7.549.006                                                *6.401.341
Yew 4                   01.0S.713         *139.000             00              $0             $0                   $0 _1.237.713 _19.530.195                                                                               $18.292.483
Ye 6                    $1.125,688       0$139.000             to*0            $0              0                    0      01.264.688                            $37.956.631    _                                           36.690.944
Ye,       _             $1 ,125,688       1 39,000             *0              $0             $0                   *0      $1.2U.688                             *58.579.006                                               867.314.318
Yw7                     $ 1,126,6687      *139,000             so              *0             $0                   so      S 1.204.698                           $68.579.006                                               657,314.318
Yee, 8                  $1 ,1 25,e8       $139,000             *0  _0                         $0                   *0      $1.264.688                            *C8.S79.006                                              5*7.314.318
Yew S                _ 1,125,688          II39,0DO             *0              00_            $0                  e0    $1.264688                                *58.579.006  _67.314.318
o



ANNEX 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO REVIEW
THE AGRICULTURE RESEARCH SYSTEM
Background
The agricultural research system in Ukraine still retains many of the organizational and structural
features of the FSU system. Reorganized in 1990 and administered by the newly established Ukrainian
Academy of Agricultural Sciences (UAAS), the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences (UAS), the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MOAF), and the Ministry of Forestry (MOFR), it is entirely public. The
agricultural research system is not well integrated in the system of higher agricultural education, and its
international isolation is only slowly diminishing. In terms of physical facilities and staff employed, it is
probably oversized and unsustainable, especially under current fiscal circumstances. It focuses heavily
on basic research and on biological and technical problems, areas in which it has achieved considerable
success. Research efforts in economic, financial, organization, and managerial aspects of agriculture have
been less intensive and effective and need to be strengthened and adjusted to the needs of a pluralistic
enterprise structure. Most importantly, the national research system is currently faced with a profound
financial crisis resulting from the country's economic and fiscal difficulties, which calls for short-term
remedial actions and reforms if collapse is to be avoided.
Objectives
The objective of the Agricultural Research Review is to prepare a proposal for rationalizing the
national agricultural research system to enable it to respond efficiently and effectively to the development
needs of and agreed priorities for the agriculture sector. This would include the following:
(a)    defining a research policy and strategy in terms of the research system's goals,
objectives, and priorities; defining organization and management; defining private and
public sector responsibilities; defining size and financing, particularly of the public sector
research; and establishing research evaluation criteria;
(b)   identifying a short- and medium-term reform program for adjusting the structure of the
national agricultural research system and its research programs to the short- and medium-
term needs of the sector; and
(c)    elaborating a detailed plan for implementing this short- and medium-term  reform
program.
Scope and Structure of the Review
The review would include both basic and applied research and would cover the technical,
institutional, economic, and social aspects of the crop, livestock, forestry, and fishery subsectors. It
would have five main components:



82                                                        Ukraine Seed Development Project
(a)    Analysis of the existing agricultural research system;
(i)    organizational structure;
(ii)   financing;
(iii)  inventory of existing research facilities, and programs or projects and employed
human resources;
(iv)   prioritization, planning, and coordination procedures;
(v)    management of human, physical, and financial resources;
(vi)   dissemination of research results;
(vii)   monitoring and evaluation of research process and results; and
(viii)  linkages with other domestic and international research and education systems.
(b)    Past performance of the agricultural research system measured against former objectives
and its capacity to meet the future needs of agriculture;
(c)    Definition of a policy and strategy for the national agricultural research system,
considering the following;
(i)    performance of the existing system;
(ii)   agriculture's agreed economic, social, and environmental role;
(iii)  the ongoing technical, economic, financial, and organizational transformation of
Ukrainian agriculture; and
(iv)   the need for responsiveness to changing research needs, accountability, internal
efficiency, effectiveness, and reduced fiscal dependency.
(d)    Elaboration of a program for restructuring the existing research system and identification
of short- and medium-term research priorities;
(e)    Preparation of a detailed "plan of operation" for restructuring the research system and
for implementing the identified short- and medium-term research program;
Implementation Arrangements
The responsibility for the review would be with the UAAS. The UAAS would be assisted by a
team of suitably qualified internationally recruited consultants. The team leader of this group of
consultants would visit Ukraine to prepare for the pertinent Ukrainian authorities a work program and
detailed Terms of Reference, including a plan for the organization and implementation of the review. It
is suggested that the detailed Terms of Reference would be cleared by a high-level steering committee
to be established for overseeing and guiding the review; this committee would also be responsible for
approval of the recommendations emerging from the review. This group should consist of a representative
each from the UAAS, the UAS, the MOAF, the MOFR, the State Committee for Science and
Technology, and the principal agricultural universities, and should include the leader of the group of
foreign consultants assisting Ukraine in the review. Special working groups would have to be established
to cover the various topics under review. The groups should discuss their findings, before presenting
them to the steering commnittee, in a workshop which would include a wider audience of related



Annex 5                                                                            83
institutions and research clients, in order to obtain as broad a consensus as possible on the conclusions
and recommendations.
Upon acceptance of the recommendations of the working groups by the steering committee, the
latter would charge a drafting committee headed by the leader of the consultants' team with the
production of a report and would submit it to the Cabinet of Ministers for consideration and approval.
The Bank would be given an opportunity to conmment on the document.
The review would be expected to start in mid 1995 and be completed before early 1996.



84                                                      Ukraine Seed Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR FOREIGN TRAING OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENTISTS
UNDER THE GERMPLASM MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Training in a reputable Western institution (research institute, agricultural university, or
seed development company) would be provided under the project for key scientific personnel of the
sugarbeet, sunflower, and maize germplasm development program of the Sugarbeet Research Institute
in Kiev, Oilseeds Research Institute in Zaporizhzhia, and Plant Breeding and Genetics Research Institute
in Odesa. It is proposed that the program leader (or his deputy) of the germplasm development program
of each of the research institutes would undergo training for about one month, while the chief breeder
and the chief seed production agronomist (or those second in command to them) would receive training
for about eight and three months, respectively. In the case of the breeders, the objective is to allow the
selected candidates to train over a full cropping season, starting with preparation of field works, crossing
and isolation techniques, observations, screenings, and recordings during the whole vegetation period,
as well as harvesting and evaluation of the genetic materials. In the case of the seed production
agronomist, it would be important for him to be exposed to high-quality harvesting (low loss, low
damage), drying, and other post-harvest handling of the crop. Certain circumstances (such as lack of
kmowledge of a foreign language, advanced age, and health conditions) might prevent some of the
institute's personnel from participating in foreign training. In such a case, the director of the research
institute, together with the program leader and the chief of the PMU, would decide on another suitable
scientist of the program whose training would guarantee the most benefits to the program. Implementation
of the training program would be administered by the PMU.
Terms of Reference
r4) Germplasm Development Program Leader
Duration: About one month.
Formal Qualification: Graduate or postgraduate degree in agriculture or related sciences.
Experience: At least eight years' experience in germplasm development and maintenance in a leading
position.
Language Skills: Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge of either
English, French, or German.
Scope of Training:
Essential: Organization and management of a modem germplasm  development program;
familiarity with computerized planning, programming, record keeping, and analyses of breeding
work; and familiarity with international requirements for DUS and VCU testing.



Annex 5                                                                                  85
Preferable: Familiarity with latest advances in genetics, genetic engineering, biotechnology,
Western concepts of seed laws, plant breeders rights, copyrights, and royalties; and familiarity
with international institutions intervening in seed development such as UPOV, OECD, ISTA.
(fi) Chief Breeder
Duration: About eight months.
Formal Qualification: Graduate or postgraduate degree in agriculture or related sciences.
Experience: At least five years' experience in germplasm development and maintenance.
Language Skills: Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge of either
English, French, or German.
Scope of Training:
Essential: Overall organization of an effective breeding program, familiarity with latest advances
in genetics, genetic engineering, biotechnology, acquisition and maintenance of genetic materials
(gene bank management), plant physiology, biochemistry, phytopathology and breeding for
immunity, plant breeders rights, copyrights, patents, royalties, testing for DUS and VCU, and
variety testing systems and registration.
Preferable: Update on biometrics, most advanced experimental design and technique, familiarity
with modem precision plot machinery.
(iii) Chief Seed Agronomist
Duration: About three months.
Formal Qualification: Graduate or postgraduate degree in agriculture or related sciences
Experience: At least five years' experience in production of breeders and foundation seed.
Language Skills: Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge of either
English, French, or Gernan.
Scope of Training:
Essential: organization and management of small and large plot seed production; thorough
familiarity with modern precision plot machinery, as well as with machines for larger-scale field
production of foundation seed; thorough familiarity with proper seed harvesting, post-harvest
handling, storage and packaging, marketing, variety registration, seed quality control systems and
methods, and Western seed legislation.
Preferable: Familiarity with latest advances in genetics, genetic engineering, biotechnology,
acquisition and maintenance of genetic materials, plant breeders rights, copyrights, patents,
royalties, testing for DUS and VCU, update on biometrics, and most advanced experimental
design and technique.



86                                                      Ukraine Seed Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TRAINING IN ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
OF OFFICIAL SEED TRIALS
The objective of this training would be to develop abilities for the design of trial
protocols, and to improve the understanding for efficiently and effectively managing national trial
systems.
Duration:           21 days each for 3 people.
Location:           Suitable European agricultural or botanical institutes.
Responsibilities:   To study and understand organization, management costing, and protocols for
trial systems for relevant crops like cereals pulses, maize, sugarbeet, potatoes,
and grasses.
Qualifications:     Degree in an appropriate subject.
Experience:         Minimum of five years working in the seed trial system.
Active and passive understanding of English, French, or German.



Annex 5                                                                              87
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO REVIEW
THE NATIONAL SEED LEGISLATION
The objective of the technical assistance would be to review the existing seed legislation (Seed
Law and Plant Variety Protection Law), to determine shortcomings and issues, to present and discuss
these issues in seminars with the relevant public and private Ukrainian partners, and to prepare
proposals for the indicated modification in the seed legislation.
Duration:            20 days.
Responsible to:      Minister of Agriculture in close working relationship with the Patent
Bureau, the UAAS, the State Committee for Testing and Protection of Plant
Varieties, and seed industry representatives.
Responsibilities:    In cooperation with the parties who have a vested interest (the Ministry of
Agriculture, the seed trade, the UAAS, and the seed industry) to objectively
analyze and evaluate the current legislation, identify issues and remedies,
coordinate interpretation, and recommend a course of action and timetable
for the changes in the law or for amendments.
Qualifications:      University degree in an appropriate subject, most likely law.
Required Professional
Experience:           A wide international experience with Seed Laws and Plant Variety Rights
Law.
Minimum of five years working in the agricultural seeds industry in a
position where the interpretation of seed legislation was a regular
occurrence.
Understanding in general of how laws are assembled and how they work on
a day-to-day basis. Drafting skills to form the acts and introducing
regulations to interpret them are essential.
Ability to work constructively with others, and an ability to plan, manage,
and influence people.
Evolution of duties:    Following the review of existing laws and a discussion of their
shortcomings, the expert(s) would: lead and direct the team redrafting the
seed law, including amendments to the current legislation.



88                                                       Ukraine Seed Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO REVIEW
THE PLANT VARIETY TEsTING SYSTEM
Background
The responsibility for plant variety testing in Ukraine rests with the State Commission for
Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties (SCTPPV) which reports to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food (MOAF). In addition to determining, on some 200 trial locations, the characteristics of plant
varieties and their value for cultivation, the SCTPPV also provides extension trials and farms some
18,000 hectares of agricultural land. Its investment needs and operating costs are currently financed
by budgetary allocations from the Government, testing fees paid by plant breeders, and income from
its farming operations.
There are clear indications that the system, as currently organized, does not meet its objective
in a cost-effective way. The principal issues include (a) the scope of SCTPPV's activities, especially
the engagement in extension trials and in its extensive farming operations; (b) the effectiveness and
efficiency of carrying out its core responsibility for variety testing, especially the need and
justification for the large number of trial locations for VCU and DUS testing; (c) the system's heavy
dependence on scarce public funding and possible revenues from its farming operations; and, (d) the
lack of a transparent accounting system as a management tool for ensuring efficiency and cost
effectiveness in carrying out SCTPPV's core responsibilities.
Objectives
The objectives of the Review are to:
(a) analyze the plant variety trial and testing system as carried out by SCTPPV, especially the
rationale for the range of its activities, the efficiency and effectiveness of the variety trial
system, its current financing and the financial management of SCTPPV; and,
(b) propose improvements in the current system which would rationalize the range of
activities, enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the trial system and increase the
system's self-financing capacity through user fee/cost recovery arrangements.
Scope and Structure of the Review
The Review would include these elements:
(a) Analysis of the current activities of the SCTPPV;
(i) responsibilities and scope of activities;
(ii) organizational structure and management;
(iii) inventory of available facilities and human resources;



Annex 5                                                                               89
(iv) operational cost and financing; and,
(v) current procedures for VCU and DUS testing regarding data collection, trial
locations, technical testing methods, statistical analysis and decisions on standards.
(b) Performance assessment of the plant variety testing system and identification of
problems/areas regarding (a) i-v; and,
(c) Preparation of specific recommendations for resolving the issues identified under (b)
above and ensuring an efficient and effective system of national trials and listing. These
recommendations would have to address, inter alia:
*   the need and justification for carrying out extension trials within the SCTPPV;
*   the minimum numbers of trial locations required for achieving reliable and
repeatable data for national listing (VCU) of the required range of species;
*   identification of suitable DUS testing stations;
*   the need for reducing the system's dependency on public funding through
introduction of user fees within a given time horizon; and,
*   the need for improvements in financial management of the system.
Implementation Arrangements
T'he responsibility for the Review would be with the Deputy Minister of Agriculture
responsible for crop production. The Review would be carried out by two consultants who would be
assisted by the SCTPPV. Prior to arrival of the consultants, SCTPPV would propose a concise report
covering the topics listed under (a) above (analysis of the current activities of SCTPPV). The report
of the consultants and their recommendations would be submitted for review and approval to the
Deputy Prime Minister for the Agro-Industrial Complex. Upon approval by the Deputy Prime
Minister, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and the Chairman of the SCTPPV would prepare and
submit a specific time-bound plan for implementing the agreed recommendations. The Bank would be
given an opportunity to comment on the consultant's report and on the implementation plan before
they are finalized.
The Seed Development Project would finance a total of 40 working days for carrying out this
review. The two consultants would be required to have university degrees in agriculture or
agricultural botany and a minimum of ten years experience in managing and/or operating an official
national variety trial system. They would have to have jointly sufficient practical experience with
DUS/VCU work and in the organization and management of plant variety trials to effectively carry
out the technical, administrative, managerial and financial aspects of the assignment.



90                                                      Ukraine Seed Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNICAL AssIsTANcE TO SUPPORT
THE INTRODUCTION OF DUS TsING
AND SEED CERTCATION
The objective of this technical assistance would be to support the introduction of morphological
techniques for variety identification and integrate these with the seed certification system in order to
reduce excessive dependence on electrophoresis.
Duration:             30 days.
Responsible to:       Ministry of Agriculture and State Commission for Testing and Protection of
Varieties.
Responsibilities:    The consultant would initially meet with the DUS team of the State
Commission and later with the seed certification branch to discuss:
(a)  the introduction of UPOV guidelines;
(b)  the development of additional morphological testing as required; and
(c)  the development of a system which allows the integration of DUS
testing and variety verification at the Seed Certification level, thus
avoiding excessive dependence on expensive electrophoresis.
Subsequently, the consultant would identify and develop suitable
morphological techniques for plant variety discrimination consistent with
UPOV guidelines and ensure that seed certification is integrated into the
DUS testing system and standards.
Both these groups are available in Kiev. The consultant would be required
to work with the consultant assisting in the introduction of the
electrophoretic equipment.
Qualifications:       University degree in an appropriate science.
Professional Experience:
Essential:            Minimum of five years' experience working with DUS testing.
Preferred:            A good knowledge and understanding of seed certification systems.
Management experience in organizing and integrating national schemes.



Annex 5                                                                                91
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECNICAL ASSISTANCE IN THE OPERATION
OF ELECTROPHORETIC EQUIPMENT
The objective of this technical assistance is to introduce and train local staff in the operation and
interpretation of data from the electrophoretic equipment provided under the project for variety
identification and purity testing.
Duration:             14 days.
Responsible to:       The Chief State Seed Inspector.
Responsibilities:     In cooperation with the selected local laboratory staff to introduce and train
the local staff in the use of, and interpretation of data from, modern
electrophoresis equipment; and to integrate this training with the DUS group
of the Official Variety Trials.
Qualifications:       A university degree in a suitable science.
Professional experience:
Essential:            A minimum of five years' hands-on experience using electrophoresis to
discriminate between varieties.
Preferred:            Experience in national variety testing laboratory.



92                                                      Ukraine Seed Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE INTEGRATION
OF DUS TESTG AND SEED CERTIFICATION
The objective of this technical assistance is to introduce morphological techniques for variety
identification and integrate these with the seed certification system such that it does not require excessive
dependence on electrophoresis.
Duration:             20 days.
Responsible to:       Ministry of Agriculture (Seed Certification Branch) and State Committee for
Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties.
Responsibilitfes:    Integration of the DUS testing system with the Seed Certification System.
The expert would be required to work with the expert introducing the
electrophoresis expertise into the Seed Certification Branch.
Qualifications:       Minimum of five years' working experience in DUS testing; good
knowledge and understanding of seed certification; and management
experience in organizing and integrating national systems.



Annex 5                                                                                93
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE IN CROP INSPECTIONS
The objective of this Technical Assistance is to ensure that Ukrainian seed inspectors and
producers are fully conversant with OECD regulations and that they demonstrably inspect crops to the
appropriate standard.
Duration:             7 days.
Responsible to:       Chief State Seed Inspector.
Responsibilities:     In cooperation with local inspectors, to run one or several seminars in the
classroom and the field to ensure that local inspectors understand and can
operate in accordance with and achieve the required standard by the OECD
seed production schemes, and to ensure that those on the course understand
sufficiently well to be able to instruct others.
Qualifications:       A university degree in a suitable plant based science (agriculture,
agricultural botany).
Professional experience:
Essential:            A minimum of five years' experience in seed production.
In-depth knowledge of the OECD seed production schemes for the range of
crops grown in Ukraine.



94                                                      Ukraine Seed Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR FOREIGN TRAIn NG OF STAFF IN SEED PRODUCTION COMPANIES
Training in reputable Western organizations (seed production companies, university seminars, or
special training programs) would be provided under the proposed project for the key personnel of the
newly-established seed companies (sugarbeet, maize, and sunflower seed production companies). It is
proposed that the general director and the vice director of each of the new companies would undergo
training for about two months while the marketing manager, the chief accountant and the quality control
manager would receive training for about one month. Language capability (very good active and
reasonably good passive knowledge of one of the major foreign languages) is of utmost importance for
the success of this training. If any one of the designated individuals does not have this language
capability, the shareholders of the new companies shall submit proposals to the Project Management Unit
(PMU) for training alternates. However, training should be restricted to those individuals who are
designated to assume management responsibilities in the new companies.
Implementation of the training program should be coordinated by the PMU.
Terms of Reference
(i) General Director
Duration:            2 months.
Formal Qualification:   Graduate or postgraduate degree in agronomy or business or related science.
Experience:           At least 10 years' experience in general management, preferably general
management of seed production operations, of which 5 years should be in a
leading position.
Language Skills:      Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge
of one of the major foreign languages, preferably English, French, or
German.
Scope of Training:    Essential: Organization and management of a modern seed production
operation; reporting requirements to shareholders and board of directors in
Western corporations; personnel management techniques; familiarization
with computerized planning and record keeping; familiarization with rules
and regulations for the international seed trade and with the procedures and
regulations of international institutions related to seed production and plant
variety development (OECD, ISTA, UPOV).
Desirable: Understanding of financing and pricing policies in a highly
inflationary environment, Western marketing concepts, and familiarization
with seed production techniques.



Annex 5                                                                                  95
(ii) Vice Director
Duration:             2 months.
Formal Qualification:   Graduate or postgraduate degree in agronomy or engineering or a related
science.
Experience:           At least five years' experience in managing seed production operations,
preferably with direct responsibility for seed production in the field and
conditioning of seeds in the plant. Organizational and management skills are
more important than technical skills.
Language Skills:      Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge
of one of the major foreign languages, preferably English, German, or
French.
Scope of Training:    Essential: Familiarization with the latest technology of seed production in
the field of the respective crop; familiarization with the latest technology for
conditioning such seeds and application of the appropriate seed protectants;
management of seed production staff; environmental concerns regarding
seed conditioning operations; international rules and regulations concerning
seed quality; familiarization with Western seed production contracting
procedures; familiarization with Western seed quality standards, such as
those of OECD and ISTA.
Desirable: Understanding of computerized planning, forecasting, and
operations control; familiarization with seed quality control procedures in
the field and in the plant.
(iii) Chief Accountant
Duration:              1 month.
Formal Qualification:   Graduate or postgraduate degree in accounting or finance or related science.
Experience:            At least 10 years in general accounting and econornic analysis, of which 5
years should be in a leading position.
Language Skills:       Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge
in one of the major foreign languages, preferably English, French, or
German.
Scope of Training:     Essential: Sound understanding of computerized planning and budgeting
procedures and Western systemns of corporate reporting; familiarization with
preparation of annual plans, forecasts, investment plans, medium-term
strategic plans, and salary and bonus schemes; understanding of pricing and
cost accounting policies in highly inflationary economies; familiarization
with the intricacies of cost accounting for the seasonal seed industry.



96                                                        Ukraine Seed Development Project
Desirable: Familiarization with issues of seed quality; understanding of
Western systems of salary and bonus structures; familiarization with key
financial management parameters such as debt-equity and current ratio.
(iv) Marketing Manager
Duration:              I month.
Formal Qualification:   Graduate degree in marketing or international sales or equivalent on-the-job
experience in a company with international operations.
Experience:           At least five years of experience in marketing of agricultural products,
preferably seeds.
Language Skills:       Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge
of one of the major foreign world languages, preferably English, German,
or French.
Scope of Training:     Essential: Familiarization with international strategies for market
development; familiarization with international licensing arrangements,
distributor agreements, and contracts for representation; understanding of
pricing and seed delivery policies in a highly inflationary environment.
Desirable: Understanding of international seed quality standards;
understanding of international rules and regulations for the trade with seeds.
(v) Qualtty Control Manager
Duration:              I month.
Formal Qualification:   Graduate degree in seeds analysis; five years of work in a supervisory
position in quality control.
Experience:            At least five years of managing the activities of a quality control laboratory;
experience in supervising the quality of the seed production in the field is
desirable.
Language Skills:       Essential to have very good passive and reasonably good active knowledge
of one of the major foreign languages, preferably English, German, or
French.
Scope of Training:     Essential: Sound understanding of international procedures for analyzing
seeds for internal and external quality and vigor; understanding of Western
management and procedures to control seed quality in the field and in the
laboratory; familiarization with policies pursued by international seed testing
agencies (OECD and ISTA).



Annex 5                                                                                        97
Desirable: Familiarization with field inspection procedures for diseases;
familiarization with new techniques (isozyme analysis) to control genetic
purity.



98                                                      Ukraine Seed Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO
THE SEED PRODUCTION COMPANIES
Technical assistance by qualified individuals would be provided under the proposed project to
the key personnel of the newly established seed companies. It is proposed that technical assistance be
provided in general management, financial management, seed plant mnanagement, and seed quality control.
This technical assistance would re-enforce the knowledge which the responsible individuals acquired in
the training provided under this project and would periodically review the application of policies,
procedures and management techniques to which these individuals were introduced during the training.
The individuals providing the technical assistance will also check the progress made in the companies and
will advise to remedy problems that could prevent the companies from accomplishing their financial and
profitability objectives.
The technical assistance would be coordinated by the PIU.
Terms of Reference
(i) General Management
Duration:           3 visits of 10 days each during the first year and 2 visits of 10 days each
during the second year of operation.
Formal Qualification: Graduate or postgraduate degree in agriculture or business
or a related science.
Experience:         General management experience in a small to medium size seed company of
which at least 5 years as the responsible manager. Management experience of
subsidiaries of larger corporations would suffice.
Language Skills:Working knowledge of the Russian or Ukrainian language would be desirable but not
essential since the General Manager should be fluent in a major foreign language.
Scope of Assistance:  Essential: personnel management and management policies; corporate
planning, forecasting, and reporting procedures; evaluation of germplasm
sources for the company; review of the regulatory environment; financing and
pricing policies.
Desirable:          establishment of marketing plans and policies; overall organization of seed
production operations; international seed organizations and policies.



Annex 5                                                                                  99
(ii) Seed Plant Management
Duration:            3 visits of 10 days each during the first year and 2 visits of 10 days each
during the second year of the company's operation.
Formal Qualification: Graduate degree in agronomy or engineering or related science.
Experience:          10 years experience in seed plant operations; at least 5 years of overall seed
production responsibility.
Language Skills:     Working knowledge of the Russian or Ukrainian language would be desirable
it is not essential.
Scope of Assistance:  Essential: budgeting and planning of operations; contracting for seed
production; personnel management; general organization of seed plant
operations; scheduling of planting and harvesting activity; supervising field
production; operating with part-time labor.
Desirable: quality control standards and policies; sourcing of production
inputs; review of the regulatory environment.
(iii) Financial Management
Duration:            3 visits of 10 days each during the first year and 2 visits of 10 days each
during the second year of the company's operation.
Formal Qualification: Graduate degree in finance or accounting or related science.
Experience:          At least 10 years experience in controlling or financial management, of which
at least 5 years in a leading position.
Language Skills:     Working knowledge of the Russian or Ukrainian language would be desirable
but not essential.
Scope of Assistance:  Essential: preparation of P&L statements and balance sheets;
preparing annual operating plans, budgets, investment plans, and cash flows;
famniliarization with variable and fixed cost concepts; financing and pricing
policies; protecting currency exposure.
Desirable: personnel policies; insurance of company property; inventory
control procedures.
(iv) Oualitv Management



100                                                     Ukraine Seed Development Project
Duration:           2 visits of 10 days each during the first year and 2 visits of 10 days each
during the second year of the company's operation.
Formal Qualification: Graduate degree in seed technology or similar science.
Experience:         At least 5 years in a leading position for the seed quality assurance program of
a company.
Language Skills:    Working knowledge of the Russian or Ukrainian language would be desirable
but is not essential.
Scope of Assistance:  Essential: implementing an integrated quality assurance system; scheduling
field inspections, sampling procedures and laboratory operations; international
seed quality standards and testing procedures; maintining seed quality in seed
plant operations.
Desirable: understanding the effects of different seed treatments;
understanding disease problems in the field; personnel management.



Annex 5                                                                             101
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TECHCAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
The Project Management Unit (PMU) would assist the Government and the implementing entities
in carrying out their responsibilities under the project as defined in the Loan Agreement between Ukraine
and the World Bank.
The PMU would be physically located in the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences
(UAAS), which would provide the office space needed. The necessary office equipment and operating
costs would be funded under the project in accordance with the respective provision of Annex 3 in the
Staff Appraisal Report. The staff of the PMU will include a Director/Project Manager with overall
responsibility for the operation of the PMU; an Operational Assistant/Accountant; and a Secretary with
good English language skills. The Unit would also be supported by a long-term consultant for a 15 month
period to assist in the management of this internationally financed project during the first half of its
implementation period and by 30 days of consultancies for hiring special expertise not available within
the PMU.
The PMU would report to the Project Steering Committee (PSC) which would comprise a Deputy
Minister of Finance as chairman, representatives of the MOAF, UAAS, BOU, UkrExImBank, and a
representative from the Board of Diretors of each of the thre seed enterprises. The PSC would have
principal responsibility for the project. It would delegate, at it's discretion, part of these responsibilities
to the PMU.
The specific responsibilities of the PMU would include:
(a)   liaising between the implementing entities, Bank Ukraina, the Government and the Bank;
(b)    monitoring project implementation and compliance with the stipulations of the Loan Agreement
between Ukraine and the Bank in general,
(c)    ensuring compliance with the reporting requirements on i) progress in implementing the various
project components, ii) performance of the benefiting entities, iii) audits, and iv) impact of the
project's investments;
(d)    coordinating and assisting the implementing entities in carrying out the project's technical
assistance and training program;
(e)    assisting the implementing entities in procurement and in the preparation of bid evaluations and
award proposals for approval by the PSC;
(f)    determining the eligibility of goods and services for Bank loan or grant financing, assisting the
implementing entities in preparing disbursement requests and/or withdrawal applications, and
coordinating the submission of disbursement requests/withdrawal application to the PSC for
approval and to the Bank or Special Account for payment;



102                                                    Ukraine Seed Development Project
(g)    administering the project's Special Account;
(h)    carrying out the performance review of the project 12 months after project effectiveness and the
preparation of Project Completion Report after the project investments have been completed; and,
(i)    discharging any responsibilities which the PSC may delegate to the PMU.
The PMU will also be responsible for keeping detailed accounts of its own expenditures which
will be audited annually by an external auditor.



Annex 5                                                                             103
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE EXECUTIVE ADVISOR TO THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
The function of the Executive Advisor to the Project Management Unit (PMU) would be to support
the PMU in its daily operation: specifically, to assist in the establishment of the project's monitoring,
financial accounting and progress reporting systems, to ensure an efficient procurement process, and to
facilitate disbursements.
Duration:           15 months
Responsible to:     the Chairman of the Project Steering Committee, through the PMU Manager.
Responsibilities:   assisting the PMU to:
- prepare consolidated semi-annual progress reports for the project for submission to PSC and
the Bank;
- prepare the Project's Performance Review 12 months after Loan Effectiveness;
- enable implementing entities to establish suitable progress and financial reporting systems;
- guide the implementing entities in executing their procurement activities, specifically the
evaluation of bids, preparation of award proposals, and supervision of contractors/suppliers;
- establish an efficient system of preparing disbursement requests, Statements of Expenditures,
and Special Account management;
- plan and manage the project's technical assistance and training program; and,
The Executive Advisor would also execute any other project-related tasks that the Director or the
PSC may from time to time entrust to the Executive Advisor.
Qualifications:
- suitable degree in administration, management, accounting or engineering;
- minimum of 5 years of experience in management and implementation of internationally
financed investment projects;
- solid experience in contract management and international civil works and goods procurement;
- good knowledge of disbursement practices used by international financial institutions;
- Very good active and passive English language skills and - highly desirable - working
knowledge of Russian or Ukrainian.



ANNEX 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN'
ANNEX 6: Project Implementation Plan
Activity                  Start  |T Completion                Responsibility
Proiect Processing
Completion APR                                   Oct. 94      Bank
Negotiations                                     Jan. 95      Bank/Borrower
Board Approval                                   May 95       Bank
Effectiveness                                    Aug. 95      Bank/Borrower
Pre-Proiect Actions
Identification of members of     Feb. 95         May 95       Borrower/Bank
(PSC)
Selection of Project Manager     Feb. 95         May 95       PSC/Bank
Preparation of bidding           Sept. 94        May 95       UAAS with trust funded
documents for procurement of                                  consultant provided by Bank
goods and turnkey contracts
Publication of General            Oct. 94        Nov. 94      UAAS/Bank
Procurement Notice
Invitation for bids for turnkey  May 95          Aug. 95      UAAS, participating enterprises,
contracts (Ist stage)                                         Bank
Identification of funding TA     Sept. 94        May 95       UAAS/Bank
Identification of office and staff    March 95   May 95       UAAS/MOAF
for PMU
Preparation of company            Feb. 94       March 95      Participating Enterprises
charters
Registration of new seed         Dec. 94        March 95      Participating Enterprises
enterprises
Preparation of feasibility       Sept. 94       March 95      Participating Enterprises
studies for seed enterprises
Preparation of short list for TA  March 95       May 95       UAAS/MOAF
to PMU
Preparation of contract for TA   April 95        June 95      UAAS/Bank
to PMU
'Elements of implementation not specifically referred to in this Annex are covered in the SAR.



Anner 6                                                                                      10S
Project Implementation
Project ManaLiement
Establishment and full staffing  March 95      June 95     PSC and UAAS
of PMU
Recruitment of TA for PMU       March 95       June 95     PMU and UAAS
Performance Review (12          Aug. 96        Sept. 96    PSC, PMU, Bank
month)
Annual Progress Reporting      Aug. 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000    PSC, PMU
Annual Audits                 Aug. 95, 96, 97, 98,99,2000   PSC, Auditor
Implementation Completion                  | March 2001   PSC
Report                       _
Seed Production
Bid evaluation and awards of    Aug. 95        Oct. 95     Seed enterprises and PMU
turnkey contracts
Civil work construction         Sept. 95       June 96     Contractor
Supply of plant equipment       April 96       Feb. 97    Contractor
Trial run of plants             June. 96      March 97    Contractor and seed enterprises
Short listing of TA consultants  June 95       Sept. 95    Seed enterprises and PMU
Contracting of TA consultants    Jan. 96       June 96     Seed enterprises and PMU
Implementation of TA             Oct. 96     March 2000   Seed enterprises and PMU
Identifying training candidate   Oct. 95       Dec. 96     Seed enterprises
Identifying training institution  Jan. 96     March 96    Seed enterprises, PMU
Implementation of training       Apr. 95       Sept. 97    Training institution



106                                                         Ukraine Seed Development Project
Regulatorv Framework
TA:   Shortlist and invitation     July 95          Dec. 95     PMU, MOAF
Contracting                 Jan. 96         May 96       PMU, MOAF
Implementation              July 96         Feb. 99      Consultant
Trng.: Selection of candidates     Oct. 95          Feb. 96     PMU, MOAF
Identif. of Trng. Inst.     Jan. 96         June 96      PMU, MOAF
Training                    Oct. 96         Aug. 97      Trng. Institutes
Laboratory Equipment:
Prep. of bidding docs.      Oct. 94         Sept. 95     PMU, MOAF
Invitation to bid
Bid evaluation/awards       Oct. 95        March 96    PMU, MOAF
Supply                      Aug. 96         Feb. 97      Supplier
Machinery:                                                      PMU, MOAF
Prep. of bidding docs.      Oct. 94         Sept. 95
and invitation to bid
Bid evaluation/awards       Oct. 95        March 97      PMU, MOAF
Supply                      Aug. 96         Feb. 97      Supplier
Germplasm Maintenance
TA:   Short list/invitation        July 95         March 96     PMU, UAAS
Contracting                 Apr. 96         July 96      PMU, UAAS
Implementation              Oct. 96         Aug. 97      Consultants
Trng.: Selection of candidates      July 95         Nov. 95     PMU, UAAS
Ident. of Trng. Inst.       Oct. 95        March 96      PMU, UAAS
Training                    July 96         Nov. 98      Trng. institution
Machinery:
Prep. of bidding docs.      Oct. 94         Oct. 95      PMU, UAAS
and invitation to bid
Bid evaluation/awards       Jan. 95         June 96      PMU, UAAS
Supply                      Nov. 96         Sept. 96     Supplier
Laboratory Equipment:
Prep. of bidding docs.      Apr. 95         Nov. 95      PMU, UAAS
and invitation to bid
Bid evaluation/awards       Jan. 95         May 96       PMU, UAAS
Supply                      Oct. 96         March 96     Supplier



ANNEX 7
PROCUREMEENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE"
Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
Nature of Package                     Total         Method of    Sub-         Award of    Com-
Estimated     Procurement   mission    Contracts    pletion of
Costs         Prep. of      of Bids                 Package
(US$million)  Documents
GOODS
Seed Processing Companies
Equipment, machinery and  civil  11.8         ICB            PY1/2Q    PYI/2Q         PY2/1Q
works for maize plant                          (turnkey)
Equipment, machinery and civil    5.0         ICB            PYl/IQ    PYI/IQ         PYI/3Q
works for sugarbeet plant                      (turnkey)
Equipment, machinery and civil    4.6         ICB            PY1/2Q    PY1/3Q        PY2/2Q
works for sunflower plant                      (turnkey)
Auxiliary agricultural equipment    1.4       ICB            PY1/2Q    PY1/3Q         PY2/1Q
and machinery for maize plant
Auxiliary agricultural equipment    1.1        ICB           PY1/2Q    PY1I/3Q        PY2/1Q
and machinery for sugarbeet plant
Regulatory Agencies
Laboratory equipment and         0.4           IS            PY1/3Q    PY1/4Q         PY2/1Q
materials for SCSQC
Field and lab. equipment for     2.4          ICB            PY2/3Q    PY3/lQ         PY3/3Q
SCSQC
Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences
Laboratory equipment and         1.1           ICB           PYI/2Q    PY1/3Q         PY2/lQ
materials for the maize, sugar-
beet, sunflower and bio-techn.
Field equipment for the maize,   1.5           ICB           PY1/2Q    PYI/3Q         PY2/1Q
sugarbeet and sunflower institutes
Computer Equipment for
3 seed processing companies,     0.2           IS            PY1/2Q    PY1/3Q         PY1/4Q
3 UAAS institutes and SCTPPV
Equipment for Project               0.1           IS            PYI/IQ    PY1I/2Q        PY1/2Q
Management Unit
For Bank Loan funded investments only (net of VAT)






20                                    \          75                                                 10-                                                35'                                              O'
I                                         fJ    _-  /~~~~-                                                                                    6  ."
BELARUS                           (.
r   ~,. ---.\,             t         '   11rJ RUSSIAN   FEDERATION
POLAND                             -,
'   K-1e                Sory                        . ,Cem                                      ;. 
0
1_-~~~Dohbr    tAp                                                                                                                                                                                            /
SLOVAK                 r    0
REPUBLIC               *         KluhOWV,4&kdoek
H-UNGARY                                   /
7    ROMANIA                                                                   Is.'
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                           2            1  k               '  9,
,     ' r At N',E-.^QirllelsllIe\                               w @<  \     'VI                                                                     '2k Bb yr N   \ > \erdionrEs-
SIXARII S[IA' 1 t0 'rcIa                                      /           VJ  ~       K  J.                                                                       Se s>   s-S t        a
Cs Sl  IDit)'t                                                                                                              -   YIC
";E)DIrtq,EC IKSTI,TSAzS   N
I! S1-AK IIP FS(AAI1I4ST1IItI                                 f           K      -,,1A~Ie0,                                                                                              RUSSIAN
13  1I'( l--. 111-10 A "ImFT  /,/TT                                ~     N   () '   Dirio-sky                                     N                                          r        FEDERATION
,.In                     . .......  wSA D>,                                                                                 "'lr  .      '              O      50     15
-   - /.CIAStI G-  11, A.I'S                                                   T,A    O
_ , I  _o                                                                                                                             Ito                     K IL O M E T E RS.J f  D G J rlr a c t S  B U L G A R I A   -  3    M lt E 5
O  'IIl~~~~/IL'/'//M/S A'JA/ 'TiCS  4%  ~       ~         ~        ~        B tA  CK    SEA                                          0      50    I5       50,'I
*.            EL    C           E                                      I      I       I       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I I
41/103                          ~~~~~~~~BULGARIA~                                                                                35r                           MILES












