Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3891 UA
                              Loan Agreement
                        (Seed Development Project)
                                  between
                                  UKRAINE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 28, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3891 UA
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1995, between UKRAINE (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Charter" means the founding statutes, charter,
articles of incorporation and by-laws, or other similar
instrument of a Participating Seed Enterprise, including any
agreement among the founders or shareholders thereof;
    (b)   "Financial Agent" means the Agro-Industrial Bank
"Ukraina", a joint stock commercial bank registered pursuant to
Registration Decision No. 2 of September 27, 1991 of the
Borrower's National Bank, and selected as financial agent of
the Borrower pursuant to the Financial Agency Agreement, or any
other entity which shall have been selected by the Borrower to
act as its financial agent for purposes of on-lending to any
Participating Seed Enterprises under Part A of the Project;
    (c)   "Financial Agency Agreement" means an agreement entered
into by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, and the
Financial Agent for the purposes of Part A of the Project;
    (d)   "MOAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of
the Borrower;
    (e)   "Participating Seed Enterprise" means a Private
Enterprise for the production of seed, selected by the Borrower
for participation in Part A of the Project in accordance with
the criteria set forth in Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 of
this Agreement;
    (f)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in
Section 6.01 (c) of, and paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to, this
Agreement;
    (g)   "Private Enterprise" means a commercial entity
registered as a joint stock company according to the applicable
rules and regulations of the Borrower in which 51% or more of
the interest is held by persons or companies other than the
Borrower or a political or administrative subdivision thereof,
or any agency of the Borrower or any subdivision thereof, or
any regional, local or other governmental body, or any entity
controlled by the Borrower;
    (h)   "Project Steering Committee" means the committee
referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of, and paragraph 1 (b) of
Schedule 5 to, this Agreement;
    (i)   "Seed Law" means the law of the Borrower on Seeds of
December 15, 1993;
    (j)   "Seed Policy Letter" means the letter issued by the
Minister of Economy of the Borrower to the Bank, dated
September 9, 1994, which sets out the liberalization policies
of the Borrower for the seed sector;
    (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (l)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "Subsidiary Loan" mean,
respectively, the agreement entered into by the Borrower,
through the Financial Agent, with each of the Participating
Page  3
Seed Enterprises pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
including all schedules to such Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
    (m)   "UAAS" means the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences established pursuant to the Decree of the Borrower's
Council of Ministers No. 279, dated March 22, 1990, or any
legal successor thereto;
    (n)   "Variety Protection Law" means the Law of the Borrower
on Protection of Plant Variety Rights of April 21, 1993; and
    (o)   "Parliament" means the Verkhovna Rada of the Borrower
or any legal successor thereto.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of thirty two million dollars
($32,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts B, C and D
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
Page  4
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15  and July 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, technical,
accounting, environmental and financial practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
Page  5
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
    (a)   by September 30, 1995, review, with the assistance of
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, the Seed Law and Variety
Protection Law with a view of ensuring that these laws conform
with the Borrower's liberalization policies referred to in the
Seed Policy Letter and conform to international standards;
    (b)   by November 30, 1995, submit the findings of such
review to the Bank for review and afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on such findings; and
    (c)   by March 31, 1996, based on the findings of such
review, and taking into account the views of the Bank thereon,
present to the Borrower's Parliament specific proposals for
amending or modifying the Seed Law and the Variety Protection
Law.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, in regard to the
production, marketing and trade in the types of seeds covered
by the Project, establish and maintain all regulatory measures
necessary to carry out the liberalization policies referred to
in the Seed Policy Letter.
    Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
program, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the regulatory framework for the
national seed system and the agricultural research system;
    (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said program; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said program with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B, C and D of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the said Parts of the Project or
any sub-parts thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than four months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Any Participating Seed Enterprise shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan
Agreement as determined by the Borrower and/or the Bank.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that one or more of
the Participating Seed Enterprises will be able to perform its
obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
    (c)   The Charter of any Participating Seed Enterprise shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of such
Participating Seed Enterprise to perform any of its obligations
under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
    (d)   Any Participating Seed Enterprise shall have been
dissolved or disestablished or its operations shall have been
suspended.
    (e)   Any Participating Seed Enterprise shall have ceased to
be a private enterprise as defined in Section 1.02 (g) hereof.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
Page  7
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e)
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   The Financial Agency Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
has been duly signed on behalf of the parties thereto and has
entered into force;
    (b)   At least two Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to
the Bank have been signed on behalf of the parties thereto and
have entered into force; and
    (c)   The order establishing the PMU and the Project Steering
Committee has been issued and the PMU and the Project Steering
Committee have been established with functions, powers and
staff satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely that each of the Financial Agency
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly
authorized or ratified by the respective parties thereto and is
legally binding upon the respective parties thereto in
accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          12/2 Hrushevsky St.
          Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
                                         Telex:
                                            131450
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
Page  8
                                            197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       UKRAINE
                       By /s/ Roman Shpek
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated                 % of
                            (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Items provided under
    turnkey contract for
    Odesa Maize Seed
    Enterprise under
    Part A of the Project:
    (a)  goods, equip-             9,000,000        100% of foreign
         ment and                                   expenditures
         materials
    (b)  civil works                 750,000        50% of expend-
                                                    itures
(2) Other goods and                1,150,000        100% of foreign
    equipment provided                              expenditures,
    for Odesa Maize                                 100% of local
    Seed Enterprise                                 expenditures
    under Part A of                                 (ex-factory
    the Project                                     cost) and 75%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(3) Goods, equip-                  4,120,000        100% of foreign
    ment, and                                       expenditures
    materials
Page  9
    provided under
    turnkey contract
    for Trostianetsk
    Sugarbeet Seed
    Enterprise under
    Part A of the
    Project
(4) Other goods and                  910,000        100% of foreign
    equipment pro-                                  expenditures,
    vided for                                       100% of local
    Trostianetsk                                    expenditures
    Sugarbeet Seed                                  (ex-factory
    Enterprise under                                cost) and 75%
    Part A of the                                   of local ex-
    Project                                         penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(5) Goods, equip-                  3,800,000        100% of foreign
    ment, and                                       expenditures
    materials
    provided under
    turnkey con-
    tract for
    Zaporizhzhia
    Sunflower Seed
    Enterprise under
    Part A of the
    Project
(6) Goods, equipment, and          2,210,000        100% of foreign
    materials provided                              expenditures,
    under Part B of the                             100% of local
    Project                                         expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(7) Goods, equipment               2,260,000        100% of foreign
    and materials                                   expenditures,
    provided under                                  100% of local
    Part C of the                                   expenditures
    Project                                         (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(8) Incremental                      340,000        100%
    operating costs
    under Part D of
    the Project
(9) Consultants'                   1,690,000        100%
    services and
    training
(10) Unallocated                   5,770,000
                                  __________
         TOTAL                    32,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
Page  10
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   the term "turnkey contract" means a contract for
design, supply and erection of a seed plant; and
    (d)   the term "incremental operating costs" means operation
and maintenance costs which would not have been incurred absent
the Project and includes, inter alia, costs with respect to:
(i) office equipment and supplies procured for the PMU; (ii)
travel expenditures of PMU staff associated with the Project;
(iii) salaries paid to the PMU staff hired for the purposes of
the Project; and (iv) cost of audits required under Parts B
through D of the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
    (b)   expenditures under Categories (1) and (2), or
Categories (3) and (4), or Category (5), as the case may be,
for the Participating Seed Enterprise with which a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has not been previously concluded in accordance
with Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, until the Bank shall
have communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of the
evidence furnished to the Bank that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to the Bank has been duly concluded between the
Borrower, acting through the Financial Agent, and the
Participating Seed Enterprise concerned, and has entered into
force, which Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the respective parties thereto and is legally
binding upon the respective parties thereto in accordance with
its terms; and
    (c)   expenditures under Category (6) until the Bank shall
have received an acceptable plan for the improvement of the
Borrower's System of Seed Testing and Protection of Plant
Varieties.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods, works and services under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
improving its agricultural productivity and agricultural
exports through: (i) the supply of quality hybrid seeds for
maize, sunflower and sugarbeet; and (ii) improvements in the
efficiency and viability of the domestic seed system.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Hybrid Seed Production
    Establishment and initial operation of three Private
Enterprises specializing in the production, processing and
marketing of hybrid maize, sunflower, and sugar beet seed.
Part B:   Regulatory Framework
Page  11
    Strengthening, through provision and upgrading of equipment,
facilities, technical assistance and staff training, of the
institutional capacity of agriculture regulatory agencies of
the Borrower to regulate the seed system.
Part C:   Germplasm Maintenance and Improvement
    Provision of equipment and materials, technical assistance
and training for germplasm maintenance and improvement in the
UAAS research institutes in Kyiv, Odesa, and Zaporizhzhia
(Sugarbeet Institute, Plant Breeding and Genetics Institute,
Oilseeds Institute, and Institute of Agro-Ecology and
Biotechnology).
Part D:   Project Management
    Establishment and operation of the Project Management Unit
capable of providing administrative, institutional and training
support to implement the Project.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning January 15, 2001
    through January 15, 2012                   1,335,000
On July 15, 2012                               1,295,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
Page  12
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works,
including goods and works under turnkey contracts, shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank shall be used, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with
the Bank shall be used.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
Page  13
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Ukraine may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Laboratory equipment, chemicals, and data processing
equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$300,000 per contract, and up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items under Part D of the Project
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract and up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract referred to in Parts A
and C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in implementing the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Page  14
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined
by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  During the execution of the Project the Borrower shall:
    (a)   maintain the PMU with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank and ensure that the PMU is at all
times headed by a full-time project manager and one technical
assistant, with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (b)   maintain the Project Steering Committee with
composition, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank, including overseeing the Project implementation and
supervising the PMU.
2.  For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project the
Borrower shall:
    (a)   relend to the Participating Seed Enterprises the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Categories (1) through (5) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, acting
through the Financial Agent, and each such Participating Seed
Enterprise, under terms and conditions which shall include,
without limitation, those set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule 5;
    (b)   (i) exercise its rights under the Financial Agency
Agreement and Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to
achieve the purposes of the Project; (ii) except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, suspend and/or terminate any Subsidiary
Loan Agreement upon occurrence of the events set forth in Part
D of the Annex to Schedule 5; and (iii) except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Financial Agency Agreement or any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any respective provision thereof;
    (c)   coordinate the overall execution of Part A of the
Project and monitor the carrying out by the Participating Seed
Page  15
Enterprises of their obligations under the respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (d)   take or cause to be taken all action, including, inter
alia, the measures specified in the Seed Policy Letter,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Participating Seed
Enterprises to perform in accordance with the provisions of
their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations
of the Participating Seed Enterprises therein set forth, and
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
3.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   carry out Part B of the Project through the State
Commission for Seed Quality Control and the State Commission
for Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties; and
    (b)   by March 1, 1996, submit to the Bank a plan acceptable
to the Bank for the reorganization of the System of Seed
Testing and Protection of Plant Varieties.
4.  The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project through
the UAAS and its selected institutes and, for this purpose
shall by October 30, 1995, cause the UAAS to engage consultants
with experience, qualifications and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank who shall assist the UAAS to review
the Borrower's system of agricultural research.
5.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   by April 30 and October 30 of each year during the
execution of the Project submit to the Bank for review and
comment semi-annual progress reports of such scope and detail
as the Bank shall stipulate from time to time; and
    (b)   (i) by no later than twelve months following the date
of the effectiveness of this Agreement, submit to the Bank a
status report on the Project which shall include a summary on
the status of Project implementation and initial operating
results; and (ii) by no later than three months following the
submission of such status report to the Bank, conduct with the
Bank a review of the said status report.
                            ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
A.  Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans to
    Participating Seed Enterprises
Loan Amount:                 up to the amounts stipulated for the
                             items to be provided to the respective
                             Participating Seed Enterprise under
                             Categories (1) through (5) of the
                             table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
                             this Agreement
Currency:                    dollars
Term:                        not to exceed 11 years maturity
                             including grace period of up to
                             four years
Interest rate:               4.30% above the rate of the Bank
                             Loan
Interest period:             six months
B.  Eligibility Criteria for Participating Seed Enterprises
    A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a
Participating Seed Enterprise duly established, registered and
Page  16
operating under the laws of the Borrower, which, as the
Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed:
    1.    has duly funded working capital needs through the
          provision of credit and/or contribution of capital by
          the founders thereof;
    2.    has a staffing plan satisfactory to the Bank for
          employment of management and essential staff; and
    3.    has adopted a Charter satisfactory to the Bank.
C.  Principal Obligations of the Participating Seed Enterprises
    Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain
provisions pursuant to which each respective Participating Seed
Enterprise shall undertake to:
    (a)   carry out its activities under Part A of the Project
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, technical,
accounting, environmental and financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate
numbers and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose;
    (b)   (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to the Bank, the Borrower and the Financial Agent,
as may be reasonably requested by the Bank, the Borrower and/or
the Financial Agent, with regard to the progress of its
activities under the Project, the performance of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Project; and (ii)
promptly inform the Financial Agent of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
    (c)   (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations
and financial condition; (ii) have its records, accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii)
furnish to the Bank and the Financial Agent as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of said financial
statements and accounts for such year, certified copies of said
financial statements and accounts for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
and detail as the Bank and/or the Financial Agent shall have
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank and the
Financial Agent such other information concerning said records,
accounts, and financial statements, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank and/or the Financial Agent shall from time
to time reasonably request;
    (d)   (i) procure the goods and works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, (ii) use such goods and works
exclusively in the carrying out of Part A of the Project, and
(iii) adopt design criteria for the seed plant which shall
provide for appropriate dust removal systems and storage
facilities for chemicals;
    (e)   at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial, agricultural
and environmental practices;
    (f)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
Page  17
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice;
    (g)   (i) except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt
the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than six to one;
and (ii) for purposes of this paragraph (g):
          1.    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                Participating Seed Enterprise maturing by its
                terms more than one year after the date on which
                it is originally incurred.
          2.    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                providing for such debt or for the modification
                of its terms of payment on the date of such
                contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered
                into.
          3.    The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                reserves of the Participating Seed Enterprise not
                allocated to cover specific liabilities.
          4.    Whenever for the purposes of this paragraph (g)
                it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
                currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                at which such other currency is, at the time of
                such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                acceptable to the Bank.
    (h)   except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree: (i) not declare any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its share capital, unless such
Participating Seed Enterprise is current in the service of all
its debt service requirements and, after such dividend has been
paid or other distribution has been made, the debt to equity
ratio of the Participating Seed Enterprise (determined pursuant
to paragraph (g) above) would equal or be less than 3:1; (ii)
not declare a dividend or make any other distribution with
respect to its share capital that exceeds 50% of the net profit
of such Participating Seed Enterprise unless, after such
dividend has been paid or other distribution has been made, the
debt to equity ratio of the Participating Seed Enterprise
(determined pursuant to paragraph (g) above) would equal or be
less than 1:1; and (iii) for the purposes of this paragraph
(h):
          1.    the term "net profit" means the sum of revenues
                from all sources related to operations minus the
                sum of all expenses related to debt service
                requirements and taxes and payments in lieu of
                taxes; and
          2.    the term "debt service requirements" means the
                aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                charges on, debt.
    (i)   (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
program, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the
Page  18
Participating Seed Enterprise; (ii) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on
said program; and            (iii) there-after, carry out said plan
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon.
D.  Remedies under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
    Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall also provide
that the right of the Participating Seed Enterprise under such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be:
    (a)   suspended upon its failure to: (i) comply with any of
the criteria set forth in Part B of this Annex to Schedule 5;
or (ii) perform any of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
    (b)   terminated if such right shall have been suspended
pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof for a continuing period of 120
days.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (6)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Parts B, C and D of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  19
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Parts B, C and D of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Parts B, C and D of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts B, C and D of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
Page  20
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
