                                                                                                                    92013
World Bank Projects in Agriculture                                                                                  April 19, 2004
Over the last five years the Ukrainian Government achieved essential successes in developing the agrarian sector of the economy. Land
reform is being actively implemented, the competitive ability of agricultural produce is becoming ever higher, which almost fully covers the
Ukrainian domestic market, and the volumes of export deliveries are increasing. The assistance rendered by the World Bank since 1996
gave an appreciable impetus to the sector development.
 
One of these financial aids concerned implementation of key economic reforms in the agrarian sector. To provide such aid, a
project was developed entitled “ Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan” (the World Bank loan of $US 300 million). Initiated in
1996, this project was implemented during two years. Its resources were used to carry out land reform, to restructure
agricultural enterprises, to privatize and demonopolize agro-industrial enterprises, as well as to liberalize internal and external
trade and to finance the critical import needs.
 
The Seeds Development Project  was also completed successfully (its total cost is $US 63.3 million, the World Bank loan is
$US 32 million). The project was implemented during the period from 1995 to 2000. It helped improve the situation in the
area of seed production and develop its competitiveness. In particular, efforts were made to broaden the activities of three
private enterprises specializing in the production, processing and sale of domestic and imported hybrid seeds of maize,
sunflower and sugar-beet. Financial and technical aid was given to improve the normative and legal basis in the area of seed
production, a long-term strategy and programs in the sphere of agricultural studies were developed and put into effect. The
Ukrainian Institute of Agroecology and Biotechnologies, which was given an appreciable support, was involved in project
implementation.
 
The Rural Finance Project is at a preparatory stage. Its total cost is to be determined yet, however, the World Bank’s
contribution is already known – $US 200 million. The general objective of the project is to facilitate the development of
effectively operating and competitive rural regions, and to improve the living standards of the rural population. This can be
achieved by ensuring that farmers, collective agricultural enterprises, representatives of small and medium businesses, who
work in rural areas, have the broadest possible access to financial services.
 
The project envisages the development of financial institutions and services for rural workers, increased supply of long-term
capital in the rural economy, stimulating of the activities of financial intermediaries who serve rural clients, as well as
elaboration and approval of legislative acts for creating a favorable political environment for rural financing.
 
At the first stage of project implementation, an efficient system of crediting agricultural producers and rendering leasing
services to them will be, specifically, developed and microfinancing will be provided to expand the current network of rural
branches of private intermediary banks. Subsequently, a second-level mortgage institution is planned to be established which
will provide mortgage finance for rural areas. Currently, Ukrainian officials jointly with international consultants are elaborating
comprehensive legislative reform which will make it possible to use various movable assets (equipment, movable property
combined with real estate, receivables) to ensure financial operations.
 
In June 2003, the World Bank approved the decision to extend a loan in the amount of $US 195 million for implementing the
Rural Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project for Ukraine.  In doing so, the World Bank supported land reform as
a priority component of economic transformations that are taking place in the Ukrainian agrarian sector.
 
The activities envisaged by the project are aimed at a fair distribution of land plots among farmers, consolidating of their
ownership rights to land by issuing respective state land titles on a free-of-charge basis, as well as the development of a land
lease market, which is to contribute to improving the living standards of the rural population.
 
“This loan will provide financial resources which the government needs to carry out the state program of land reform, in
particular, the issuing of state titles to land ownership in rural areas, and creating of an effective cadastre and a system of
land title registration,” says Mr. Iain Shuker, project leader.
 
It is expected that the project implementation will contribute to increasing the number of profitable enterprises, strengthening
the social protection of rural population and improving the environmental conditions.
 
The project will focus much attention to informing the population on the work carried out and the significance of land reform
on the whole. Legal services will be provided for landholders. It is envisaged to conduct training of specialists on issues of
reforming agricultural enterprises and issuance of state land titles, as well as of land-management specialists. This training
will be organized by Ukrainian educational institutions. Furthermore, additional funds will be allocated to purchase required
equipment for agrarian universities in the cities of Odesa, Lviv, Kharkiv and Kyiv.
           
Translated by V. Ivchenko
 
 
