Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17938
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
(GET GRANT TF028642)
June 1, 1998
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Irani Rials equivalent of US$1
Floating Exchange Rate
(annual averages)       Export Exchange Rate
1994                    1749                      2000
1995                    1748                      2350
1996                    1751
1997                    1754                      3000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AQCC         Air Quality Control Company (a subsidiary of the Municipality of Tehran)
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GET          Global Environment Trust
GHG          Greenhouse Gases
GOIRI        Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran
IIV         International Joint Venture of Consultants
IPE          International Panel of Experts
PMU          Project Management Unit
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TCTTS        Tehran Comprehensive Transportation and Traffic Studies Company (a subsidiary
of the Municipality of Tehran)
TERP         Tehran Transport Emissions Reduction Project
TOR          Terms of Reference
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
Vice President:      Kemal Dervi§
Director CMU:        Inder Sud
Director SMU:        Jean-Claude Villiard
Project Officers:    Claude Archambault, Transport Specialist, MNSID
Henri Beenhakker, Pr. Transport Economist, MNSID



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
GET - IRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS TRANSPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .......1
A. Statement / Evaluation  of Project Objectives .............................................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ............................................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................................................3
D. Project Sustainability ............................................................................4
E. Bank Performance ............................................................................5
F. Recipient Performance ............................................................................6
G. Assessment of Outcome .............................................................................7
H. Future Operation ............................................................................7
I. Key lessons learned ............................................................................8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1         Summary  of assessment ............................................................................9
Table 2           Related Bank Loans/Credits ...........................................................................                     10
Table 3          Project timetable ...........................................................................11 
Table 4          Loan Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated  and Actual .......................................... 11
Table 5           Key indicators for Project implementation ................................................................. 11
Table 6           Studies included in the Project ...........................................................................                 12
Table 7A         Project Costs ...........................................................................                                   12
Table 7B         Project Financing ...........................................................................                               12
Table 8           Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................................................                      13
Table 9          Bank Resources - Staff Input ...........................................................................                     14
Table  10        Bank Resources - Missions ...........................................................................                       14
PART III: Recipient's contribution to the ICR
MAP: IBRD No. 29378
This documens has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
(GET GRANT TF028642)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tehran Transport
Emissions Reduction Project, in the Islamic Republic of Iran, for which Global
Environment Trust (GET) Grant Number TF028642 in the amount of SDR 1.5 million
equivalent was approved on October 5, 1993, and made effective on January 3, 1994.
The Grant was closed on December 31, 1997. The project was expected to be
completed by June 30, 1996, but at the request of the Recipient, the closing date was
extended twice, from the original closing date of December 31, 1996. As of January 23,
1998, there was an undisbursed amount of SDR 5790.90 (equivalent to US$ 7,768.00)
that was cancelled on the same day.
The ICR was prepared by Claude Archambault (MNSID) and was reviewed by
Jean-Claude Villiard, Director (MNSID). The Recipient provided comments, as well as
its own completion report that is included as Part III to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission of
June 27 - July 2, 1997. It is based on material in the project files. The Recipient
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by (a) offering views reflected in the mission's
aide-memoire attached under Appendix A to the ICR; (b) preparing its own evaluation of
the project's initial preparation and execution; and (c) commenting on the draft version of
the ICR.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
(GET GRANT TF028642)
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Introduction
1.    The Tehran Transport Emissions Reduction Project (TERP) was one of the first projects
approved by the GEF board after it was established following the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. Identified and appraised as a pilot
project, with a Grant amount of SDR 1.5 million', it was rated satisfactory from the following
points of view: (i) Bank performance; (ii) Grant Recipient performance; and (iii) assessment of
project outcome. The project is deemed sustainable, but the current US trade embargo against
Iran may adversely affect future data collection and analysis of air pollutants in the city of
Tehran.
Project Objectives
2.    Original Project Objectives. The main objective of the project was to assess measures
that would reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions from urban transport operations in the city
of Tehran, and improve local air quality.
3.    More precisely, the project was to: (i) assess measures, including efficient pricing of
inputs and urban transport services, that would reduce GHG emissions from vehicular traffic; (ii)
identify a schedule of measures to achieve a target air quality improvement; (iii) quantify the
costs of various interventions to reduce GHG and local air pollutant emissions from urban
transport in a setting characterized by proven technologies that are typical of non-industrialized
and newly industrialized countries; and (iv) assist the Grant Recipient2 in defining urban
transport policies which are environmentally sustainable from a local and from a global
standpoint.
4.    Achievement of Project Objectives. By and large the project has achieved its stated
physical and institutional objectives: (i) AQCC has commissioned a comprehensive study that
modeled traffic flows and air quality in Tehran, to assess measures that could reduce GHG
emissions from vehicular traffic; (ii) it prepared an Action Plan to reduce PM-10 and GHG, and
to improve air quality in Tehran; (iii) it identified those actions for which the municipality would
be responsible, that could reduce both PM-10 and GHG by 38 percent by the year 2015, as
compared to a business-as-usual scenario; and (iv) it prepared a strategy, based on a set of cost-
effective measures, to reduce transport emissions in the short (0-5 years), medium (5-10 years)
I Equivalent to about US$ 2.1 million, with a similar contribution from the Recipient.
2 The Bank entered into a Global Environment Trust Grant Agreement with the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran (GOIRI), and into a Project Agreement with the Municipality of Tehran.



ii
and long term (10-20 years). The Recipient has prepared a detailed action plan as the outcome of
the study.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was successfully completed, and the Municipality of Tehran has indicated its
commitment to implement the Consultants' major recommendations. It has also instructed Air
Quality Control Company (AQCC), a subsidiary of the Municipality, to take appropriate
measures to execute the Implementation Plan.
6.    The project suffered some delays, and the closing date was extended twice, from the
original date of December 31, 1996 to the final closing date of December 31, 1997. At the end of
June 1997, the Recipient had spent a total of Rls 6.1 billion, approximately US$ 2.1 million at
the current exchange rate. At the project closing date, there was an undisbursed amount of SDR
5,790.90 (corresponding to US$ 7,768.00), and this amount was canceled on January 23, 1998.
7.     Key Factors Affecting the Project. Two major factors have had a major influence on the
project: (i) the Government of Iran is reluctant to increase gasoline and diesel prices3, a measure
seen as a prerequisite to induce vehicle owners to reduce their fuel consumption, and to promote
urban transit in order to improve air quality in Tehran; and (ii) implementation delays occurred
mainly because the original project schedule was unrealistic, and the Recipient was unfamniliar
with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. In spite of these problems, the
overall success of the project can be attributed to the quality of AQCC's management team and
the fact that it was closely associated with all phases of the project.
8.    Bank's and Recipient's Performance. The Bank identified and prepared one of the first
GEF projects approved by the board. It provided support to the Recipient throughout the course
of the project, and it contributed to local institutional development. As the project management
agency, AQCC's performance was satisfactory.
9.    Assessment of Project Outcome. The project is rated as satisfactory, since it has
achieved most of its objectives, and is expected to contribute to strengthening AQCC as the
agency responsible for monitoring and improving air quality in Tehran.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Project Implementation Experience. The early decision to have one agency rather than
three responsible for project implementation was a major factor in the success of the project.
However, more time should have been allocated to prepare the terms of reference, analyze
proposals, and negotiate a contract. In addition, the Terms of Reference, prepared by the IPE,
addressed concurrently too many objectives that were not necessarily relevant to evaluate the
cost effectiveness of various measures to abate transport related emissions in Tehran and to
decrease GHG production.
11.   Project Sustainability. The project is deemed sustainable, in view of the commitment of
AQCC and the municipality of Tehran to ensure its success. The Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran (GOIRI) has not shown the same level of commitment, and it is doubtful that it
3Currently, these prices are much lower than border prices, e.g. US$ 0.05 per liter for regular gasoline, and
less than US$ 0.02 for diesel, while the border price is about US$ 0.11 per liter.



iii
will take the necessary measures to reduce GHG in a significant way. Also the current US trade
embargo against Iran will prevent the Recipient from acquiring spare parts for the pollution
monitoring equipment that was purchased through the Grant, but this is not viewed as a major
threat to the sustainability of the project.
12.   Lessons for Future Projects. Three major lessons can be derived from this project: (i) a
strong commitment is needed at the national level, and not only at the local or regional level,
since policies such as fuel pricing have a major impact on the emission and/or reduction of GHG;
(ii) the GEF goals of reducing GHG were not the first priority of the Municipality of Tehran,
which was more interested in developing methods to reduce particulate matter (PM-10) in the
atmosphere; in the future, more attention should be paid to the needs of the Recipient, and they
should be recognized in the project design; and (iii) there is a need to collect a large quantity of
data over as long a period as possible, to model both the traffic patterns in the City, and the air
pollution dispersion patterns.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
(GET GRANT TF028642)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Statement / Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The Tehran Transport Emissions Reduction Project (TERP) was funded by the Global
Environment Trust (GET). It was executed by the Municipality of Tehran through a Project
Agreement with the Bank. The Municipality in turn entrusted one of its subsidiaries, Air Quality
Control Co. (AQCC), to act as the Project Management Unit (PMU).
2.     Project Objectives. The main objective of the project was to assess measures that would
reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from urban transport operations in the city of Tehran,
and improve local air quality. The project document' confirmed this objective could be achieved
through:
(a)    assessing measures, including efficient pricing of inputs and urban transport
services, that would reduce GHG emissions from vehicular traffic;
(b)   identifying a schedule of measures to achieve a target air quality improvement;
(c)    quantifying the costs of various interventions to reduce GHG and local air
pollutant emissions from urban transport in a setting characterized by proven
technologies that are typical for non-industrialized and newly industrialized
countries; and
(d)    assisting the Recipient of the Grant, i.e. the Municipality of Tehran through the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran (GOIRI), in defining urban transport
policies which are environmentally sustainable from a local and from a global
standpoint.
3.    Those objectives proved realistic in view of the Recipient's responsibilities. The thrust
of the project was a study commissioned to assist the Municipality of Tehran in preparing an
Action Plan to reduce transport related emissions in the City: 57 percent of the Grant was
1 Memorandum and recommendation of the Director Middle East and North Africa Country Department I
to the Regional Vice-President, October 1993



- 2 -
disbursed towards that end. Another major element was the procurement of air pollution
monitoring equipment. This equipment was installed, and is maintained, by the Recipient: 29
percent of the Grant was disbursed for that purpose. The remaining 14 percent was used to
reimburse fees and expenses to the members of an International Panel of Experts (IPE) convened
to assist the Recipient in its tasks, especially to prepare the terms of reference for the above study
and to review the Consultants' reports.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
4.    Physical objectives. By and large the objectives of the project have been met through
the following actions by AQCC:
(a)    commissioning of a comprehensive study to assess measures that would reduce
GHG emissions from vehicular traffic and that included: (i) emissions inventory;
(ii) recommendations on traffic management and traffic restraint; (iii)
re,zommendations to improve vehicle fleet and fuel; and (iv) preparation of a
strategic urban transport emissions reduction plan;
(b)    preparing an Action Plan which describes a number of measures to be taken by
AQCC to improve air quality in Tehran, and reduce PM- 10 and GHG;
(c)   implementing that part of the Action Plan under its control, by introducing
transport measures that could reduce both PM- 10 and GHG by 3 8 percent by the
year 2015; and
(d)    "recommending a set of cost effective measures to reduce transport emissions in
the short (0-5 years), medium (5-10 years) and long term (10-20 years), and
providing assistance in drafting appropriate regulations, and establishing
certification and enforcement mechanisms for emissions regulation, including
2,,
transferring this know-how to Iranian professionals and technicians
5.    National Vs Local Objectives.  The strategy to reduce GHG  requires the full
commitment of the GOIRI, which is not prepared at this time to introduce policy changes that
would have a major impact on the reduction of GHG, namely the increase in fuel prices and the
establishment of stringent regulations concerning the amount of lead in gasoline and the sulfur
content of diesel. Also, during the course of the project, it became evident that the Recipient was
more concerned with local pollutants, especially particulate matter (PM-10), which are a real
problem in Tehran, than with the reduction of GHG, which was the prime concern of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). This led to greater emphasis having been given in the International
Joint Venture's (IJV) final report to local pollutants than was envisaged at appraisal and in the
Project Document, which primarily addressed GEF concerns on GHG.
6.    Institutional Development. The project provided the Municipality of Tehran with a
blueprint to define environmentally sustainable transport policies and to enforce those policies.
AQCC was actively involved in all phases of the study referred to above, thus gaining an
invaluable insight in the current methods and costs of abating pollution in an urban environment.
2Refer to Part III: Project Implementation Assessment from the Recipient's Perspective.



- 3 -
Other municipal agencies3 that participated in the project also benefited from working in close
collaboration with the IJV.
7.    The IPE provided an important contribution to the project, by preparing the terms of
reference for the study and by offering comments on the various papers and reports prepared by
the IJV during the course of their work. The terms of reference reflected the various background
of the IPE members, and closer attention should have been paid by AQCC to the need for
integrating the various concerns of the IPE members into a unified document.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
8.    Implementation Delays. There were four major sources of delay that occurred at the
very beginning of the project, and at its completion:
(a)    The Project Agreement called for terms of references (TOR) for three of the four
studies to be prepared no later than four months after effectiveness of the Grant
Agreement, and for the consultants to undertake their work no later than seven
months after effectiveness. This very tight schedule proved impossible to
follow. TORs were not issued before ten months after date of effectiveness, a
delay of six months, because no proper account had been taken of the inherent
delays in communication between the IPE members themselves, and between the
IPE and the Recipient, especially after it was decided to issue only one set of
TOR rather than four. The IJV mobilized their staff in Tehran on October 28,
1995, close to 22 months after effectiveness.
(b)    A period of three months only had been allowed for issuing the TORs, receiving
and analyzing proposals from the short listed consultants, and signing a contract
with the chosen consultants. This period proved much too short, and a more
sensible delay of six to eight months should have been planned, in view of the
inherent complexity of the international bidding procedure for a major study and
of the inexperience of the project management unit in international competitive
bidding.
(c)    An additional delay of five months was incurred between the signing of the
contract and the actual beginning of the work, because the contract as it was
signed had not received a no objection from the Bank, and contained clauses that
had to be changed to become acceptable to the Bank.
(d)    Additional delays were incurred at the end of the project, when it became clear
that the IJV had to make corrections to their final report, but the final meeting
between AQCC, the IJV, the IPE members and the Bank, where the IJV was to
present its final report, was postponed, at the request of the Recipient, by two
months, due to intervening presidential elections in Iran.
3 Namely the Center for Studies and Planning, the Tehran Comprehensive Transportation and Traffic
Studies Company (TCTTS), the Tehran Transportation and Traffic Organization, and the Tehran
Traffic Control Company



- 4 -
9.    The delays in implementing the project explain why the Grant Agreement was amended
twice at the request of the Recipient:
(a)    The closing date was extended from December 31, 1996 to June 30, 1997, to
compensate for administrative delays in issuing the terms of reference for the
study on traffic and pollution, and in signing the contract for that study.
(b)    The closing date was further extended to December 31, 1997, to provide
sufficient time for AQCC to review the final report, and process invoices.
10.   Project Management. In large part, the success of the project can be attributed to the
quality of the management team put in place by AQCC to supervise all phases of the project. In
particular, (i) AQCC staff has demonstrated its capability to collect and analyze pollution data,
and to use a pollution dispersion model to develop the most cost-effective measures to abate
pollution; (ii) its project manager was a highly qualified specialist in air pollution control, and its
staff was competent and highly motivated; and (iii) it had access to all data gathered by other
municipal agencies, which proved absolutely essential in the study where a huge amount of data
was processed to model the various pollutants as they dispersed in the atmosphere.
11.   Disbursements. Special procedures were put in place to transfer payments to the IJV and
to the IPE members. The intervening devaluation of the Iranian Rial had no effect on the project,
since counterpart funds were made available for the equivalent of US$ 2.1 million, as stipulated
in the Grant Agreement.
D.    Project Sustainability
12.   The project is deemed sustainable. In particular, AQCC staff has demonstrated its
capability to collect and analyze pollution data, and to promote pollution abatement actions
among the various municipal agencies. Various actions taken by AQCC demonstrate its
eagerness to improve air quality in Tehran, for instance: (i) AQCC has purchased a license to use
the software developed by the IJV to model pollution dispersion in Tehran; (ii) it has organized
national and international seminars to disseminate the results of the Consultants' reports, and its
own findings; and (iii) it leads a major campaign - television, newspapers, billboards - to
increase public awareness of the negative impacts of transport related pollution in the city of
Tehran.
13.   On the other hand, however competent and dedicated its staff, AQCC is but one of
numerous subsidiaries operating under the deputy mayor of Tehran for Transport and Planning,
and the present organization is highly dependent upon the local and national political situation.
These various organizations are often in conflict one against the other, and links and cooperation
between them are very weak, when they exist at all. To compound the problem, the Department
of the Environment has not shown much interest nor commitment to the project, and it is
doubtful that it would press the municipality to keep its current focus on abating pollution should
there be a change of municipal government.
14.   Another factor strongly affecting the outcome of the project is the reluctance of GOIRI
to increase gasoline and diesel prices in order to improve fuel quality and efficiency, and to



- 5 -
promote urban transit.  The present policy of keeping those prices very low4 prevents
commercialization of unleaded gasoline and low-sulfur diesel, gives no incentive to vehicle
owners to reduce their fuel consumption, and introduces distortions in the choice of a mode for
any journey, and particularly the work journeys.  The Government acknowledges such
distortions, but even small annual increases that did not compensate for the inflation have
created major social disturbances in the City of Tehran in the past few years. At the present rate,
it will take more than ten years to attain border prices.
15.    The pollution measuring equipment that was purchased and installed as part of the
project is of US origin. In view of the current embargo that prevents US firms and their foreign
subsidiaries to sell goods and services to GOIRI or to Iranian firms, AQCC cannot obtain spare
parts to maintain this equipment in a proper condition. This is viewed as a problem by AQCC,
but it should not affect the project sustainability, which is based mainly on the implementation of
the Action Plan, and not on further collection of pollution data.
E.    Bank Performance
16.   Identification. One can say without doubt that the Bank performance in identifying the
project has been highly satisfactory. The TERP project was one of the first projects that were
approved by the GEF board after it was established following the United Nations Conference on
Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro (1992). The first Bank mission was held in
January 1992, and the project was appraised in May of the following year. The Municipality of
Tehran was selected for the following reasons: (i) it was, and still is, a highly polluted city with
considerable potential for low cost interventions that would reduce both GHG emissions and
local air pollutants; (ii) it had a rich diversity of transport related developments either planned or
under implementation; and (iii) the GOIRI was strongly committed to address global climate
change issues. Also it became evident during the course of the study that the various municipal
agencies had acquired over the years a large data bank on vehicle ownership and categories,
traffic flows, travel patterns (through origin-destination surveys) and air pollution measures.
This basic information was not necessarily available in other large cities.
17.    Appraisal. The Bank performance in appraising the project was satisfactory. The
appraisal mission was highly concerned with the disorganized urban transport system in Tehran,
with good reasons, and it recomm'ended that the project be carried out under the responsibility of
the Department of Transportation and Traffic of the municipality of Tehran through three
different agencies, namely AQCC, TCTTS, and the Tehran Vehicles Technical Inspection
Bureau. This arrangement proved too cumbersome, and AQCC had the sole responsibility for
the project after it was made effective.
18.    The appraisal mission had properly identified the key issues that the project should
address, but more care should have been given to the identification of the various components of
the study, given the limited scope of this pilot project. The study should have focused on
emissions inventory, vehicle fleet and fuel improvements, and on strategic urban transport
emissions reduction planning. As it were, the study was burdened with analyses of various types
4Current gasoline prices in Tehran are less than US$ 0.05 per liter, and less than US$ 0.02 per liter for
diesel, as compared to the current border price of about US$ 0.11 per liter.



- 6 -
of land uses, traffic restraint schemes5, and modal shift models that had little immediate impact
on the pollution levels in Tehran.
19.   Another oversight of the appraisal mission concerned the unfamiliarity of these
organizations with standard Bank's procedures, from procurement to disbursements to auditing
of the project accounts. This proved a major handicap in the course of the project, and was a
major cause of delay, although procedures as such were never questioned.
20.    Supervision. Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank conducted eight
missions at various stages of the project, and was able to assess its progress and the contribution
of the Recipient, particularly (i) the collection and analysis of pollution data; (ii) the construction
of small buildings to house the pollution monitoring equipment acquired through the Grant; and
(iii) technical and administrative support to the IJV. Numerous communications between the
Bank and AQCC have contributed to local institutional development and to the excellent
relationship which continued through project closure.
21.    Throughout the project, the Bank helped the Recipient in its relations with the IJV and
with the IPE, providing comments on all documents that were made available and helping AQCC
in properly assessing problems and drawing lessons for the future. Besides this technical
assistance, the high level of collaboration between the Bank and the Recipient ensured that the
project had been substantially completed by the closing date (December 31, 1997) and that the
Grant will most probably be entirely disbursed by the end of April 1998.
22.    During meetings in the offices of the IJV, the Bank obtained direct information on the
three partners engaged in the joint venture: a large international consulting firm, a motor vehicle
test center, and a research institute with an active research program on airborne pollution
dispersion models. Those meetings provided the Recipient with the occasion to discuss detailed
technical matters with the experts and the technicians who were actually involved in the study
and who made tests on Iranian engines and fuels in particular.
F.    Recipient Performance
23.    Preparation.  The Recipient performance in preparing the project can be rated as
satisfactory. The Project Agreement between the Bank and the Municipality of Tehran was
certainly the most important decision made during project preparation, and it was one of the
major factors in the overall success of the project. On the other hand, the Municipality did not
foresee the technical, not to mention administrative, problems in having three different agencies
each in charge of a portion of a relatively small project. This was fortunately corrected at the
project inception, when AQCC was designated as the sole agency responsible for the project and
when it was decided to invite proposals for a single comprehensive study, instead of four
separate studies.
24.    Project Management.  Project management was highly satisfactory, with AQCC's
competent project director having exercised true leadership from the beginning. All procurement
There was already a successful traffic restraint scheme, first introduced in 1979, and considerably
enlarged since then.
6As of January 23, 1998, the undisbursed amount was US$ 7,768.00.



- 7 -
for goods and services were made according to Bank's procedures: AQCC's unfamiliarity with
those procedures, including procurement and disbursement procedures, led to some delays in
approving contracts and invoices, but corrections were rapidly made. The Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Finance was responsible for administering the Special Account, and counterpart
funds were made available when needed.
25.   Audit Reports. This covenant was complied with minor delay. Independent auditors
were appointed by AQCC, and they submitted two reports: (i) the first report was limited to
transactions in the Special Account up to November 30, 1995; and (ii) the second report, dated
August 30, 1997, covered the transactions in the Special Account from December 1, 1995 to
November 30, 1996, as well as all transactions since the inception of the project in WBTF
Account 28642 GET-IRAN. The Auditors stated in their latest report that "the expenditure is
fairly stated in accordance with Schedule 1 of Global Environment Trust Fund Grant
Agreement".
26.   One covenant that was not met was the establishment of a Project Advisory Group
(PAG) consisting of representatives from various ministries7 and from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) resident mission in Iran. Rather AQCC received ad hoc advice
from two university professors in Tehran who were called upon to express their opinions
whenever it was deemed necessary.
G.    Assessment of Project Outcome
27.   The project is rated as satisfactory. It has achieved most of its objectives, and is
expected to contribute to strengthening AQCC as the agency responsible for monitoring and
improving air quality in Tehran. The equipment purchased through the Grant is working
properly, although the current US embargo on trade with Iran makes it doubtful that it can
function over the long run without appropriate spare parts. The draft final report submitted by
the IJV was deemed inadequate for numerous reasons, and the final report, although it
incorporated some revisions to correct gross mistakes, did not take proper account of most of the
comments that were made either by AQCC, the IPE members or the Bank. For this reason the
project could not be rated highly satisfactory.
H.    Future Operation
28.   In the wake of the Air Pollution Conference held in Tehran in June 1997, AQCC has
prepared an Operation Plan based on the Action Plan recommended by the IJV. This Operation
Plan can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Operate Ambient Air Monitoring stations to collect additional data for analysis.
(b)    Expand the number of stations through acquisition of additional equipment.
(c)    Promote public awareness through various media campaigns.
Representatives from the ministries of Foreign Affairs, Oil, Industry, Economics and Financial Affairs,
Housing and Urban Development, Plan and Budget Organization, and Health were to have
participated in the PAG.



- 8 -
(d)   Implement the proposed measures in the TERP study, focusing firstly on the
Ministry of Roads and Transport, and subsequently on the other ministries,
namely Interior, Oil, and Health and Medical Education.
(e)    Update the emissions database using AQCC's air pollution dispersion software
to validate the simulations with a higher degree of reliability.
(f)    Update proposed development action strategy as indicated in the TERP study.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
29.   Strong commitment to reduce GHG is needed at the national level. The reluctance of the
GOIRI to increase gasoline and diesel prices means that a large number of recommendations to
lower GHG emissions from vehicles will not be implemented. GHG reduction is a long term
effort and it requires a long term commitment from all stakeholders, and particularly by the
central government.
30.   The implementation of the Action Plan based on the recommendations of the TERP
study will also require a strong commitment from the part of the Municipality, and a level of
collaboration between the different municipal agencies that has not always existed in the past.
Finally the municipality's first priority to reduce PM-10 may not agree with the Government's
objective to reduce GHG.
31.   Any modeling effort requires a large amount of data. In the TERP case, there was a need
to model both the traffic patterns in the City, and the air pollution dispersion patterns. This data,
in the proper format, may not be available in every city. If available it would be disseminated
between various agencies that may have different priorities from the reduction of GHG or PM-
10.



-9-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 : Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial         Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro policies                       E                F                                     E
Sector policies                      EI                                 LIi                LI
Financial objectives                 EIL                                 LI               II
Institutional development            EI                                 lii                L I
Physical objectives                 EI                L                  LI ELI
Poverty reduction                   L                   I                LI 
Gender issues                       LI                LI                 LI               EC
Other social objectives              aI               LI c:I E
Environmental objectives                              LIE                L                 L
Public sector management                              LI                                   LEI
Private Sector development          L        I        L                  LI
Other                               LI                EI                LI                LI
B. Project sustainability             Likely                   Unlikely               Uncertain
LI                       LI                        Eli
C. Bank performance              Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                           [                       LI                       [m
Preparation assistance                  LI                       LI                       LI
Appraisal                             [FI                        L                          EI
Supervision                             LI                       LI EI



- 10-
D. Borrower performance          Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                            E                         [I                       E
Implementation                                                   E                        EL
Covenant compliance                    EL                         m                       E
Operation                              EL                        EL                       EL
Highly                                                Highly
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactory      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loans/Credits & Title   Purpose                                           Year of        Status
Approval
Loan 3583 - Power      To have a relatively short gestation period so as to   1993       Ongoing.
Sector Efficiency      address the load shedding problem; to upgrade planning
Improvement Project   capabilities to help ensure the sustainability of project
benefits; to lay the groundwork for commercialization
and to set the stage for attracting private sector
participation.
TF028215 - Rational    To finance the preparation of the institutional and    1996       Ongoing.
use of energy          regulatory policy aspects of energy efficiency; to
follow-up on existing demonstration audit programs; to
advise on a national energy conservation awareness
program; to strengthen training of selected staff in
energy conservation and auditing in the relevant
ministries and municipalities as well as to hold a
workshop in Tehran.



- 11 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned             Date actualliatest estimate
Identification (EPS)                  January 6, 1992                January 6, 1992
Preparation
Appraisal                               May 1, 1993                    May 1, 1993
Negotiations                          August 31, 1993             August/September, 1993
GE Board Presentation                       --                       October 5, 1993
Signing                                     --                       October 5, 1993
Effectiveness                         October 30, 1993               January 3, 1994
Midterm review
Project completion                     April 30, 1996                 June 30, 1997
Loan closing                         December 31, 1996              December 31, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual (in US$ millions)
Fiscal Year               FY94          FY95          FY96          FY97          FY98
Appraisal estimate         800           1800          2000          2000          2000
Actual                     567           567           899           1543          2100
Actual as % of Estimate    71             32            45            77           105
Date of disbursement
Note:  At appraisal the Grant was estimated at US$ 2.0 million (equivalent of SR 1.5 million), while its present
value is US$ 2.1 million
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR          Estimated                  Actual
a) Constitution of an International Panel of  4 experts             4 experts
Experts
b) Procurement of Air Pollution Monitoring    no equipment specified  detailed list of equipment
Equipment                                                     in project files
c) Studies                                 4 studies (see details in  1 comprehensive study
table 6)



- 12-
Table 6: Studies included in the project
Study and Purpose                      Status                          Impact
1. Emissions Inventory and Air    These four studies were replaced   The study was the basis for the
Quality Monitoring          by one comprehensive study that  Action Plan being implemented
included the same objectives and  by AQCC and the Municipality
technical content                of Tehran
2. Traffic Management and
Traffic Restraint Studies
3. Vehicle Fleet and Fuel
Improvement Studies
4. Strategic Urban Transport
Emissions Reduction
Planning
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)  Actual/Latest estimate (US$ million)
Local     Foreign                              Foreign
Items                          costs        costs        Total  Local costs     costs       Total
Equipment                       0.30         0.30        0.60        0.60        0.60        1.20
Studies                         1.70         1.45        3.15        1.50        1.20        2.70
IPE                                -        0.25         0.25           -        0.30        0.30
Total costs                     2.00         2.00        4.00        2.10        2.10        4.20
Note: See note to Table 4
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)  Actual/Latest estimate (US$ million)
Local     Foreign                              Foreign
Source                         costs        costs        Total  Local costs     costs       Total
GEF                                -          2.0         2.0           -        2.10        2.10
Domestic contribution            2.0            -         2.0        2.10           -        2.10
Total costs                      2.0          2.0         4.0        2.10        2.10        4.20
Note: See note to Table 4



-13-
Table 8: Status of legal covenants
Fulfillment
Loan reference  Covenant type   Present status    Date                 Description                       Comments
Grant Agreement
2.02(b)           1              C                        Special Account
3.01(a)           5             NC                        Project Advisory Group           The Recipient obtained advice
form two University professors
3.01(b)           5              C                        Subsidiary Agreement with the
Municipality of Tehran
4.01(b)           1             CD                        Audit Reports                    Audit reports were prepared for
the Project Management Unit (See
Project Agreement covenants)
Project Agreement
3.01(a)           I             CD                        Audit Reports by Independent
Auditors
Note:  Type I Financial Covenants
Type 5 Other Covenants
C     Complied with
NC    Not complied with
CD    Complied with delay



- 14-
Table 9 : Bank Resources: Staff Input
Stage of Project Cycle    Estimated weeks     Actual weeks    Estimated US $            Actual $
Through Appraisal              NA                 11.6                NA                  33.0
Appraisal - Board              NA                  9.8                NA                  44.6
Board Effectiveness            NA                  -                  NA
Supervision                    NA                48.6                 NA                 152.5
Completion                     NA                  8.8                NA                  27.6
Total                          NA                78.8                 NA                 257.7
Table 10  Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Fiscal Year          No. of       Staff-weeks  Specialized Staff Skills Represented
Cycle                                    persons      in Field
Through Appraisal    Nov. 16 - 25, 1992       1            1       Transport Specialist
Appraisal through   May 1 - 8, 1993           2            2       Principal Transport Economist,
Board Approval                                                     Environmental Specialist
Supervision         April 18 - 27, 1994       2            3       Principal Transport Economist,
____________ Environmental Specialist
Jan. 5 - 12, 1995        2            2        Principal Transport Economist,
Transport Specialist
Jan. 6 -10, 1996         2            2        Principal Transport Economist,
Transport Specialist
Nov. 3 -10,1996           1           1        Transport Specialist
March 14 - 17, 1997       1           1        Transport Specialist
Completion/Closing   Jun. 27 - Jul. 2, 1997   2            2       Principal Transport Economist,
TransporT Specialist



PART m: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
FROM THE RECIPIENT'S PERSPECTIVE
1' B   rund:      
l. . lifttbr=cIg abncsphadc pcMi.n'arLg   ,Ttt fbm pde ud.N
dnringbhezsc &w           afg   u                      db=ssioI by the
- ' . gov f~-a.d =  csm    =  l= tei . However .meed ym=    fur
. -  ing ai poUuto i Tchra had be  idczdffwl ye; .
D.pe of                               s . .l p d  air s dinsios of  pomiun
*o2ly.a ~ *aqp= .av    =ben'                a   t               ho.9 no
cozz.pchnsiv mpoit bas be= made
- Conzsidariz2g tpe. as-es and tncddLIZ air poa;uo from
iztpozzd caai  ,i iom  Terz  is t g jm to a s   prafic   wit
um a Dmiber of mma  d:s wizbihe globe, Tabm. wa scl=md by
Global           'PZCoSa(GEP) as die arLoe            foro csprojm bc
+ miLaed   Te-wr  =        due to kb   sci- mc z   c=V b           , wd
co~mdn~ frmu tbe            omrif r  lusal assisra2c= su=zd- a broad siLzd
oa Tel== =mp   ais re on  This Cznia poject is aii m;d smd
for air pu o and abam=t mra!  from  r=mr= scr based n rscm;h.
, s~vey   Anaayis Lcdudin acco-c=ir  was:  W           the Grgamr T
* A Z A)* .--            ' 
: lowinra ce C gez -of OE       agr_ess=, e           of GF paid a
vi-to Tcbm t 199Z : amcr to =          avacdabLc i fo  on _n
* vebicle f~w fad ad the piD 12= fzl Z= doc==   ws covc!ided betwen fth
Mbizd!y of  au i       Fb aA f.s(as tOe rzpr senlive of        z) an
te Word Back(as t             zgevcy for GEIs f).
The 3tkpalk  of afTcb  was asige  as the 'zItfg body for the whoLe
s~dy ogehe wt± he  uoal  ic l aS3isc=.
I. &tructuzru Of the pro.-           .
Coolig W      5    4. no  thC e glbal eWpcr     am  c pezL =m as the
socali Pane ofEx    wam discaed m r=  71ey changcd vws and bad
*   _ seies of             with the rulever oganisa-ous imveoled m. Affic and
nt



Air Quality Control Co.
crnpratiou, fuel, vebidles be~Ith pOpuladiou, en.virol   nr and urbzanplatizzg. to
cone= the neceary dam and ibf    f  ctzeg h study
- , .  -      To onduct the p=t, some of the local and              companies were
: nvim  to t-    for d~  es G
...a)- ra paadng an .  - -a.w: 
c) Miogical            andh--
I. 1S94. I ponse to tie requast 16 r2tional cpaxnies cr:sether
wMgmetss lr o.Caring   tbi projcct      e &z p haEs  their c      es were
inves9gaied'which cinsed the =.ber to dease to 8 Companies
'mong '~ 'swedihjoizur vcue S= acceptd      oweo ttn-der.' Togrop  wS
co=prised  of SWECO: as t1m. proJect m=-bem         r  ran. planing and
-zanqporiOn).r .C, the Swedish MOtrstMntre (for fuel en    and poTIuion
e,, -. .from  vehicles andM $M. the Swedish MtrologicaI -ad Hydrological
IsTi      &a;rological Affairs, air Poin=o  Modelling).
The study was    ad  by-the oMIcPak  Of Tchra(NOT) with the
coperaton of Air Quality COL Co.(AQCQ(AffllIazed to M0T). c==arag th
mi ?CnC   ff:Ze, .       '----
Tae Word Bank and.the Mlz2isz  of E      nics -ad  mncial Affars,
, flnm,cWIlry supervised the oazcL An ITe=rnationa Panel Of Experts camposed of 4
universiy professors from Amedcaxt and&EZoPan Couumies wer also appointd to
supervise the study alog wit the co Of AQCC-
Another group compdsed of the raves of the local o        sations and
misi,es werse assig  as t1e pojecr 
T-MaJor         _          acto d as the Project Advisory Goup far the projct
were as follows:
nistry of oil, Mity of Indusmy, Minisw/ ot Ec=Omics and Finania
frs,  M.istry of Haith Mistry of Husing and Urban. develpment, L
Metological    mf  of Ein ran Civil Avati
Orgcun    _ i  isOand the  ial  iatd  SaTraPCor=tkr
axid Traf ric O  sn. Te     Traf Control Co.. T u Comprehrasive
TranporIn ad TraMc Swdies Co, and Thm  'Vehicle Technical Insectiol
Bure=
M~wbi3e, since c*.rring Ou tbe project was to Wme=3rnt related w United
/Z(



I @ t    il l £  i¢i
1:11 *eI        I I *    @   4    * o  P¢  e ;@  -  *   a
Si' l"111'lrVl   , ,  | C



-.                                                                         sli.
Air Quality Contral Co.
Projecjdon of 0me air qWity fm Tdran, and missios of grenbouse gases
(GHG) through    _dcaton of the most Cf=dCve mehods, an appiate timc for
*   z pleme}don, Ewoadc and fkancial assesment and tbe leve of effecveness on
any mease for impoving ft air qafly are the maor result of the precL
Carying ou the Acto  pbn, the  olowing b=s  were takn im to
considerain        -     -i
1. Evaluation the vehicle emissi in Tba. and the conditoof GHO aL Lhe prse
and ta the foture thgh analysng te dat  lted to vie emissi
2. Estblishnent ofmouhtrigsrionsystkm  for collecting   and improvb4 the
*    ipprupriareodcl for dimpersion to predit the air quaity u W   diffemt scenCios.
- *  . E l   1i SWsibia7  W    *sf ycoa n& %fe-r  <   a of mcsm  n&aS «I
pricing, taffic pling    nsp     pricing. Ian  use,  a            demans
.mannag e, and use of aetive fhels.
4. Rcviig exisdng and proposed stansards ad policies to coIl vehicle
sies fso  and Awls, rcoappropriat slass, ars                cu mider cs   air
pollnon level5 fe nceascsb and the uinig of em1ssioz redctions reeded for a
phased pog =mme of awr galty imrovma  .
5. Recoinendfig a se of cost effldtive nu:s  to reduce  manspors 
ite shon (0-5 years), edhm (5-10 yar) and long tezm (10-20 years) and pviding
assisuac  ia. drafg       iat reglations, and. esablishing certct   an
1=nfbrccmet =ecbanisms for emissions  eadi n ng. #%is
nw-ow to Immnan pfssionals andts
S. Jczb red Deays
*   S      h.mai reaos for th  nre  es durig tepojc implentn my
be caegrie  as Dfllow;
L The no cazify bew.n the sevces aud the budgc
since er=sof rftrace of the proec: was prepared iu mantho time, and dere
was a sortrage of dm  for siding di in5Wrn2tirr existed or lacled,    pf
*  . impementatof ft  as of reforce re ed a. lot of ri.
IL 7ang a lot of probl_B ina  ufmghsoh
Sice the supervisos of tie pro4c w=a cmprised of unv=rqy profawrs
from the USA and Grce, arrngmn= of the sIIultng=S macdup in Im were
possible b?cau  of the     dntions occued in   r plau. So having thegr vtews
/4( 



U   
* Rliii  'S] 
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .    ..



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN                                             _Sq
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS
REDUCTION  PROJECT                                            5 uar
XeS y/D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nur                                                    VcY f
/p   Pollution Monitoring
Stations                                                                                          mam Hoseyn5
Subway
0-)   Subway Stations
Main Roads
Traffic Restricted Zone                                                     aA
_ Railroads                                                                   qar              us
International Boundaries                                                                                   Afs.riyeh Square
KILOMETERS
a   URAN    KA -SLAKRY REP. - ,cYR
sn,                                                                               3 ciAAI    i.g..(.OTe o   kkGop    0f i\\7
- , , 'tt/N$e  NA rx>:6c i"e,ZA  Soquare of                                                            Shahr-e-Rey
TURKEY    "u:  rr ,  '-.'TAJIK.                                                                            ur
SAR A' ~/   T.N-
RGyIS LAMIC REP. (~AFGHANISTANC'
ORDARE> ~~ OF IRAN          Th-,udris  oos
WAIT            ~~denoination andan
~~~tR            PA~~~~~KISTAN - ohe  informtion  show-- 
BAHRAIN  9-'   S         t~his00mRn   do   not                              0
; ~ j5#QTAR  --   The World .  port of
> ARABIA   %sl 'oy jodg-nn nte ea                                                                                                                  %
--                          o~~~~~~~~f -oh
co0



