GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
I A1 a i 04=Aa
Islamic Republic of Iran
- Tehran Transport Emissions Reduction Project
Project Document
October 1993
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agenc, responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington. DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of July 1, 1993)
Currency Unit = Rial (RLs)
RLB 1000 = US$0.625
US$1.0   = RLs 1600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The Metric system is used throughout this report.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBD               -  Central Business District
CFC               -  Chlorofluorocarbon
DTT               -  Department of Transport & Traffic
GEF               -  Global Environment Facility
GET               -  Global Environment Trust Fund
GHG               -  Greenhouse Gases
GOIRI             -  Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran
GWP               -  Global Warming Potential
HC                -  Hydrocarbons
I/M               -  Inspection/Maintenance
IPE               -  International Panel of Experts
MTBE              -  Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether
NMOC              -  Non-Methane Organic Compounds
PAG               -  Project Advisory Group
TM                -  Tehran Municipality
UNDP              -  United Nations Development Programme
UNEP              -  United Nations Environment Programme
VOC               -  Volatile Organic Compounds
FISCAL YEAR
Islamic Republic of Iran
Municipality of Tehran
March 21 - March 20






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Recipient                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Beneficiary:                    Tehran Municipality
GEF Category:                   Global Warming
Amount:                         SDR 1.50 million (US$2.00 million)
Terms:                          Grant
Relending Terms:                The Recipient will pass the proceeds of the GET
Grant on to Tehran Municipality in the form of a
grant
Financing Plan:                 GET Grant            $2.00 million equivalent
(foreign cost)
Tehran Municipality $2.00 million in RLs
(local cost)
Total Cost           $4.00 million
Economic Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Zap:                            IBRD No. 25050






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Tehran Transport Emissions Reduction Project
Backeround
1.     Urban transport in the rapidly growing cities of developing countries is of considerable concern from a
global warming standpoint. Worldwide, transport sector contributions to the greenhouse effect have been
estimated to be on the order of 12 to 15 percent of total emissions of all greenhouse gases (GHG), and about 30
percent of GHG emissions from the use of fossil fuels. While developing countries as a group now account for
only a small portion (2 to 3 percent) of transport related GHG emissions, they are responsible for a
disproportionate share of increases in these emissions due to increases in automobile use and the continued use
of obsolete, fuel-inefficient automotive technologies. Improving efficiency, and managing urban transport
demand to minimize emissions will require interventions in a number of inter-related areas: pricing of transport
services and fuels, provision of efficient public transit, maintenance/renewal of existing vehicle fleets, upgrading
domestic vehicle technologies, etc. Tehran was selected as the location for the project for a number of reasons:
the city suffers from severe air pollution for which transport is the primary cause and a strong potential exists
for exploiting the joint benefits of local air pollution abatement and GHG emissions reduction, and for
examining the trade-offs between them. The city has also embarked on a number of initiatives for improving
air quality which provide a rich diversity of technologies and regulatory interventions to be studied under the
proposed project.
2.      In Tehran, urban transport operations consume an estimated 2.0 million tons of gasoline/diesel fuel per
year, releasing about 6 million tons of C02; transport operations generate almost as much carbon emissions per
capita (0.7 tons p.a.) in Tehran as in Mexico City (0.9 tons p.a.) which suffers from one of the worst air
pollution situations in the world. For instance, the maximum 8-hour average for CO concentrations was 100
ppm (in 1987) which is about 10 times above the WHO Guidelines of 9 ppm and considerably worse than the
situation in Mexico City. Partly, this high level of carbon emissions is due to a weak public transport system,
causing an excessive reliance on the automobile which accounts for about 60 percent of all passenger trips in the
city. By way of comparison, in Mexico City the automobile accounts for less than 30 percent of passenger
trips. Historically low fuel prices in Iran, while promoting the use of automobiles, have also reduced the
incentives for introducing fuel efficient technologies. Existing cars in the fleet are inefficient due to older
engine designs (fuel consumption 50 percent higher on average than more up-to-date technologies), and lack of
maintenance, with about 40 percent of the fleet being in such poor condition that they can no longer be tuned-up
without replacement of some engine components.
3.      An environmental action plan under preparation for Iran, identifies air pollution in Tehran as a key
environmental issue for the country. Since local air pollution abatement would be a joint product of the
Greenhouse Gas (GHG)' abatement measures identified under the project, Tehran's deteriorating air pollution
situation, and obsolete transport technology which is typical of those found in many developing countries,
provide a perfect setting for this pilot GEF project. Background studies for the Environmental Action Plan have
been completed and it is expected that the Plan itself will be formulated during calendar 1994, and therefore this
GEF project will be able to provide timely inputs to that process.
1/     Local air pollutants include: carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, ozone non-methane
hydrocarbons, sulfur oxides, lead and suspended particulate matter. Automotive-related
greenhouse gases are mainly carbon dioxide as well as methane, and nitrous oxides.



- 2 -
4.      The primary cause of air pollution in Tehran is the exhaust from about 1.4 million motor vehicles,
including about 0.5 million motorcycles, operating in an extremely congested road space; it is estimated that
between 70 and 80 percent of total emissions in the Greater Tehran area are related to urban transport
operations. Reported average concentrations of pollutants such as carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen dioxide
(NO2) in central Tehran in 1986 were two to three times maximum average levels recommended by WHO, and
growth in traffic over the last five years has made the situation even more severe. The problem is compounded
by topographical (mountains to the north and east) and climatological factors (frequent temperature inversions),
which favor photochemical transformation of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) to
produce smog and tropospheric ozone, and there is reason to believe that Tehran suffers from high ozone
concentration levels.
Rationale for GEF Funding
5.      Transportation energy use in developing countries is rapidly becoming a critical issue. Recent
projections by the US Department of Energy indicate that the overwhelming majority (80 percent) of growth in
world oil consumption to the year 2010 could come from developing countries. For the 15 largest developing
countries about 50 percent of the growth in oil consumption in the 1970 to 1984 period has been in
transportation. There are good reasons for selecting Tehran as the first city to address urban transport related
greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. Tehran is a highly polluted city with considerable potential for low
cost interventions that would reduce both GHG emissions and local air pollutants. Tehran Municipality has a
rich diversity of transport related developments planned or under implementation, and these provide a good
opportunity for a pilot program such as this to develop the methodological basis and information base necessary
to introduce emission reduction concerns into standard urban transport planning practices. Further, the Islamic
Republic of Iran is strongly committed to addressing global climate change issues, and is a signatory (June 14,
1992) to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Project Objectives
6.      With the support of GEF funding, authorities in Tehran will assess measures, including efficient pricing
of inputs and urban transport services, that would reduce GHG emissions from vehicular traffic, while
simultaneously improving local air quality. GHG abatement can be achieved through a variety of measures, all
of which will produce some reductions in local air pollution. The GEF project would identify a schedule of
measures. to achieve a target air quality improvement, which serve both objectives at the lowest incremental
cost for GHG abatement. Such a schedule of GHG abatement maximizing measures, and the associated
incremental costs, will provide decision makers with the information necessary to design a program of local air
pollution abatement that simultaneously, and cost effectively, addresses global warming concerns.
Project Description
7.      The project will be a joint effort between Tehran Municipality and the GEF to study options for future
development of the Tehran transport system in an environmentally sustainable manner. The GEF contribution
will enable the study to address concerns related to global warming which would otherwise not receive priority
1rom a national perspective. The Tehran Municipality contribution of 50 percent of the project cost reflects the
local air pollution benefits which will result from GHG abatement measures. Joint financing is provided for as
this is a "type 3" project under the GEF criteria, ie. a project which is justified in the country context, but the
country would need to incur additional costs to bring about additional global benefits, as opposed to a project
that can only be justified on global benefit grounds. The following provides brief details on the project
components.



- 3 -
(a)     Emissions Inventory & Air Quality Monitoring: (i) Development of emissions estimates,
covering both mobile and stationary sources, for those pollutants (GHG and conventional)
emitted by transport operations; (ii) Specification of the air quality monitoring system to be
used in assessments of air quality changes; and (iii) Establishment of baseline air quality data,
and target air quality standards.
(b)     Traffic Management & Restraint: (i) Estimation of an appropriate travel modal shift model,
calibrated for Tehran; (ii) Estimation of emission factors associated with various transport
modes under various operating conditions; (iii) Development of a transport model for all urban
transport modes to assess potential emission reductions; and (iv) Assessment of traffic
management strategies, including parking management, with respect to air quality impacts.
(c)     Vehicle Fleet & Fuels Improvement: (i) Design of a comprehensive policy for accelerated
fleet renewal; (ii) Enhancement of Tehran's Inspection/Maintenance and tune-up program,
aimed at establishment of effective emissions tests; (iii) Study of the feasibility of introducing
alternative fuels such as natural gas, and higher quality fuels such as reformulated gasoline;
and (iv) development of a program to introduce Emission Standards for new vehicles, which
take into account target air quality standards.
(d)     Strategic Urban Transport Emissions Reduction Planning: (i) Identification of costs and
impacts of various pollution abatement measures including economic pricing of energy supplies
and transport services and the associated elasticities. Costs will include implementation, user
costs, and other public and private costs - "supply curves" showing the costs of various
interventions per unit of GHG/local pollutant emission reduction would be developed; (ii)
Analysis of institutional and other constraints to implementation of options; (iii) Synthesis of
the results in an evaluation framework; and (iv) Preparation of implementation plan.
(e)     Project Support and Transport & Air Quality Seminar: funding of administrative support
and of a seminar to present the results and obtain public comment on the measures proposed.
(f)     International Panel of Experts (IPE): Funding of fees and travel expenses for a panel of four
international experts in the fields of air pollution measurement and impact assessment,
transportation fuels, vehicle technology and emission controls, and urban transport planning.
A more detailed project description is in the Technical Annex (para. 4.12).
Global Environmental Benefits
8.      The project would quantify the costs of various interventions to reduce greenhouse gas and local air
pollutant emissions from urban transport in a setting characterized by in-use technologies that are typical for
non-industrialized and newly industrializing countries. This information should prove invaluable in guiding
policy decisions for urban transport development in developing countries and to the work of international bodies
dealing with climate change issues. Secondarily, the project would assist the Tehran Municipality and GOIRI in
embarking on urban transport policies which are environmentally sustainable from a local and global standpoint.



-4-
Project Implementation
9.     Tehran Municipality will execute the project which would be implemented in three phases. In Phase 1,
the International Panel of Experts (Component F) would specify the studies to be carried out in detail, and
prepare Terms of Reference for the studies. In Phase 11, Components A, B and C would be undertaken. Upon
satisfactory completion of all Phase II studies, the strategic planning studies, Component D would be initiated in
Phase III. Consultants will be engaged to assist in implementing Components A, B, C and D of the project.
The consultants will be managed by a project office within the Department of Transport and Traffic (DTT),
Tehran Municipality, which will also coordinate the various agencies involved in project implementation, i.e.,
the Air Quality Control Co., the Tehran Vehicle Technical Inspection Bureau, and the Tehran Comprehensive
Transportation and Traffic Studies Project. A Project Advisory Group comprising representatives of the
Ministry of Oil, the Department of Environment and other national agencies would also be established to guide
the project. Component F of the project will be implemented by Tehran Municipality by engaging the experts
as individual consultants.
Proiect Sustainability and Replicabilitv
10.    It is expected that the recommendations of these studies will be incorporated into the future investment
plan for urban transport development in Tehran. Sustainability will depend on the implementation of the
investments/policy measures identified. In particular, petroleum pricing policies adopted by GOIRI will be key
to achieving energy efficiency improvements. This project would also contribute to the preparation of
environmentally sustainable urban transport investment projects to be financed by the Bank in various
developing countries.
Project Risks
11.    Given the strong comnmitment of GOIRI and Tehran Municipality to this project, no specific issues or
risks are foreseen in the actual implementation of the project, other than the normal implementation risks of a
program of studies. There is however some risk that the level of inter-ministerial coordination necessary to
generate solutions that are institutionally feasible may not be forthcoming. To address this concern, the project
design requires that Tehran Municipality establish (with GOIRI's support) a Project Advisory Group (PAG) with
representation from seven agencies/ministries involved in various aspects of environmental regulation, transport
energy supplies, health and the transport industry. UNDP, Tehran will also be represented in the PAG.
Ajgreements Reached
12.    During negotiations the Bank reached with GOIRI and Tehran Municipality that there would be:
(a)     An undertaking in the GET Grant Agreement that GOIRI will take all actions necessary on its
part for the establishment and functioning of the PAG.
(b)     An undertaking in the Project Agreement that Tehran Municipality will establish for the project
a bank account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Withdrawals from such account will be made only to pay for project costs. The Municipality
will make deposits in Rials into such account at such times and in such amounts as the Bank
deems necessary, up to an aggregate maximum of the Rial equivalent of US$2 million.



- 5 -
(c)    A condition of effectiveness in the GET Grant Agreement that a subsidiary grant agreement,
on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, shall have been executed by GOIRI and Tehran
Municipality.
(d)    A condition of effectiveness in the GET Grant Agreement that Tehran Municipality shall have
established the bank account referred to in (b) above, and shall have made an initial deposit
therein of the Rial equivalent of at least US$500,000.
Attachments






Schedule A
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
Expected Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
Estimated Cost:
Foreign     Local    Total
…------- (USS '000)…-------
A. Emissions Inventory &
Air Quality Monitoring
i) Studies                               400         400      800
ii) Equipment                             300         300      600
B. Traffic Management & Restraint Studies        300        300       600
C. Vehicle Fleet & Fuels Improvement Studies   350          200       550
D. Strategic Urban Transport Emissions
Reduction Planning                         400         400      800
E. Project Support and Transport Emissions
& Air Quality Seminar                                  400      400
F. International Panel of Experts                250                  250
Totals          2000        2000     4000
Financing Plan:
Foreign    Local    Total
…--- (UsS '000)…------
GET Grant                                       2000                 2000
Tehran Municipality                                        2000      2000
Totals          2000        2000     4000



Schedule B
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF' IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
Procurement
The following procurement methods will apply to Components A, B, C, D,
and F of the project: All contracts for goods of a value of US$50,000 or
greater will be awarded through International Shopping on the basis of price
quotations from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries. Contracts below US$50,000 will be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three local suppliers.
All procurement of goods will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Procurement of consultant services will follow the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants.
Table 1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000)
Procurement Method                      Total
Project Element                 ICB     LCB      Other       N.G.F. a/    Cost
1.  Goods                        -        -       300         300          600
(300)                   (300)
2.  Consultancies                -        -      3000b/       400a/      3400
(1700)                  (1700)
Total                            -        -      3300         700         4000
(2000)                  (2000)
NGF (Non-Grant Financed): Those amounts to be financed by Tehran
Municipality and to which Bank procurement procedures do not apply.
Services will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the Use
of Consultants. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by the GET Grant.



Table 2(a). Disbursement Categories and Amounts
% of
Amount of the             Expenditures
CateQory                    GET Grant Allocated         to be financed
(1)   Goods                             SDR 180,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(2)   Consultants' services           SDR 1,220,000           100%- of foreign
expenditures
(3)   Unallocated                       SDR 100,000
TOTAL                     SDR 1,500,000
Table 2(b). Estimated Schedule of Grant Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
1994       1995       1996
Annual                                    0.80       1.00        0.20
Cumulative                                0.80       1.80       2.00



Schedule C
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:              18 months
(b)   Staff Preparing the Project         George Tharakan, Task Manager, MN2IN
Zissis Samaras, Consultant
Kumares C. Sinha, Consultant
Viren Sirohi, Consultant
(c)   First Bank Mission                  January 1992
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departure         May 1993
(e)   Negotiations                        August and September 1993
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness       October 30, 1993
(g)   Summary Supervision Plan                         FY1994  FY1995  FY1996
Staffing       (----Staff Weeks----)
Transp. Spec.   8        8        8
Env. Spec.       7       7        7
(h)   Relevant PCRs or PPARs              Not applicable



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Paae No.
I.  INTRODUCTION  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
II.  TRANSPORT EMISSIONS & THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT . . . . . . .     2
III.  TEHRAN'S URBAN TRANSPORT SYSTEM . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
A. The Urban Transport Fleet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
B. Urban Transport Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
Traffic Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
Demand Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
Parking Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9
Bus Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9
C. Vehicle Technology .10
Engine Technology and Emission Controls  . . . . . .     10
Domestic Automotive Production . . . . . . . . . . .     11
D.   Fuels  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
E. Air Pollution Situation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11
Emission Sources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
Air Pollution Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
F. Policies Affecting Urban Transport . . . . . . . . . .     13
Fuel  Pricing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
Provision of Public Transit  . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
Land Use Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     14
G. Urban Transport Development Plans  . . . . . . . . . .     14
The Tehran Metro .14
Trolley Bus System .15
Tehran Traffic Control Center  . . . . . . . . . . .     15
Dedicated Bus Lanes .15
Air Quality Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
Tehran Vehicle Technical Inspection Bureau . . . . .     16
Conversion of Taxis to LPG . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
Conversion of Urban Buses to LPG . . . . . . . . . .     17
Tehran Comprehensive Transportation and Traffic Studies   17
Department of Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Iran
in May, 1993. Mission members included Messrs. George Tharakan (Task Manager,
MN2IN) and Viren Sirohi (Consultant).



Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Pace No.
IV.  THE GEF PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           18
A. Project Objective  ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  18
B. Key issues to be Addressed . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           18
C. Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           20
D. Organization & Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . .           23
Project Advisory Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          23
International Panel of Experts (IPE) . . . . . . . .          24
Project Budget ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Procurement  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Disbursements & Special Account  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .   .  25
Project Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          25
V. PROJECT BENEFITS .25
Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          26
Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          26
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           26
Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          26
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment  I  -  Project Advisory Group  . . . . . . . . . . .           27
Attachment II  -  Terms of Reference  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           29
MAP: IBRD Map No. 25050.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1             Urban transport  in the rapidly growing cities of developing
countries is of considerable concern from a global warming viewpoint.
Worldwide, transport sector contributions to the greenhouse effect have been
estimated to be on the order of 12 to 15 percent of total emissions of all
greenhouse gases (GHG), and about 30 percent of GHG emissions from the use of
fossil fuels. Within the sector, motor vehicles account for a majority of GHG
emissions (about 80 percent). While developing countries as a group now
account for only a small portion (2 to 3 percent) of transport related GHG
emissions (see Table 1), they are responsible for a disproportionate share of
increases in these emissions due to increases in automobile use and the
continued use of obsolete, fuel-inefficient automotive technologies. The
global motor vehicle fleet grew by more than 25 percent in the 1980s to a
little under 700 million vehicles, and is expected to grow by more than 30
percent in the 1990s with the majority of this increase expected in the
developing world. Increased motorization in developing countries is closely
linked to the rapid urbanization taking place in these countries, with most
motor vehicles being concentrated in large urban centers.   In countries such
as Iran, Mexico and Thailand which have very significant primate cities, as
much as 50 percent of the motor vehicle fleet may be concentrated in these
cities.
Table 1: Etirmated anthropogenic emiuions of air pollutants and contribution from motor vehicles, 1986-87
Total World                      Estimated Contribution from Motor Vehicles"
Emissions      Quantity     Share of                       Distribution
(miillion    (million    Total World          Other      Eastern Europe    Africa, Latin
metric tons)    metric tons)   Emissions   U.S.A.   OECD   & Central Asia   America & Asia
Greenhouse Gases:
Carbon Dioxide@             5,600          780          14%      38%       31%           9%               22%
CFC@@                        1.11          0.28        255%       n.a.     n.a.          n.a.             n.a.
Conventional Pollutants:
Carbon Monoxide           300-1,600        160        10%-54%    24%       49%           11%              16%
Nitrogen Oxides             68-75          22        29%-32%    28%        47%           11%              14%
Hydrocarbons                55-57          27        47%-49%     30%       43%           12%              15%
Particulate Mster##         57-300         n.a       10%-20%X    n.a.      n.a.          12%#             38%#
Sulfur Oxides              160-180         n.a        2%t-6%#     n.a.     n.a.          15%#             45%#
Lead                         0.33          0.2         60%#      20%#    30%#            18%#             32%1
*       Estimates for greenhouse gases from World Resources Lnstitute (1991) and UNEP (1991); estimates for the conventional pollutants from
GEMS (1988).
Excluding contributions of 2- & 3-wheeled vehicles to conventional pollutants. Estimates of motor vehicle contribution from Gormezeno
(1990), Mackenzie and Walsb (1990), Faiz (1991) and Office of Technology Assessment (1989).
O       From fossil fuel combustion in million metric tons of carbon in 1987.
a*      The quantity of CFCs is the sggregate consumption of CFC-1 I, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114 and CFC-115 in 1986.
t       Order of magnitude estimates, and may deviate from actual figures by 5 to 10 percentage points.
IA'     Particulate maters from fossil fuel combustion only.



1.2         Transport related GHG emissions in developing countries is
therefore closely linked to the conditions of automobile use and of urban
transport in the major cities of these countries. Improving efficiency, and
managing urban transport demand to minimize emissions will require
interventions in a number of inter-related areas: pricing of transport
services and fuels, provision of efficient public transit, maintenance/renewal
of existing vehicle fleets, upgrading domestic vehicle technologies, etc.
This GEF project will study these elements and their linkages, and assess
options for reducing GHG emissions from urban transport operations. Tehran
was selected as the location for these studies for a number of reasons: the
city suffers from severe air pollution for which transport is the primary
cause and therefore a strong potential exists for exploiting the joint
benefits of local air pollution abatement and GHG emissions reduction, and for
examining the trade-offs between them; the city has also embarked on a number
of initiatives for improving air quality which provide a rich diversity of
technologies and regulatory interventions to be studied under the proposed
project.
II. TRANSPORT EMISSIONS & THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
2.1         The study is intended to estimate the emissions of greenhouse
gases from urban transport operations, covering the full fuel-cycle and the
manufacture, assembly and operation of transport equipment. Greenhouse gases
(GHG) generated from transport operations include carbon dioxide (C02), carbon
monoxide (CO), chlorofluorocarbons used in transport equipment (CFC-ll, CFC-
12, CFC-113), methane (CH4), non-methane organic compounds (NMOCs), nitrous
oxide (N20), and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Tropospheric ozone (03), which is
also an important GHG, while not produced directly by motor vehicles, is
generated through interactions among automobile exhaust gases in the
atmosphere. Carbon dioxide and CFC emissions, which typically account for
about 80 percent of total C02-equivalent emissions from transport, are the
most important from a global warming standpoint. Carbon monoxide and oxides
of nitrogen (N20, NOx) make up most of the remaining GHG emissions, with
methane and NMOCs contributing less than 5 percent.
2.2         Carbon dioxide emissions are almost directly proportional to the
amount of fuel consumed - for every kilogram of fuel consumed by a motor
vehicle, about 3 kg of carbon dioxide is released to the atmosphere. There is
considerable scope for reducing motor vehicle energy consumption, and
corresponding C02 emissions, in developing countries - the typical
domestically manufactured car in China, India or Iran is half as fuel
efficient (17 - 20 mpg) as the current best practice in OECD countries (42
mpg). Poor vehicle maintenance and older vehicle fleets in these countries,
also reduce average fuel efficiencies and increase the GHG emissions per
vehicle-km travelled. The developing country motor vehicle fleet is expected
to about double in the 1990s from around 110 million vehicles at the end of
the 1980s to over 200 million vehicles by the year 2000. The annual demand
for motor vehicles in developing countries is expected to increase from around
5 million in 1988 to 16 million in the year 2000, in comparison with only a 10
percent increase in demand expected in OECD countries (see Table 2 below).



-3-
Automotive energy conservation and efficiency improvements in developing
country fleets are therefore clearly important for curbing the growth in
global C02 emissions.
Table 2. Annual Demand for Motor Vehicles, 1988 & 2000 (million vehs)
1988                        2000
Cars Hvw Vehs Total          Cars HVY Vehs Total
OECD Countries                 30       11       41          34     12       46
Eastern Europe                  2        1        3           4       3       7
Developing Countries            3        2        5          11       5      16
Total                          35       14       49          49     20       69
2.3         Chlorofluorocarbons, whilst released in much smaller quantities
than C02, are also of concern due to their much higher impact on global
warming. The Global Warming Potential (GWP) of CFCs has been the subject of
some debate, but it could be as high as 2000 times that of C02, ie. one ton of
CFC in the atmosphere being equivalent to 2000 tons of C02. Presently, global
CFC emissions from motor vehicles is estimated to be about 0.3 million tons or
600 million tons carbon equivalent, which is three-quarters of the estimated
emissions of C02 from transport. CFCs are used in transport as a working
fluid for air-conditioners (CFC-12), in foam seats, padding and insulation
(CFC-ll), and as a cleaning solvent for electronic components (CFC-113).
Motor vehicles consume about 25 percent of CFCs produced worldwide, however,
the contribution of developing countries to CFC use in motor vehicles is still
low due to most cars not being equipped with air-conditioning. As incomes
increase, the potential exists for rapid increases in CFC use in motor
vehicles, unless measures are taken to forestall this through the introduction
of substitutes. In this connection it should be noted that some of the
promising substitutes (eg. HCFC-22, HFC-34a) being considered in connection
with the Montreal Protocol to protect the ozone layer, while less damaging to
stratospheric ozone, are however active greenhouse gases.
2.4         Improving fuel efficiency, cleaning-up automotive exhausts, and
managing transport demand more effectively, will in general reduce both GHG
emissions and emissions of local air pollutants 1. For instance, the
introduction of catalytic converters, and the unleaded fuels needed to do
this, will simultaneously reduce both local pollutants (eg. lead, CO), and GHG
emissions (eg. CH4, NOx and NMOCs). These joint benefits are likely to
provide the strongest incentives for actions to reduce GHG emissions.
However, some interventions to reduce local air pollution may result in an
increase in GHG emissions. Examples of such conflicting interventions are the
use of substitute fuels under certain circumstances: eg. electric vehicles
1/    Local air pollutants include: carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides,
non-methane hydrocarbons, sulfur oxides, lead and suspended particulate
matter.



- 4 -
where the primary fuel for electricity production is coal, or ethanol fuels
where ethanol is produced from corn for which full fuel-cycle analyses
indicate an increase in the overall C02 emission levels over gasoline powered
vehicles.
2.5         Policy makers in developing countries need to be informed about
these synergies and potential conflicts between various options for reducing
local air pollution and GHG emissions. Information, and the tools needed to
develop this information in specific situations, are a necessary pre-requisite
to informed policy analysis and decision making. Serving the dual objectives
of local air pollution abatement and GHG emissions reduction will sometimes
involve an incremental cost over the costs entailed in addressing the former
objective alone. The magnitude of these increased costs, and the changes in
the mix of interventions needed to formulate an effective strategy to address
both objectives simultaneously, will be of considerable interest.   Such
information will be particularly useful if it is found that small increases in
national costs will allow the adoption of strategies that are of much greater
value to the global community. Figure 1 depicts an evaluation framework for
such an assessment.
2.6         Due to the difficulties entailed in quantifying the benefits of
air pollution abatement, the evaluation framework shown in Figure 1 relies
instead on the least cost to achieve target air quality improvements to assess
various strategies. The mix of policies that result in the least cost to
achieve a given level of emissions reduction, measured in tons of carbon
equivalent emissions, determines the optimal strategy. A schedule of policy/
investment options (l.. .n) is first developed and costed to provide the types
of information shown at the top of Figure 1. For each option, the cost per
ton of local and GHG emissions reduction, "cn" and "gn" respectively, would be
calculated. Supply curves for each would then be constructed by rank ordering
the options by their respective costs for local and GHG emissions reduction.
A total cost curve for local air pollution abatement could then be prepared
from which the cost of a given level of local air pollution abatement could be
determined as shown at the bottom of Figure 1. A different total cost curve
for local pollution abatement could also be constructed from the supply curve
of GHG emission reductions; this total cost curve however is based on rank
ordering the options to maximize GHG reductions. This procedure is only
feasible because any option with a finite cost "gn" must also have a finite
cost "cn"; the converse is not true, ie. some options will have no GHG
abatement benefits thereby causing "gn" to be infinite even though their "cn"
is finite.
2.7         The divergence between the two total cost curves is the additional
cost of GHG abatement at any given target for local air quality. There could
be an initial reduction in local air pollution which simultaneously maximizes
GHG reduction, for a given level of expenditure, without any increase in local
air pollution abatement costs; this initial set of policies are sometimes
referred to as "no regrets policies", ie. the local and global objectives
coincide.   If the targeted air quality levels are below the "no regrets"
point (see Figure 1), then no additional costs need be incurred to achieve the
maximum GHG reduction possible at that level of expenditure for local air



-5-
Figure 1: Methodology for Assessing Strategy
SCHEDULE OF POLICIES AND ABATEMENT IMPACTS
Tons of            Cost/Ton        Tons of    Cost/Ton
Policy      Local Poll          Local Poll         GHG          GHG
l            T1                 cl              G11 C
2            T2                 C2              G2          g2
3            T3                 C3              G3          93
K            Tk                 Ck              0           00
N            Tn                 Cn              Gn          gn
POLLUTION ABATEMENT SUPPLY CURVE
Cost                                                   Local Pollution
Cost                                       1 4   1Abatement
per
ton
|    a  2   3  |  L_ .r Z.   Greenhouse Gas
_ _ _ |_ X   .Abatement
_ r
Ambient    I          Emission
air qualityl          reduction (G or T)
target
ABATEMENT TOTAL COST CURVE
J ;   z Greenhouse
Total                                                /        gas abatement
Cost                                              /           maximizing
/       ' /2-  Local pollution
abatement
maximizing
No regrets *
policies



- 6 -
pollution abatement. To achieve air quality improvements beyond this point,
policy makers would have to choose between a set of options which minimize
costs (Options 1, 2 and 3 in Figure 1) versus a set of policies which achieve
the same level of local air pollution abatement and also maximize GHG emission
reductions (Options 1, 3 and 4 in Figure 1) albeit at some increase in total
costs.
2.8         Establishment of appropriate targets for air quality improvements
would also therefore be an essential element of policy formulation for GHG
abatement, since these targets determine the level of excess costs incurred.
Such targets may be adopted from those already developed in the industrialized
countries, but it is preferable that some thought be given to local conditions
and the feasibility of achieving a target over a specified period of time. It
may be advantageous to establish a phased program whereby improvements in air
quality are to be accomplished over say a 10-year horizon. once such a set of
targets has been established, the emission reductions needed from various
sources, stationary and mobile, would need to be derived for use in the
evaluation framework described above. Derivation of the emission reduction
levels needed to achieve specified air quality targets is a non-trivial
exercise requiring the use of sophisticated air-quality models, and research
is needed to adapt existing methodologies to the conditions of developing
countries. The proposed project would undertake the establishment of such
methodologies and their application to Tehran as a test case.
III. TEHRAN'S URBAN TRANSPORT SYSTEM
3.1         Tehran's air pollution problem has been identified by the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran (GOIRI) as a high priority
environmental and health issue. An important cause of air pollution is the
exhaust from about 1.4 million motor vehicles, including about 0.5 million
motorcycles, operating in an extremely congested road space (average vehicle
speeds below 18 kmph); it is estimated that between 70 to 80 percent of total
emissions in the Greater Tehran area are related to urban transport
operations. Reported average concentrations of pollutants such as carbon
monoxide (CO) and nitrogen dioxide (N02) in central Tehran in 1986 were two to
three times maximum average levels recommended by WHO, and growth in traffic
over the last five years has made the situation even more severe. The problem
is compounded by topographical (mountains to the north and east) and
climatological factors (sunshine, frequent temperature inversions), which
favor photochemical transformation of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and
nitrogen oxides (NOx) to produce smog and tropospheric ozone, and there is
reason to believe that Tehran suffers from high ozone concentration levels.
3.2         Urban transport in Tehran provides an excellent opportunity for
studying the issues described above, and identifying cost effective options
for reducing the global warming impacts of transport emissions. Tehran's
vehicles consume an estimated 2.0 million tons of gasoline/diesel fuel per
year, releasing about 6 million tons of C021 transport operations generate
almost as much carbon emissions per capita (0.7 tons p.a./capita) in Tehran as
in Mexico City (0.9 tons p.a./ capita) which suffers from one of the worst air



-7-
pollution situations in the world. Tehran's per capita transport related
carbon emissions are three times the average per capita carbon emissions from
all energy use for developing countries in Asia (0.19 ton p.c. in 1985).
Partly, this high level of C02 emissions is due to a weak public transport
system, causing an excessive reliance on the automobile which accounts for
about 60 percent of all passenger trips in the city. By way of comparison, in
Mexico City the automobile accounts for less than 30 percent of passenger
trips. Historically low fuel prices while promoting the use of automobiles,
have also reduced the incentives for introducing fuel efficient transport
technologies. Existing cars in the fleet are inefficient due to older engine
designs (fuel consumption 50 percent higher on average), and lack of
maintenance, with about 40 percent of the fleet being in so poor condition
that they can no longer be tuned-up without replacement of some engine
components. Tehran's deteriorating air pollution situation, and obsolete
transport technology which is typical of many developing countries, provides a
perfect setting for a pilot GEF project, such as this, to address the global
warming problem caused by inefficient, and rapidly expanding, urban transport
operations in developing countries.
A. THE URBAN TRANSPORT FLEET
3.3         It is estimated that there are about 0.75 million passenger cars
and light duty trucks (< 3.5 t) in the Greater Tehran area. Around 0.5 million
passenger cars, on average, are operating on any given day, each making 8.9
trips/day with an occupancy of 1.96 passengers, and the total passenger trips
generated is around 8.5 million pax-trips/day. Light duty trucks number about
60,000, and make on average 5.4 trips/day with an occupancy of 1.6, generating
an additional 0.5 million pax-trips/day. In total, passenger cars and light
duty trucks account for about 9 million (51 percent) of an estimated total of
about 17.5 million pax-trips generated each day in the city.
3.4         In addition to the above passenger cars, there are about 20,000
taxis which operate either as share taxis on a fixed route, or as regular
taxis.  The former charge a fixed fare per passenger (Rials 200) irrespective
of distance.  It was estimated (1990) that there are on average 9000 active
taxis operating on a given day, with each generating 175 pax-trips/day, for a
total of 1.6 million pax-trips/day.  Passenger cars, light trucks and taxis
therefore account for about 60 percent of all passenger trips in the city.
3.5         The number of motorcycles in the city is not known precisely;
there are about 350,000 registered motorcycles, but it is estimated that the
total number could be as high as 600,000. Based on an average of 7.5
trips/day and an occupancy of 1.5, it is estimated that motorcycles generate
about 2.7 million pax-trips each day.
3.6         Buses and mini-buses account for an additional 4.2 million pax-
trips per day. There are about 3500 buses and a similar number of mini-buses,
though the latter are planned to be phased out as larger buses become
available. Public transit services (bus and mini-bus) therefore account for
less than a quarter (24 percent) of total passenger trips.



3.7         It is estimated that there are about 20,000 heavy trucks in the
Greater Tehran area, and about 2000 of these are government owned. About 60
percent of goods imported to Iran pass through Tehran for distribution to
other parts of the country. Much of the truck traffic could be bypassed
around the city if freight distribution facilities were available on the
periphery, and heavy trucks could be kept away from the city center by using
smaller trucks for urban goods delivery. Several distribution centers for
goods are currently being planned for construction along the periphery of the
city. For instance, one such center for fruit & vegetable distribution is
being located to the south of the city.
B.  URBAN TRANSPORT OPERATIONS
3.8         At present little or no data exist on capacities or traffic
volumes on various road sections in the city. However, visual observations
indicate that a high level of congestion takes place during most of the day,
particularly in the city center. Average vehicle speeds are said to be below
18 kmph in this Central Business District (CBD) area. There are several E-W
and N-S arteries that operate at or near capacity, with the E-W corridors
carrying somewhat more traffic. Bottlenecks are common at intersections which
are not designed for high volume flow, and many major intersections are
roundabouts. Also, poor enforcement of traffic regulations results in
frequent disruptions.
Traffic Management
3.9         In order to manage the spiralling growth of traffic in Tehran, the
city center was designated as a restricted traffic area about a decade ago.
This area, covering about 23 sq.km. (see map attached), is the focus of
current and planned traffic management schemes. Presently, about 10 percent
of the vehicles in Tehran have been issued stickers which allow them to access
this area during restricted hours (0630 to 1330 hrs). About two-thirds of
these permitted vehicles are Government owned vehicles, another 12 percent are
physician's cars and the remainder include taxis and other vehicles. Each
permit costs between Rials 30,000 and 300,000 per year depending on the type
of user. A survey conducted 5 years ago indicated that about 3.5 million
daily passenger-trips were either originated or destined in this area. In
addition, there is a larger area, covering about half the city, where truck
restrictions apply. In this area only about 10 percent of the truck fleet can
enter during restricted hours (0500 to 2100 hrs). No restrictions are placed
on motorcycles throughout the city. Although no data exist, traffic personnel
of TM believe that these restrictions have significantly reduced automotive
traffic in the city center.
Demand Management
3.10        In order to manage peak demand on road facilities, a staggered
work hours program was instituted in Tehran about two years ago. The program
called for separation of educational (school), government, and commercial
start times (0700,0800,0900 hrs respectively), but was abandoned when found to



-9-
be too rigid for most needs (eg. dropping school children off could not be
combined with the work trip). Alternative programs can be pursued,
particularly employer based and flexi-time programs, which have been found to
be successful in many countries.
Parking Management
3.11        A major component of an urban transport system is parking, and
this aspect appears not to have received much attention in Tehran so far.
Much can be accomplished through careful controls on the amount and pricing of
parking facilities. At present, most of the streets in the city center allow
on-street parking, and zoning codes discourage or even prevent the
construction of multi-story off-street parking. As a result considerable road
space is lost, and traffic separation/discipline is adversely affected. Any
future program of traffic management should include development of a detailed
parking management scheme for the city center as a high priority.
Bus Operations
3.12        Urban bus services in Tehran are provided by the United Bus
Co.(UBC), a government subsidized public sector company. There are 3500 buses
in the UBC fleet, 73 percent of which are 16 or more years old. All units are
diesel powered (see LPG conversion below). The number of buses operating each
day on the road is about 2500. The level of maintenance, as evidenced by
observed emissions, of most of the buses is poor. The age, poor condition,
along with overcrowding and high N-S gradients found in the city, cause the
buses to emit a high level of air pollutants. There are 151 bus routes with a
total route length of 1800 km. Average bus speed is about 10 kmph. Total
current ridership is about 3 million passengers/day which is up 32 percent
since 1991. A Park & Ride facility (2000 cars), served by express bus
service, located to the east of the restricted CBD area has proved successful,
and three more such facilities are planned to the north, south and west. Bus
fares currently are very low, Rls 10 for regular service and Rls 50 for
express service. Parking in the Park & Ride costs Rls 200. The operating
cost of regular bus service has been estimated at Rls 60 per passenger trip
(July 1992), and according to this estimate the tariff covers only one-sixth
of costs. This cost analysis however used the old official exchange rate (Rls
70/US$, now abolished) to value foreign exchange costs. Using a more market
related exchange rate (eg. the old floating rate, Rls 1430/US$) would increase
the cost per trip to about three times the estimate2. There are about 3500
mini-buses in Tehran. However, they are being phased out and replaced with
regular buses in view of the difficult congestion situation in the city. The
current public transport system is poorly integrated, and in the future it is
expected that with the development of other mass transit modes (see below) a
more integrated service can be offered to effect a significant shift away from
private automobile use.
2/    The exchange rate has since been unified and presently all transactions
are valued at RlB 1600 to US$1.



- 10 -
C. VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY
3.13        The major characteristic of all vehicle sub-fleets in Tehran is
their high average age. The mission estimated the average age of the
passenger car fleet to be 15 years, and the trend is to higher average age.
According to data from the United Bus Co., the average age of the bus fleet is
also high, exceeding 16 years. As regards the composition of the passenger
car & light duty truck fleet, there are a limited number of vehicle types:
based on domestic production data about 73 percent of the fleet is medium size
cars(l.4 to 2.0 lt engine), mostly Paykan (1600 cc Hillman Hunter engine), and
20 percent small size cars, mostly Saipa/ Renault 5 (1100 cc engine). The
rest being distributed among a number of other locally produced vehicles (eg.
Mazda pick-ups, Land Rover, Peugeot 504, etc.). About 90 percent of the
motorcycles in use are of domestic manufacture, and of those larger than 50
cc, most are Honda (4-stroke) or Yamaha (2-stroke), while those less than 50
cc are all 2-stroke (eg. Vespa, Bravo, Peugeot, etc.). The bus fleet consists
mainly of locally produced Iran-Mercedes Benz (0302) which make up 65 percent
of the total, and imported vehicles (Mercedes Benz, Ikarus, Volvo) make up the
remainder. Three types of mini-buses (FIAT, IVECO, Mercedes Benz) are locally
produced. No data exist on the composition of the heavy duty truck fleet,
however, the fleet consists of a large variety of imported and locally
produced trucks.
Engine Technology and Emission Controls
3.14        As more than 90 percent of Tehran's vehicle fleet consists of the
above-mentioned types produced locally under license, the engine technology of
the in-use fleet is mostly of European technology from the early 1960s (the
Paykan produced since 1966, the Renault since 1977). This means that no
emission controls at all are used, and fuel efficiency is poor (low
compression, no engine modifications). Therefore it is believed that the so-
called pre-ECE emission levels of the European cars are most representative of
the actual emissions of the Tehran fleet. A preliminary calculation using EC
COPERT903 suggests the following representative emission and fuel consumption
factors for the light vehicle fleet of Tehran:
CO:  63 g/km    HC: 5.2 g/km    NOx: 1.7 g/km   Fuel Cons: 18.1 lt/lOOkm
The above assume an average speed of 18 kmph and includes cold start and
evaporative emissions (in the case of HC) and do not account for altitude and
slope effects. The CO, HC, and fuel consumption figures above are
particularly disturbing: a well tuned conventional engine of the 1970s could
generate about 40 percent less CO and HC, and the fuel consumption could be on
the order of 12 lt/100 km.
3/    European Community's "Computer Program to Calculate Emissions from Road
Traffic".



- 11 -
Domestic Automotive Production
3.15        In Iran there are 10 manufacturers of road vehicles, and 3
manufacturers of engines. As regards the production of light vehicles, while
capacity exists to produce 150,000 vehicles per year, the actual yearly output
now is about 25,000. Plans are also underway to manufacture more modern
vehicles, and it was noted that these vehicles are of the latest European
conventional technology with regard to emission controls. The studies planned
under this project would also examine the regulatory and tariff constraints on
the importation of more efficient transport equipment and technologies.
D. FUELS
3.16        The mission estimated fuel consumption in Greater Tehran to be 1.6
million tons of normal (87 octane rating) gasoline and 350,000 t of diesel for
transportation, which is about a quarter of the total fuel consumption in the
country. Motor cycles in Tehran account for about 1.5 million liters out of
the total 6-7 million liters of fuel sold daily. Only a minor quantity (about
6000 kl) of super (high octane number) gasoline was consumed, which is a
further indication of the poor fuel efficiency of the in-use vehicle fleet.
The quality of fuels is also rather poor: 2.11 g/gal (or 0.56 g/l) lead
content in the gasoline, and 1 percent by weight sulphur content in the
diesel. Fuel volatility is also high, and the mission estimated the Reid
Vapor Pressure to be 90/80 kPa. (winter/summer). There is a need to introduce
independent testing of fuels.
3.17        A recent attempt to introduce unleaded gasoline was not accepted
by consumers partly because the fuel had a low octane rating which caused
engine knocking. Only 2 percent of petroleum sales in the Tehran area is
unleaded gasoline, and this low level is also due to difficulties in supply
and lack of education about the advantages of unleaded gasoline. The Ministry
of Oil plans to phase out leaded gasoline by 1996. They are planning to
install two units for MTBE production which will be used to provide additives
for unleaded gasoline. The Ministry of Oil also plans to export surplus MTBE
from these facilities which indicates sufficient supplies of MTBE will be
available in the future. Efforts are also being made to introduce LPG for use
by fleet vehicles (see paras 3.34 & 3.35).
E. AIR POLLUTION SITUATION
3.18        According to available air quality data, the city of Tehran facea
severe pollution from CO, suspended particulate matter (SPM), sulfur dioxide
(S02), airborne lead (7 ug/m3 yearly average) and N02, and the levels often
exceed WHO Guidelines. Average annual concentrations of S02 and SPM have
ranged between 30 to 200 percent and 200 to 800 percent, respectively, of
WHO Guidelines. Although no recent measurements of ozone are available, it is
strongly believed that photochemical episodes occur frequently. The topography
of the city (mountains to the north and east, and flat terrain to the south
and west), wind direction and speed (calm most of the time with mild winds



- 12 -
from the west/northwest), sunshine (35.4N latitude), and frequent temperature
inversions (about 260 in one year, usually occurring during the night and
lasting till mid-morning) provide the necessary conditions for photochemical
transformation of the high VOC and NOx concentrations to produce tropospheric
ozone.
Emission Sources
3.19         To date no emission inventory exists for Tehran.  Apart from road
traffic, all of the "traditional" emission sources are to be found around the
city: industries (metal and chemical factories situated mostly upwind to the
west of the city, and a refinery to the south), as well as small factories
located throughout the city. The city authorities, based on a theoretical
approach, estimate that road traffic is responsible for 70 to 80 percent of
the overall emissions, while the rest is attributed to industrial and
residential emissions. The annual road traffic emissions for Tehran
(reference year 1990) are estimated to be: CO 750 kt; VOC 90 kt; NOx 25 kt;
Lead 1 kt; S02 5 kt; and Particulates 0.9 kt. Greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions were estimated based on fuel consumption (including industrial
activities) in the urban agglomeration of Tehran in 1989, and taking into
account the estimates with regard to road traffic, emissions of C02 were
estimated to be as follows:
Estimated C02 Emissions in Tehran (1989)
Consumption (kt)  C02 Emissions (kt)
Gasoline                      1459                 3200
Diesel                        2473                 7800
of which transport             250                  800
Kerosene                      1099                 3500
Heavy Fuel                     984                 3000
Note: No data for natural gas consumption are included.
The above indicates that road traffic accounts for approximately 23 percent of
the C02 emissions, however, the total does not include natural gas which is
used by nearly three quarters of Tehran households for cooking and heating.
Apart from C02, the other greenhouse gases are also emitted in minor
quantities by road traffic in Tehran, eg. CH4 3.7 kt, N20 0.1 kt.
Air Pollution Monitoring
3.20        Ambient concentrations of a number of pollutants are
systematically monitored by the following institutions:
*   The Department of Environment operates one (used to be 5 in 1991)
station measuring CO, NOx and S02 ambient concentrations (until
recently total hydrocarbons and suspended particulates were also
measured).



- 13 -
*   The Ministry of Health operates 10 stations, monitoring S02, TSP,
smoke, lead, and CO, in the framework of WHO's GEMS program.
*   Ministry of Oil operates 2 stations (one mobile), monitoring S02,
N02, particulates, sulfation rates, haze, and meteorological data.
*   The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran measures trace elements
(eg. lead, etc.).
Health impact studies have shown high lead concentrations in the blood of
Tehran's residents. The relatively frequent occurrence of temperature
inversions (as many as 260 days in a year), would indicate that the health
impacts of air pollution should be significant. CO concentrations usually
reach 35 ppm for 1 to 2 hrs, while peaks of up to 45 ppm are quite frequent.
F. POLICIES AFFECTING URBAN TRANSPORT
3.21        A number of policies adhered to by earlier governments in Iran
have lead to or exacerbated the air pollution problem now confronting the
city. Among these, policies relating to fuel pricing, provision of public
transport, and land-use have been especially detrimental to the development of
an environmentally sustainable urban transport system in Tehran.
Fuel Pricing
3.22        Fuel prices in Iran have historically been set at extremely low
levels.  Presently, gasoline is priced at Rls. 50 /liter (US$ 0.14 /gallon4 ),
and diesel at Rls. 10 /liter (US$ 0.03 /gallon). These low fuel prices have
several implications for urban transport and air pollution in Tehran.
Automobile use is favored over public transit, since the latter cannot compete
at such extremely low fuel prices. Further, fuel efficiency is not an
important consideration, and the continued use of extremely inefficient and
obsolete vehicles (about 40 percent of Tehran's automobile fleet can no longer
be tuned-up) is the major cause of high vehicle emission factors, and the
consequent high contribution of urban transport to air pollution in Tehran.
Introduction of unleaded gasoline has also been hindered by the low prices
which make the cost of producing such fuels uneconomic.
Provision of Public Transit
3.23        Public policy has long favored automobile ownership over the
provision of public transport. In fact, previous governments had made the
ownership of one automobile per family an objective of public policy. As a
result, development of public transport services in Tehran was not, until
recently, accorded much priority, and even today public bus services are
generally regarded as a socially inferior form of transport. Bus tariffs have
4/     This was calculated at the floating rate of Rials 1430/US$ prevailing
in July 1992.



- 14 -
accordingly, and in line with the low cost of automobile use, been kept
extremely low (Rls. 10 /trip) with the result that the public bus company
recovers about one-sixth of costs, and on some routes only minimal services
are provided. The Municipality is now actively pursuing a number of public
transport initiatives such as express buses from Park & Ride locations,the
Metro and Trolley Bus (see below), however the success of these efforts will
depend to a large extent on either rectifying the distortions caused by low
fuel prices, or reliance on heavy subsidies for public transport.
Land Use Policies
3.24        Land use policies adopted to accommodate rapid increases in
population have also had an indirect impact on urban transport in the city.
Tehran has grown rapidly from a city of less than one million people in 1946,
4.5 million in 1976, to over 6 million in 1986. The resident population now is
estimated to be about 7.2 million, and including the people who come into the
city during the day, the population served by the urban transport system is
estimated to approach 10 million. This rapid growth in demand has led the
city to increase zoning densities in the downtown areas, with densities being
tripled in some cases. These increases in densities have not been coupled
with increased provision of competitive public transport facilities, and even
though the city is adequately endowed with road space (24 percent of land
area), the resulting increase in vehicular traffic has caused severe
congestion in the downtown area. Agglomeration diseconomies may already have
set in; there now appears to be a net out- migration from the city, with the
urban growth rate, which was over 4 percent pa. recently, declining to 1.8
percent, which is below the rate of natural increase for the nation.
G. URBAN TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT PLANS
3.25        In response to the increasing problems of urban transport and air
pollution, Tehran Municipality has undertaken a number of initiatives to
improve both physical infrastructure and the management of urban transport
operations. The following describes some of the key initiatives.
The Tehran Metro
3.26        The metro system is expected to commence operations in about three
years when the N-S Blue line will be completed. The first phase of the
project (N-S Blue and E-W Red lines) includes a total of 90 route km. of which
30 km. are underground. The Red line will eventually reach the satellite town
of Karaj (pop. 4 mln), allowing travel between Tehran and Karaj, a distance of
about 40 km, in less than half an hour. It is expected that ridership will
cross 2.5 million per day once the Karaj line is completed. All of the lines
now envisaged are expected to be completed in about 10 years. Stations on the
Metro will generally be spaced 1 km apart. The Metro will be powered by a
dedicated gas fired power plant of 140 MW capacity.



- 15 -
Trolley Bus System
3.27        A pilot trolley bus system comprising 17.5 route km. is under
construction, and the first phase (7 km) is scheduled to open for traffic in
about two months. The pilot project is located on a congested E-W corridor
passing through Imam Hosseini Square and Enquelab Square. The Trolley bus
will operate in a physically separated dedicated bus lane. The cost of the
first phase, including 65 Trolley Buses, is expected to be about US$30
million. If the pilot project is successful, a trolley bus system of about
150 route km could be possible based on the existing road network, with about
50 km of this network being in dedicated trolley bus lanes. Power requirement
for the 17 km pilot project is 10 MW. The trolley bus fare will be Rls 20.
Tehran Traffic Control Center
3.28        The Traffic Control Center of Tehran Municipality was established
in 1991 to develop a computerized traffic control system as well as to monitor
air quality at strategic locations of the city on a real time basis.  The air
quality monitoring system will be used to provide a citizen advisory, and to
take actions such as closing off areas to traffic, once certain air quality
thresholds are exceeded. Pollution advisory messages will be given through
variable message signs and through radio broadcasts. Details on the air
quality monitoring project are given in paragraph 31 below. The Traffic
Control Center is also currently engaged in developing real time traffic
signal coordination for about 250 intersections in Tehran. In addition,
projects are underway to implement a traffic surveillance system using video
monitoring and image processing in 35 downtown and 10 non-CBD squares
(meydans) and critical intersections. Studies are also underway to develop a
computerized route guidance system to assist drivers in avoiding congested
parts of the network. Work on development of an electronic road pricing
system has also been initiated with a local university, and such a system is
intended to be implemented initially in the CBD, and later throughout the
metropolitan area.
Dedicated Bus Lanes
3.29        Tehran has about 60 km. of dedicated bus lanes physically
separated from other traffic lanes. These lanes have greatly increased bus
speeds. While the average bus speed in mixed traffic lanes is about 5-10
kmph, the average bus speed in dedicated bus lanes is about 18 kmph. Often
the fastest means of travelling across the city, particularly north-south, is
by bus using dedicated lanes. Ridership of the bus service using dedicated
lanes is high. A recent survey along a East-West corridor indicated that the
average hourly ridership is about 12,500, while the peak hour ridership is
about 20,000 passengers/hour. Although dedicated bus lanes have generally
proved to be successful, their effectiveness can be increased by strict
enforcement of the ban against their use by motorcycles and other vehicles (or
by making contra-flow bus lanes), by improving intersection geometrics, and by
overall improvements in the level of bus service.



- 16 -
Air Ouality Monitoring
3.30        The Traffic Control Center plans to purchase air pollution
monitoring stations and install them at critical locations throughout the city
to monitor 03, CO, C02, HC, N02, H2S, and S02. Optimum location of these
stations is presently being studied. Additionally, 10 heavy metal samplers
are to be installed in the greater Tehran area (to sample on a weekly basis),
and 20 high volume samplers for particulates are also planned.
Tehran Vehicle Technical Inspection Bureau
3.31        An extensive inspection and maintenance (I/M) program (called
Tune-Up) for private passenger cars and light duty trucks has been started in
Tehran. Its pilot phase (comprising one fully equipped facility) has recently
been completed, and is aimed at training personnel in the use of the
equipment. The I/M program addresses both safety (eg. brakes, lights) and
emission issues. With regard to emissions, CO and HC concentrations are
measured at idling, and the engine is adjusted according to manufacturers
specifications. All private vehicles must be tested once every six months,
and the pubic vehicles such as taxis must be tuned every three months.
Stickers are issued to cars which have passed the inspection and emission
test. Rejected cars must be repaired and retested, and there is a penalty of
10,000 Rials on cars without a current sticker.
3.32        During the first six months of the pilot phase some 1500 vehicles
had received tune-ups; the facility has the capacity to tune-up about 30
vehicles per day and it is expected that as it becomes better known, demand
will pick-up. The equipment increases the productivity of tune-up work many
fold and will therefore pay for itself in a very short period. Another 249
units have been procured, and personnel from various tune-up workshops around
the city have been trained. The equipment is scheduled to be distributed in
the near future, and will create a capability to inspect and tune-up 50,000
vehicles per month. Initial results are very encouraging; for some vehicles,
the tune-up resulted in reductions in emission as high as 80 percent, and on
average for 1971 model cars reductions of 50 percent in HC and 25 percent in
CO were achieved.
3.33        It is important to note here that about 40 percent of the vehicles
tested were in such poor condition that they could not be restored to the
specified condition. Based on international experience, it can be estimated
that this 40 percent of the vehicle fleet could be responsible for more than
90 percent of total road traffic emissions in Tehran, at least in regard to CO
emissions. This clearly reflects the high average age of the cars in the
city, and the low levels of maintenance.
Conversion of Taxis to LPG
3.34        In a pilot scheme, 300 taxis from the in-use fleet have been
converted to LPG fuel in order to test the conversion equipment (mainly
Italian and Dutch), and to convince taxi drivers of the safety features and
procedures. Another 3,000 in-use taxis are scheduled to be converted in the



i
- 17 -
coming months, and a further 10,000 new taxis will be required to comply with
specifications for LPG use. It is not yet decided whether these new taxis
will be procured equipped with LPG systems, or will be retrofitted to allow
dual fuel use. According to Tehran Municipality, the converted vehicles
suffer a more than 30 percent deterioration in fuel efficiency, however, the
user is more than compensated for this drop in fuel efficiency via the pricing
of LPG: the taxi driver pays only US$ 3.5 per month for LPG regardless of the
amount consumed. To the extent that LPG used in the program is presently
being flared, it is expected that this program will have beneficial impacts
both on local as well as on Global pollution levels. However, the
ramifications of the innovative pricing strategy adopted need to be studied to
determine if improvements are possible. With regard to the availability of
LPG, the present distribution network consists of 5 gas stations, and an
additional two are planned to be opened in the coming months.
Conversion of Urban Buses to LPG
3.35        A program for conversion of the diesel engines of the urban bus
fleet is being considered; the engine is to be converted into an Otto (spark
ignition) engine to run on LPG, with the objective of eliminating particulate
and S02 emissions. Although no data are available, it must be expected that
this intervention will strongly increase (on the order of 50 percent) the fuel
consumption of buses. Moreover, it will result in higher CO, HC, and NOx
emissions, if no other measures are taken. Finally, as in the case of taxis,
significant incentives are being considered, and would be provided through
very competitive pricing of LPG.
Tehran Comprehensive Transportation and Traffic Studies
3.36        No organized traffic and transportation related data base exists
for Tehran. Nor has there been any systematic planning of land use
coordinated with transportation facilities planning in recent years. About 20
years ago an urban transportation study was conducted. However, this is now
outdated and no data base has been maintained. Consequently, a unit under the
Deputy Mayor for Transport and Traffic Affairs, Tehran Municipality, has
recently been set up to conduct a study and develop a comprehensive urban
transport data base. The study will have the following elements: data
collection and analysis of the current situation; land use - transport
modelling and travel demand forecasts; and evaluation and selection of
alternative action programs. As a part of the evaluation process, the
environmental effects of transport will be explicitly considered. The study
will take 30 months to complete. The proposed study will provide a much
needed resource center for data collection and analysis of strategic traffic
and transportation issues. When coupled with the air quality data base to be
maintained by the Traffic Control Center, the study would generate the type of
information critical to decisions regarding urban transport investment, and
various regulatory and policy measures.



- 18 -
DeDartment of Environment
3.37        In the current 5-year plan, the Dept. of Environment is
establishing a laboratory for testing of exhaust gas emissions of motor
vehicles, with a budget of US$500,000. The Department of Environment also
promulgated rule by which diesel engines have been prohibited for use by
passenger vehicles and light duty trucks on environmental (primarily
particulates) grounds.
IV. THE GEF PROJECT
4.1         There are good reasons for selecting Iran as the first country to
address urban transport related air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions in
tandem. As discussed above, Tehran is a highly polluted city with
considerable potential for low cost interventions that would reduce both GHG
emissions and local air pollutants. Tehran Municipality has a rich diversity
of transport-related developments planned or under implementation which
provide a good opportunity for a pilot program of the nature envisaged under
this project. Further, the Islamic Republic of Iran is strongly committed to
addressing global climate change issues, and is a signatory (June 14,1992) to
the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
4.2         With the support of GEF funding, authorities in Tehran will assess
measures that would reduce GHG emissions from vehicular traffic, while
simultaneously improving local air quality. GHG abatement can be achieved
through a variety of measures, all of which will produce reductions in local
air pollution. The GEF project would identify a schedule of measures which
serve both objectives at the lowest incremental cost for maximizing GHG
abatement. Such a schedule of GHG abatement maximizing measures, and the
associated incremental costs, will provide decision-makers with the
information necessary to design a program of local air pollution abatement
that simultaneously addresses global warming concerns. This project would
also contribute to the design of urban transport investment projects that are
responsive to global warming concerns, in all developing countries facing
transport related air pollution problems in their major cities.
B. KEY ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED
4.3         The above review of the urban transport situation in Tehran raises
a number of issues which would need to be addressed in preparing a strategic
plan to reduce local air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. The
following briefly reviews these issues as a preface to the description of the
project itself.
4.4         Transport Sector Development & Pricing:  Development of an energy
efficient urban transport system will require that investment decisions are



- 19 -
based on appropriate criteria, and that transport services are priced
efficiently. Presently, the urban transport system in Tehran suffers from a
number of distortions in pricing and service characteristics, and removal of
these distortions are a priority for improving air quality in the city.
4.5         Transportation Fuels:  Use of appropriate fuels appropriately
priced can have a significant impact on local and global air pollution impacts
of the urban transport system. Low fuel prices, poor quality fuels, limited
availability of unleaded fuels, and lack of energy efficient transport modes
using alternate fuels, are critical factors causing the high pollution levels
of the present transport system.
4.6         Emission Standards for Vehicles:  For implementation of a
comprehensive emissions reduction policy, adoption of appropriate emission
standards for new vehicles is absolutely necessary. Such standards can
improve fuel efficiency, which directly translates into a reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions, as well as reduce conventional pollutants (CO, HC,
NOx). Also, phasing of standards is critical to effective implementation of
such a policy.
4.7         Emissions Inventory Development:  Lack of an emissions inventory
must be addressed as a priority, since this is necessary both to establish a
baseline data set and a predictive model for the assessment of planned
interventions, and for monitoring their success in the future.
4.8         Baseline Air Quality Data:  Presently numerous air quality
assessments are being carried out, and there is incompatibility among the
results due to the use of different measurement techniques. It is necessary
to establish an agreed baseline air quality data set and the related
monitoring mechanisms, so as to ensure that future assessments can be carried
out on a consistent basis.
4.9         Fleet Improvement:  As already noted, a large part of the fleet
consists of very old, poorly maintained vehicles. Any attempt to improve the
emissions and fuel consumption of these vehicles will be of limited
effectiveness. Therefore, a fleet renewal effort needs to be undertaken,
aimed at the scrapping of old, highly polluting, low efficiency vehicles.
4.10        Inspection & Maintenance of Vehicles:  The current I/M program
needs to be enhanced. Present testing only comprises idling tests, which are
of limited value in predicting actual emissions or fuel consumption. A
representative short test could be developed to better relate test conditions
to actual (city) driving conditions.
4.11        Traffic Management:  Although several traffic control measures
have been taken, many of them have not been able to achieve their full
potential, or even have proven ineffective. For instance, the area traffic
restriction program can be greatly enhanced by implementing a careful parking
management program within the restricted CBD area. Similarly, staggered
working hours could have been effective if experience elsewhere could have
been incorporated in the design of the program. The effectiveness of



- 20 -
exclusive bus lanes could alBo be enhanced through allowing the facilities to
be utilized by high occupancy vehicles. Furthermore, some control measures
should be taken at the currently uncontrolled intersections, using either
signs or signals.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.12        The GEF project has the following components:
(A) Emissions Inventory & Air Quality Monitoring.
(B) Traffic Management & Restraint.
(C) Vehicle Fleet & Fuels Improvement.
(D) Strategic Urban Transport Emissions Reduction Planning.
(E) Project Support and Transport Emissions & Air Quality Seminar.
(F) International Panel of Experts.
The following describes each of these components.
Component - (A) Emissions Inventory & Air Oualitv Monitoring: This component
will comprise the following:
(i) Development of an emissions inventory, covering both mobile and
stationary sources, and including all pollutants (GHG and
conventional) emitted by urban transport operations. Based on
this inventory, a suitable emissions forecast model (eg.
COPERT) will be adapted for the investigation of policy
options. As fuel switch and intermodal shifts are likely, the
inventory and forecast models should allow for full fuel cycle
emissions analysis.
(ii) Specification of the air quality monitoring system to be used
in evaluating the effects of interventions in urban transport
operations. A phased program of improved air quality targets
will also be established.
(iii)  Establishment of a baseline air quality data set, to serve as a
benchmark against which future plans and actual accomplishments
can be evaluated. An air quality prediction model (eg. CALINE)
will be adapted to allow evaluation of specific urban transport
interventions.
Component - (B) Traffic Mana2ement & Restraint: This component will assess
the emission reduction potentials of various traffic management and restraint



- 21 -
strategies that are currently being planned or to be considered as a part of
the GEF project. The component would consist of the following sub-components:
(i)  Identification and assessment of traffic management and
restraint strategies, including improved enforcement of
regulations. Compilation of case studies on the basis of
international and Iranian experience. These case studies
should include information on effectiveness with respect to
traffic flow and air quality, and the associated costs and
implementation procedures.
(ii)  Development of a modelling framework for assessing the extent
of reduction of emissions of both GHG and local pollutants
resulting from the adoption of various traffic management
strategies. The framework should be dynamic (i.e. time
dependent) in nature so that temporal changes in fleet mix,
fuel quality, engine technology, travel patterns, land use, and
other elements are explicitly considered.
(iii)  Development of an appropriate travel modal shift model,
calibrated with data from Tehran, in order to estimate the
impact of various pricing, regulatory and investment strategies
on travel demand and behavior and GHG emissions.
(iv)  Identification of appropriate emission factors associated with
expected driving conditions under various strategies.
Estimation of emission reductions that can potentially be
accomplished through various strategies separately or in
combinations.
Component - (C) Vehicle Fleet & Fuels Improvement: This component will
comprise the following:
(i)  Development of a phased program of Emission Standards for new
vehicles (possibly including CAFE type corporate fuel
efficiency standards), which take into account target air
quality standards, and programs to enable local industry to
respond effectively to the new requirements.
(ii)  Design of a comprehensive policy for accelerated fleet renewal
through a program of incentives for scrapping of older, highly
polluting, low efficiency vehicles.
(iii)  Enhancement of the I/M program for in-use vehicles, aimed at
the establishment of effective emissions short tests, and
linking the actual emissions and fuel consumption to type
approval standards.
(iv) Feasibility of introducing alternative fuels such as CNG/LPG,
and higher quality fuels such as unleaded gasoline of higher



- 22 -
octane rating, gasolines with lower volatility, diesels with
lower sulphur content.
Component - (D) Strategic Urban Transport Emissions Reduction Planning: This
component will evaluate the cost-effectiveness of various strategies and
prepare a strategic plan for implementation. The sub-components will include:
(i) Identification of costs and likely GHG and local pollutant
emission reductions of various strategies, including strategies
involving engine technology, fuel technology and pricing,
traffic management and restraint, public transport improvement,
and urban growth guidance and land use. Costs will include
implementation costs, changes in user costs, and other public
and private costs.
(ii) Detailed trade-off analyses between costs and different effects
with regard to local and global pollution. In effect, this sub-
component would develop "supply curves" of the costs of various
interventions per unit of GHG and local air pollution emissions
reduction achieved.
(iii) Synthesis of the results in an evaluation framework. The
framework should incorporate the dynamics of the underlying
systems so that the timing of specific interventions can be
explicitly considered.
(iv) Review of possible institutional constraints in the
implementation of various options.
(v) Preparation of recommendations for a phased implementation
plan.
ComDonent - (El Project Suiport and Transport Emissions & Air Oualitv Seminar:
This component will fund (i) administrative support and facilities for the
project, and (ii) a seminar in Tehran on "Transport Emissions and Air Quality"
to present the results of the studies and obtain public comment on the
measures proposed.
Component - (F) International Panel of Experts: This component will fund fees
and travel expenses for a panel of four international experts in the fields of
air pollution measurement and impact assessment (special emphasis on global
warming), transportation fuels, vehicle technology and emission controls, and
urban transport planning. The International Panel of Experts will provide
guidance on international experience, will participate in detailed design of
components, and will review the outputs from the first four components. In
addition, the International Panel of Experts will participate in the seminar
on Transport Emissions & Air Quality.



- 23 -
D. ORGANIZATION & IMPLEMENTATION
4.13        The Department of Transportation and Traffic (DTT), Tehran
Municipality, will be the Implementing Agency for the project. A DTT staff
member will be appointed Project Coordinator with overall responsibility for
the project. It is not expected that DTT will engage any additional staff for
this project. Within DTT, implementation responsibility for components A to D
of the project will be distributed as follows:
Component A      - Air Quality Control Co.
Component B      - Tehran Comprehensive Transportation & Traffic
Studies Project
Component C      - Tehran Vehicle Technical Inspection Bureau
Component D      - Tehran Comprehensive Transportation & Traffic
Studies Project
4.14        Implementation of the project will be carried out in three phases.
In Phase I, the International Panel of Experts (IPE) would be appointed and
would specify detailed Terms of Reference for the Studies to be carried out in
Phase II of the project. In Phase II consultants will be engaged to undertake
the studies under Components A, B and C. In Phase III, a consulting contract
will be awarded for Component D of the project.
Prolect Advisory GrouD
4.15        While the DTT is the implementing agency for the project and will
bear full responsibility for its implementation, the project will benefit
greatly from consultations with various national and international agencies
which have expertise in the subjects of interest to the project. In order to
promote such consultations and cooperation, it was agreed that a Project
Advisory Group (PAG) would be established consisting of representatives of the
following agencies:
(a)   Department of Environment, GOIRI
(b)   Transport Department of the Plan and Budget Organization,
GOIRI
(c)   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, GOIRI
(d)   Ministry of Health and Medical Education, GOIRI
(e)   Ministry of Heavy Industries, GOIRI
(f)   Ministry of Oil, GOIRI
(g)   Ministry of Roads and Transport, GOIRI
(h)   United Nations Development Programme, Tehran
Meetings of the PAG will be chaired by the Department of Environment, and will
be convened by the DTT at three month intervals or more frequently. At each
meeting the DTT will brief the PAG on project status, and will arrange to
produce written minutes of PAG meetings which will be distributed to the PAG,
International Panel of Experts (IPE), and the Bank. All draft final reports



- 24 -
will be circulated to the PAG, and their comments will be provided when
submitting the reports for review by the IPE and the Bank. Attachment I
details the role of the PAG and responsibilities of the DTT with respect to
the PAG.
International Panel of Experts (IPE)
4.16        Tehran Municipality will appoint the four member IPE, under Terms
of Reference as set out in Attachment II. The four members of the IPE will be
experts in the following fields:
(a) Air Pollution and Global Warming Impacts;
(b) Transportation Fuels;
(c) Vehicle Technology and Emission Controls; and
(d) Urban Transportation.
The IPE will establish the Terms of Reference for the studies, review and
comment on intermediate and final project outputs, and will participate in the
Transport and Air Quality Seminar to be held in Tehran.
Project Budget
4.17        The Table below presents the project budget.
Table 3: Prolect Budget (USS 000's)
Description of ComPonents                    GEF Contr.  TM Contr. Total
A. Emissions Inventory & Air
Quality Monitoring
i) Studies                               400         400      800
ii) Equipment                             300         300      600
B. Traffic Management & Restraint               300         300       600
C. Vehicle Fleet & Fuels Improvement            350         200       550
D. Strategic Urban Transport Emissions
Reduction Planning                        400         400      800
E. Project Support & Transport
& Air Quality Seminar                                 400      400
F. International Panel of Experts               250                   250
Totals          2000        2000     4000
Procurement
4.18        The following procurement methods will apply to Components A, B,
C, D, and F of the project: All contracts for goods of a value of US$50,000 or



- 25 -
greater will be awarded through International Shopping on the basis of price
quotations from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries. Contracts below US$50,000 will be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three local suppliers.
Procurement of goods will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Procurement
of consultant services will follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
Disbursements & SRecial Account
4.19        Disbursement withdrawal applications will be prepared and
submitted to the Bank by the DTT. Disbursements against all items will be
based on full documentation, except for contracts below USS 100,000
equivalent, which will require only statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Supporting documents for SOE claims will not be submitted to the Bank but will
be retained by the project Implementing agency and made available for
inspection by Bank Supervision missions and project auditors.
4.20        A Special Account will be set up to finance eligible expenditures
under the GET Grant, and will follow standard Bank procedures in this regard.
The Special Account will be established at a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to which the Bank will make an initial
deposit of US$200,000.
4.21        Tehran Municipality will establish a separate account at a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and will
make an initial deposit US$500,000 equivalent in local currency therein as a
condition of effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement.
Prolect SuRervision
4.22          The project would be supervised by Bank staff/consultants every
six months, and these supervision missions would be coordinated with visits to
Iran by members of the International Panel of Experts. Bank staff would also
participate in the Transport Emissions & Air Quality Seminar to be organized
under the project to review and disseminate the results of the studies carried
out. A project inception mission would also be undertaken with the
participation of the IPE upon effectiveness of the Grant Agreement.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1         The project would quantify the costs of various interventions to
reduce greenhouse gas and local air pollutant emissions from urban transport
in a setting characterized by in-use technologies that are typical for non-
industrialized countries. This information would prove invaluable in guiding
policy decisions for urban transport development in developing countries, and
to the work of international bodies dealing with climate change issues.
Secondarily, the project would assist the Tehran Municipality and GOIRI in
embarking on urban transport policies which are environmentally sustainable
from a local air pollution as well as global stand point.



- 26 -
Proiect Sustainabilitv
5.2         It is expected that the recommendations of these studies will be
incorporated into the future investment plan for urban transport development
in Tehran. Sustainability will depend on the implementation of various policy
measures identified. In particular, petroleum pricing policies adopted by
GOIRI will be key to achieving energy efficiency improvements. This project
would also contribute to the preparation of environmentally sustainable urban
transport projects to be financed by the Bank in various developing countries.
Project Risks
5.3         Given the strong commitment of GOIRI and Tehran Municipality to
this project, no specific issues or risks are foreseen at present, other than
the normal implementation risks of a program of studies.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1         During negotiations the Bank sought and received agreement from
GOIRI and Tehran Municipality that there would be:
(a)   An undertaking in the GET Grant Agreement that GOIRI will take all
actions necessary on its part for the establishment and
functioning of the PAG.
(b)   An undertaking in the Project Agreement that Tehran Municipality
will establish for the project a bank account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Withdrawals
from such account will be made only to pay for project costs. The
Municipality will make deposits in Rials into such account at such
times and in such amounts as the Bank deems necessary, up to an
aggregate maximum of the Rial equivalent of US$2 million.
(c)   A condition of effectiveness in the GET Grant Agreement that a
subsidiary grant agreement, on terms and conditions approved by
the Bank, shall have been executed by GOIRI and Tehran
Municipality.
(d)   A condition of effectiveness in the GET Grant Agreement that
Tehran Municipality shall have established the bank account
referred to in (b) above, and shall have made an initial deposit
therein of the Rial equivalent of at least US$500,000.
Recommendation
On the basis of the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project will be suitable for a GEF Grant of SDR 1.50 million (US$2.0 million
equivalent) to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.



- 27 -
Attachment I
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
Proiect Advisor, Group
1.    The Project Advisory Group (PAG) for the project will comprise
representatives of the following agencies:
(a)   Department of Environment;
(b)   Transport Department of the Plan and Budget Organization;
(C)   Ministry of Economic Affairs & Finance;
(d)   Ministry of Health and Medical Education;
(e)   Ministry of Heavy Industries;
(f)   Ministry of Oil;
(g)   Ministry of Roads and Transport; and
(h)   United Nations Development Programme, Tehran.
The representative of the Department of Environment will chair the PAG.
2.    The primary role of the PAG will be to advise the implementing agency
for the project, the Department of Transport and Traffic (DTT), Tehran
Municipality, and to review and comment on intermediate and final outputs of
the project. In carrying out this role the PAG will undertake to:
(a)   Guide DTT on the implementability of various schemes in light of
various national/other constraints of which the DTT may not be
aware;
(b)   Inform DTT on the availability of various data and on research
efforts/studies that may be relevant to the project;
(c)   Identify and designate counterparts within the agencies
represented on the PAG, for specific activities of the project on
which DTT may require collaboration with such counterparts; and
(d)   In general provide DTT with the benefit of their expertise in
their respective technical areas.
3.    Meetings of the PAG will be chaired by the Department of Environment,
and will be convened by DTT at three month intervals or more frequently if
necessary. At each meeting DTT will brief the PAG on project status, arid will
arrange to produce written minutes of PAG meetings which will be distributed
to the PAG, International Panel of Experts (IPE), and the Bank. All draft



- 28 -
final reports will be circulated to the PAG, and their comments will be
provided when submitting the reports for review by the IPE and the Bank.
4.    Whereas DTT, in keeping with its sole responsibility for project
implementation, may choose not to accept specific advice/opinions offered by
the PAG, in rejecting such advice DTT should explain its reasons in writing
and for the record.



- 29 -
Attachment II
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS REDUCTION PROJECT
International Panel of Experts
Terms of Reference
1.    The International Panel of Experts will comprise four members, each
representing and responsible for one of the following subject areas:
(a)   Air pollution and global warming impacts of transport operations;
(b)   Production, distribution and use of transportation fuels and
electricity for transport;
(c)   Vehicle emission control technology, and vehicle
inspection/maintenance programs; and
(d)   Urban transportation planning, traffic restraint, demand
management including parking management, and pricing of fuels and
transport services.
2.    These Terms of Reference (TORs) set out the responsibilities of the IPE
in the three phases of the project. During Phase I (duration about 2 months),
the IPE will prepare the detailed Terms of Reference for the work to be
carried out under the project. During Phase II (duration about 12 months),
the IPE will review and comment on all outputs of Components A, B and C of the
project (see paragraph 8 of the MOD for description of project components).
During Phase III (duration about 10 months), the IPE will review and comment
on the output of Component D, the Strategic Urban Transport Emissions
Reduction Plan, and will participate in the Seminar on Transport Emissions &
Air Quality, in Tehran, to present the results of the project and seek public
comment. The following details specific responsibilities of the IPE in each
the three project phases.
Phase I
3.    In Phase I, the IPE will prepare the detailed TORs for the project.  In
preparing the TOR the following aspects are to be covered:
(a)   In each of the areas covered by the TOR, the IPE shall identify
specific transport technologies, fuels, traffic management
systems, and pricing mechanisms to be considered in the work
program;



- 30 -
(b)   Where desirable, the IPE shall specify small scale pilot projects,
eg. gas conversion of diesel fleet vehicles, mobile exhaust
testing equipment, etc., to be included in the work program; and
(c)   In preparing the TOR, the IPE will make a detailed cost estimate
to assess the feasibility of accomplishing the work envisaged
within the project budget, and if found to be excessive the IPE
will revise the TORs to bring the cost estimate in line with the
overall budget allocation, noting any work eliminated which would
detract significantly from the project's ability to achieve its
objective.
Phase II
4.    During Phase II, the IPE will review intermediate and final outputs of
the project, and in particular will comment on any issues raised by the
Project Advisory Group (see Attachment I of Technical Annex to MOD). Upon
completion of the draft final reports for Components A, B and C the IPE will
provide detailed comments to the Department of Transport and Traffic (DTT) and
to the Bank within 15 calendar days of receiving the draft reports.
Phase III
S.    During Phase III, as earlier, the IPE will review intermediate and final
outputs of Component D. Prior to production of the final Strategic Urban
Transport Emissions Reduction Plan, a draft of the plan and the results of the
various studies carried out will be discussed at an international seminar
organized by DTT on Transport Emissions & Air Quality, to be held in Tehran,
to seek public comment on the reaults of the project. The IPX will
participate in this seminar, and the IPE comments on the draft final Strategic
Urban Transport Emissions Reduction Plan will reflect the comments received at
the seminar. These comments will be provided to DTT and the Bank within 15
days of receiving the draft report.
Liaison
6.    The IPE member responsible for "Air Pollution and Global Warming Impacts
of Transport" will also liaise with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) and the Secretariat of the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate
Change.
General
7.    At various times, during implementation of the project, the IPE as a
group or individual members of the IPE may be requested to join World Bank
project supervision missions to review progress or resolve specific issues
arising during implementation of the project. Such participation in missions
will be under specific TORs prepared for these missions.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN                                                                Sqia              Sa,  
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
TEHRAN TRANSPORT EMISSIONS
REDUCTION PROJECT
Subway  atlos~ <;<g                                                                                       grf
F ~     Ma in Roads s  n  p  by    r  o                 Imam                                                                           Hoseyn Sqf
___0Automobile Restricted Area                            |                             t1
ok G    Railro ads 7   o   . n   oo on
-dInternational.Boundaries                                    \                                             uar
ao           2           4oo a                                                                   \str2   a o                                71
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5r
KILOMETERS                       \               ,                    T .    \             ;    n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fsariyeh Square
Th,, ..p h., b-  prepored by Th. Word Son4', slff --lusvel f.,.                                                                            II
t6e --vri-nc of red.r n ,, ..    mhrlo -- -of Th. World                                 _            SJ                           _
9..kn Goup  Th. d- -om<l-n .. d ond th. b .. d-rn  shown on thls,
r ty  ARABIA                                                                                                     -a
[3\   /0 °,3^ t arbfos,                                                                                         Shahr-e-Rey
RE.IRQL C0       -C,EP      NSIANo






I
I



-~~~~~~~~ l -
2'~*                                     t                             -~
t  N                  :,             .s~~¾ 
,                  .                                  "s   '                                          "' 
1' ~        ~           ~           ..                                                             _     ___ 
Prin~~~~~~ te  on re.ce  paper



