Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028642
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Tehran Transport Emissions Reduction Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated October 5, 1993
GET GRANT NUMBER TF028642
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 5, 1993, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee 
of grant funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the 
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided 
resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the 
Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and 
in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution;
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Project will be carried out by the Municipality of Tehran with 
the Recipient's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
available to the Municipality of Tehran the proceeds of the GET Grant as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Trustee and 
the Municipality of Tehran;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
Page  3
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Trustee and the Municipality of Tehran, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(b)
"Rial" means the currency of the Recipient;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(d)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Parts A, B, C, D and F 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall take all action necessary on its part for the establishment and functioning of 
the Project Advisory Group described in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, shall 
cause the Municipality of Tehran to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of the Municipality of Tehran therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Municipality of Tehran to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GET Grant available to the 
Municipality of Tehran under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and the Municipality of Tehran, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Trustee. 
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee 
and to accomplish the purposes of the GET Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03. The Trustee and the Recipient hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
Municipality of Tehran pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
     (ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Trustee has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GET Grant Account was made; and
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those of the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
     (ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
    (iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Municipality of Tehran shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b)
 As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the GET 
Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Municipality of Tehran will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any law of the Recipient shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Municipality of Tehran to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Municipality of Tehran or 
for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  5
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Trustee to the Recipient; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement:  
(a)
The Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and the Municipality of Tehran; and
(b)
The Municipality of Tehran has established the bank account referred to 
in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Trustee and has made an initial deposit therein of the Rial equivalent of at least 
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Office for International Organizations
  and Institutions
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
Nasser Khosrow Avenue
Tehran
Islamic Republic of Iran
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC
212838 MEF-IR
AFFAIRS AND FINANCE
TEHRAN
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
 Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
By /s/ Kamran Khatami
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Mahmood A. Ayub
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
    Amount of
   % of
     the GET
Expenditures
Category
Grant Allocated
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
SDR 
180,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Consultants' 
    1,220,000
100% of foreign
services
expenditures
(3)
Unallocated 100,000
TOTAL 
    1,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assess measures that would reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from urban transport operations in the city of Tehran, 
while simultaneously improving local air quality.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  7
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
the objectives of the Project:
Part A:
Emissions Inventory & Air Quality Monitoring
(1)
Development of emissions estimates, covering both mobile and stationary sources, 
for those pollutants (GHG and conventional) emitted by transport operations; (2) 
development of an air quality monitoring system to be used in assessments of changes 
in air quality; and (3) establishment of baseline air quality data and target air 
quality standards.
Part B:
Traffic Management & Restraint
(1)
Estimation of an appropriate travel modal shift (i.e., transport demand and mode 
choice) model, calibrated for Tehran; (2) estimation of emission factors associated 
with various transport modes under various operating conditions; (3) development of a 
transport model for all urban transport modes to assess potential emission reductions; 
and (4) assessment of traffic management strategies with respect to air quality 
impacts.
Part C:
Vehicle Fleet & Fuels Improvement
(1) Design of a comprehensive policy for accelerated fleet renewal; (2) enhancement of 
Tehran's vehicle inspection/maintenance and tune-up program, aimed at establishment of 
effective emissions tests; (3) study of the feasibility of introducing alternative 
fuels such as natural gas and higher quality fuels; and (4) development of a program 
to introduce emission standards for new vehicles, which take into account appropriate 
target air quality standards.
Part D:
Strategic Urban Transport Emissions Reduction Planning
(1)
Identification of costs and impacts of various pollution abatement measures 
including economic pricing of energy supplies and transport services and the 
associated elasticities; (2) analysis of institutional and other constraints to 
implementation of such abatement measures; (3) synthesis and evaluation of the results 
of such identification and analysis; and (4) preparation of a phased plan for the 
implementation of abatement measures.
Part E:
Project Support and Transport Emissions and Air Quality
Seminar
(1)
Provision of administrative support to the Project; and (2) carrying out of a 
seminar in Tehran to present the results of the studies referred to in Parts A to D 
above and obtaining public comment on the measures proposed.
Part F:
International Panel of Experts
Establishment of a panel of four international experts in the fields of air 
pollution measurement and impact assessment, trans- portation fuels, vehicle 
technology and emission controls, and urban transport planning. The international 
panel of experts will be responsible for preparing terms of reference for the studies 
referred to in Parts A to D above, reviewing and commenting on such studies, and 
participating in the Transport Emissions and Air Quality Seminar referred to in Part E 
above.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
Page  8
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify. 
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or 
(B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so 
request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of 
Page  9
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
