Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 8068
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION IMPORTS PROGRAM
(LOAN 1994-ZIM)
SEPTEMBER 21, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency eabbreviation): Zimbabwe Dollar (ZB)
Year         Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average           (1981)        US$1 - Z$0.689
Intervening Year Average                      US$1 = Z$1.011
Completion Year Average          (1986)       US$1 - Z$1.667
ABBREVIATIONS
CMED        Central Mechanical Equipment Department
GOZ         Government of Zimbabwe
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MRRT        Ministry of Roads and Road Traffic
NRZ         National Railways of Zimbabwe
SATS        South African Transport Service



FOR OffIIL u  OLY
TIE WORLD BANK
Washrton. D.C. 20433
U-S.A.
o0ie of Ovfectiw-Giqw
Opbtgm IvatSmIn
September 21, 1989
MEKORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe
Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program (Loan 1994-ZIM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Zimbsbwe - Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program
(Loan 1994-ZIN)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipionts only in the perfonce
of their offical duties Its contents may not othorwise be disclsed without World Bank autbodrton.



ZIMBABWE
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION IMPORTS PROGRAM
LOAN 1994-ZIM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE . ...................................                        i
BASIC DATA SHEET                .............. .                    il
EVALUATION SUM1MARY ..........                                      iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .................                  .     .        1
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, APPRAISAL
AhD NEGOTIATION ....................       .    . .            3
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS            .    .    .        6
IV.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE        ....................             14
V.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE            ............ .               16
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT    .       ............... ...      17
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNT ......................         17
ANNEXES
1.     Estimated and Actual Disbursements   .         .20
2.1    Selected Operating Statistics        .       .21
2.2    Operational Performance, 1981/82-1985/86  . .22
3.     Revenue and Expenditure Accounts, 1980J81-1985/86            24
4.     Compliance with Covenants.............                       25
5.     Reporting Requirements.                                      26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZIMBABWE
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION IMPORTS PROGRAM
LOAN 1994-ZIM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Transport
Rehabilitation Imports Program in Zimbabwe, for which Loan 1994-ZIM in the
amount of US$42 million was approved on May 1981. The loan was closed on
June 30, 1986, two and a half years behind schedule. The final
disbursement under the loan was made on February 13, 1987. A total of
US$35.8 million of the loan amount was disbursed;  the   balance of US$6.2
million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Southern Africa Department, Africa Regional Office, and is based, inter
alia, on a review of Bank files, including the President's Report,
supervision reports and information received from the Borrower.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on July 5, 1989, for coments by
August 23, 1989, but none were received.



- (ii) -
ZIMBABWE
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION IMPORTS PROGRAM
LOAN 1994-ZIM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                Appraisal Estimate                Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)        49.5                            35.8 1/
Loan Amount (USS million)               42.0                            42.0
Disbursed                             42.0                           35.8
Cancelled                             -                                6.2
Repaid                                _
Borrower's Obligation                 NA                             35.8
Date Physical Components Completed    6/3G/83                           6/30/86
Proportion Completed by Above Date (Z)NA                               NA
Proportion of Time Overrun (Years)    -                                  3.0 yrs.
Economic Rate of Return                 NA                              NA
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                             Original Plan                       Actual
First Mentioned in Files                                             09/80
Negotiation Date                   04/06/81                       04/06/81
Board Approval Date                04/81                          05/19/81
Loan Agreement Date                06/11/81                       06/22/81
Effectiveness Date                 06/81                          06/26/81
Closing Date                       12/31/83                       06/30/86
Borrower                          Republic of Zimbabwe
Executing Agency                  National Railways of Zimbabwe
Fiscal Year of Borrower           July 1-June 30
Follow-on Project Name            Railway Development Project (Loan
2342-ZflM)
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY82    FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million) 10.9        42.0    42.0      42.0  42.0   42.0
Actual (US$ million)                3.4      11.1    19.4      24.9  26.3   35.8
Actual as Z of Estimate            31.0      26.0    46.0      59.0  63.0   85.0
Date of Final Disbursement        February 13, 1987
1/The appraisal mission estimated total program costs at USS 49.5 million
of which local costs were estimated at USS 7.5 million. The program
beneficiary agencies did not account seperately for local costs. US$ 35.8
million is the program's foreign currency cost.



(iii)
iee_            Dot"     No of  "an Die     Specialization            Perforne ep
111Yr   Pi'on  It F3n          mrsntai                R iitina        Trri «t l!rob-is"A
Identification   9/to I/    a        sO       Economist
Ral Iway Engineer
Preappraleal    10/i0       1         4       Railway Engineer
Appreial         2/51       2        20       Econoisit
Subtoto 1                54      ~~~~~~Financial Analyst
Suporvison  /1 71           1        10       Railway Engineer           2               -       T10
2  2/82         2        16       Rinwt Eng                                  2      T,O
J   9/82        3       30        Rail1w: Eneinner
Financial Analyst         2               2       0
4  8/83         2        16       ibilv  Engineer
Financonl Anuly-t         2               2       e
5  12/68        8       21        Railway Enginear
Financial Analyst
Technical Educator        2                1      M,P
6  5/84         4       1ll       Ra;lway Engineer
Financial Analyst
Technical Educator
Economist                 2               1       " P
7  9/85         2        10       Financial Analyst
Economist                 2               1       H.P
8  9/86         2        10       Rmiluar Engineer
-     Financial Analyst          2               1       14
Subtotal                             141
STAFF INPUT
(Staff weeks)
PY                   81      82         83       84           8S      83        87        e8      Total
Preappralsal          .4        -      _          -         -                   - _                   .4
Appraisal           6.o         -      -          -         -         -                   -0
Negotiatlon         7.1         -      -          -         -         -         -         -         7.1
Supervision         1.8         17.2 12.7       18.6        9.6      11.6       6.8       9.6      61.2
Other                 .1        -      -           .        -                   -         -           .2
-TOTAL             14.9         17.2 12.7       18.6        9.6      11.6       5.8       9.6      04.8
y   Part of basic economic mission
V    In problem *reo or minor problems; 2. moderste problems,   o major
problmes.
3/ 1I miproving, 2. stationary, So dteriorating.
Mu id  managerial, Po political, To technical, Os other



-iv-
ZIMBABUE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION IMPORTS PROGRAM
LOAN 1994-ZIM
EVALUATIOiM SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program (Loan 1994-ZIM),
approved in May, 1981. was the Bank's first assistance to the transport
sector and the Bank's second lending operation in Zimbabwe in the immediate
post-indepc_dence period.  Zimbabwe's transport infrastructure emerged from
the war preceding independence virtually intact. Investment requirements
for the sector's maintenance and replacement needs had, however, been
deferred as resources were diverted from the economy in pursuit of the war
during the pre-indeperdence period. As a result, the availability of
equipment had declined severely, particularly in the railways which
historically had not only accounted for over 90? of the transport of the
country's international trade and domestic commodity movements but also a
significant proportion of neighboring landlocked countries' transit
traffic.  The genesis of Loan 1994-ZIY was a Government request to the Bank
in September 1980 five months after independence, to provide quick-
disbursing assistance to the sector to prevent it from becoming a serious
bottleneck to the post-war recovery of the economy's productive sectors.
2.       The program was based on a review of the railways' short-term
rehabilitation needs undertaken by a Bank mission in October 1980; it was
subsequently revised with the incorporacion of items proposed by the
railways administration -- the National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) --- and
finalized by a Bank mission that visited Zimbabwe in February, 1981. The
loan, US$42 million covering 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of the
program, was approved by the Board in May, 1981 and the agreement was
signed and became effective in June 1981. Program implementation was
expected to be completed by June 1983, two years after loan effectiveness.
Oblectives
3.       The key objective of the program was te increase the availability
of the railways' locomotive fleet from 552 in 1981 1! to 75? in 1984. This
objective was to be achieved through provision of spare parts to be
financed by the loan for rehabilitation of unserviceable locomotives and
replenishment of NRZ's normal holdings of spare parts for routine
maintenance. To facilitate expeditious utilization of the spare parts to
be ordered, provision was also made in the loan for the recruitment of
expatriate artisan staff to supplement NRZ's artisan staff which was being
seriously depleted by a rapid rate of resignation and early retirement of
white Zimbabwean staff. The program also included: (a) a tariff and
costing structure study which was to form the basis for a dialogue between
the Bank and the Government on the approaches to reducing Government
subsidies to NRZ; and (b),a manpower study of NRZ.
1/A review of NRZ operating statistics made during preparation of this PCR
indicates an availability figure of 58Z in 1980/81. To ensure consistency
of actual availability statistics in the text, 582 has been used whenever
reference is made to the actual overall locomotive availability for
. - IA



-V.-
Implementation Experience
4.       During program implementation, an increasing and unanticipated
rate of depav&ure of white artisan staff prompted the Government to
authorize NRZ to purchase new locomotives to reduca its maintenance burden
(para. 3.03) Also, the Bank approved the reallocation of a substantial
amount of funds from the loan provision for spare parts to that for
technical assistance in order to prevent the departure of such staff from
leading to a collapse in NRZ'6 locomotive maintenance capacity (paras. 3.12
- 3.16). Largely as a result of the acquisition of the new locomotives
financed from other sources, NRZ's overall locomotive availability
increased from about 5CZ in 1981 to 63Z by 1984 and the availability of the
diesel locomotive fleet -- accounting for over 802 of the railways' haul
capacity during the period -- increased from 622 to 70Z over the same
period. This improvement ensured that transport did not emerge as a
serious constraint on the country's economic recovery In the immediate
post-war period (paras. 5.01 - 5.03). However, the increase in the
availability of NRZ's locomotive fleet was completely reversed by the end
of the program implementation period 4n December, 1986. It is likely that
this subsequent decline in NRZ's capacity would have been much greater had
it r--t been for the increased technical assistance provided to NRZ in
support of its locomotive maintenance operations. To this extent, the
program prevented the emergence of transport as a constraint on continued
economic recovery.
5.       A major concern of the Bank during processing of the loan was the
poor financial performance of the railways and the high level of Government
subsidies provided to it. Since the problem of subsidies was pervasive in
the economy and the effect of removals of subsidies on the rest of the
economy was highly uncertain, Government and the Bank agreed that the best
way to tackle the issue was to undertake a study of the problem in the
railways and to implement its recommendations in a subsenuent railways
project. As an interim measure, Government agreed to ensure that subsidies
to NRZ were reduced and that NRZ would adhere to a target working ratio
(ratio of cash operating costs to revenues) of 110? for 1982/83 and 1002
for 1983/84 (para. 2.11). Government approved substantial increases in
NRZ's tariffs in 1982 and 1983 which ensured that the targets were
exceeded. However, the study that Government and the Bank agreed should
form the basis of action to address the subsidy issue focussed narrowly on
the accounting issues underlying tariff-setting and did not satisfactorily
examine the broader issues of the efficiency of the railways, the likely
inflationary impact of tariff increases necessary to aligu tariffs closer
with costs and the institutional arrangements governing the relationship
between Government and NRZ. As a result, the study did not provide the
basis for an expanded dialogue between Government and the Bank on the best
means of resolving the subsidy issue (para. 3.20). NRZ's reliance on
Government subsidies increased throughout the program implementation period
(para. 4.03).  Currently, the Bank is assisting Government, through the
Railways Development Project (Loan 2342-ZIM), to finance a number of
studies to define changes in NRZ's organisation, operating practices and
systems and its regulation by Government that are needed to enable NRZ to
operate efficiently and be financially self-sustaining. The studies will
identify the scope for cost reductions and revenue enhasncement through
improvements in operating efficiency in NRZ and the impact of any required



-vi-
mtructuraitariff increases on the delivered cost of the commodities
concerned.
6.       Another significant concern at the time of project processing was
the departure of white workers from the country. The Bank recognized that
while the short-term manpower gaps in the railways, which was particularly
affected by such departures, would have to be filled by technical
assistance to permit rapid absorption of the assistance that was being
provided to the subsector, a longer-term solution had to be sought through
training of local personnel based on a clear strategy for manpower
development (para. 2.09). During negotiations, agreement was reached with
GovernmelLt that a manpower study to develop an appropriate long-term
manpower and training program would be undertaken. The completed manpower
study formed the basis for additional Bank financing of technical
assistance under the program and for the technical assistance component of
the follow-on project (Railway Development Project - Loan 2342-ZIM).
7.        One of the key requirements for successful and expeditious
implementation of the program was timely procurement of equipment and spare
parts and the initial Bank reports indicated that problems were not
envisaged in this respect. However, the program took two-and-a-half years
longer to implement than originally envisaged largely as a result of delays
in procurement. Delays in the procurement of sp&re parts and tools were
experienced through NRZ's slow preparation of tender documents and the
frequent lack of clarity of the basis for proposed tender awards in NRZ
evaluations.  A more serious institutional problem was the rapid loss of
staff from NRIZ's supplies and engineering departments. This reduced the
railways capacity to draw up the list of items to be procured as well as
disrupt the continuity of staffing necessary for the full and speedy
acceptance of new procedures in an organisation. However, even when
relative stability oi staffing was achieved after 1982, the project
continued to experience problems with NRZ's non-compliance with agreed
procedures. In many respects, NRZ senior staff never fully accepted the
rationale for Bank procedures and their relevance to NRZ's situation
(paras. 3.06 - 3.09).
Results
8.       The key objective of the program loan was achieved but not through
the means envisaged during preparation of the program. However, program
loans are designed to allow quick and flexible channeling of Bank
assistance to member countries under situations in which conditions are
likely to be changing rapidly. In the case of this loan, the Bank's
knowledge of the institutional constraints on the sector's ability to
rapidly absorb the assistance offerec was limited after a number of years
during which Bank-country contacts were non-existent. The emergence of
unanticipated organizational problems and other constraints in NRZ slowed
the speed at which resources were used by the country and undermined the
strategy of assistance under the program, which was to finance the rapid
rehabilitation of unser.,Lceable locomotives. However, the program was (a)
in place much sooner than project. assistance could have been offered; and
(b) was sufficiently flexible to enable the Bank to assist Government in
preventing the emergence of transport as a serious constraint by protecting
the viability of NRZ's maintenance capability (para. 7.02). In its
absence, transport wonld have probably emerged as a serious constraint to
the post-war recovery of the economy.



-vii-
Sustainability and Findings
9.       The main lesson learnt from the  project is that program loans are
an important vehicle for Ba-ik assistance in the uncertain circumstances for
which they are desig Led becaase of the flexibility they grant the Bank to
respond to its borrowers' changing needs. However, unless the opportunity
is also taken to address policy and institutional issues fundamental to the
viability  of  the  sector   during  their  implementation,  the  resources
transferred are unlikely to be accompanied by the basis for sustainable
improvements in the sector's  performance.    In  the case of the Transport
Rehabilitation Imports Program,  significant  and  unanticipated changes in
NRZ's operating environment undermined the viability of the program's
strategy for rapid  rehabilitation  of  NRZ's  locomo%ive  fleet.  The Bank
exercised a considerable degree of flexibility in substantially ceanging
the focus of its assistance to ensure that NRZ's transport capacity did not
emerge as a constraint on the economy's post-war recovery. However, the
institutional basis for sustaining the railways physical and financial
capacity was not adequately addressed and the initial gains in NRZ capacity
as well as its financial position have subsequently been substantially
eroded. In this respect, the outcome of the program was mixed (para 7.04).



ZIMBABWE
TRANSPORT REHPSILITATION IMPORTS PROGRAM
LOAN 1994-ZIM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01           Zimbabwe is a landlocked country with an area of about 390,000
square kilometers and a population of about 8.7 million.   Zimbabwe has a
relatively well-developed transport infrastructure comprising (i) a road
network of 85,783 km of which 12,700 is paved, 43,778 km is gravel and 29,267
km is earth; (ii) a railway system with 2,753 km of track of which 335 1m is
electrified; and (iii) eight airports, three of which serve international
traffic. There is a well-developed private sector trucking industry serving
both the domestic and the Southern Africa regional markets and a national
airline with extensive domestic and regional connections and limited
connections to Europe and Australia.
1.02           Zimbabwe's transport system basically evolved to (i) serve tne
country's major mining, industrial and commercial farming centers that were
also the centers of white settlement; and (ii) provide access to seaports for
the input requirements and the output of its mining industry, as well as
those of Zambia and Zaire. Since independence in 1980, the Government's main
transport policy objective has been ti.: '1mprove transport infrastructure and
servicas in the rural areas where the n ority of the indigenous Zimbabwean
population resides whilst maintainin the integrity and improving the
efficiency of the existing network and services.
1.03           The railways, with a fleet of 301 diesel, 94 steam and 30
electric locomotives, about 12,000 wagons and 400 passenger coaches, is the
predominant mode of transport. As a landlocked country, Zimbabwe relies on
a number of railway corridors via Mozambique and South Africa for access to
seaports foo; its international trade which consi3ts of, in tonnage terms,
mainly the export of bulk minerals, metals and agricultural commodities.
Domestically, the movement of agricultural commodities and minerals, for
average hauls for which the railways enjoy a c'-   titive cost advantage,
accounts fo; the bulk of transport demand.  Overa., the railways system has
historicdlly accounted for over 90% in tonnage te, es. The railways system
is .-ministered by the National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ), a statutory body
soverned by the National Railways of Zimbabwe Act of 1973.  NRZ, with a
workforce of 19,000, is the largest parastatal Grganization in Zimbabwe.
1.04           Zimbabwe's transport infrastructure emerged from the civil war
preceding  independence  in April  1980 virtually  intact.    However,  the
maintenance and replacement requirements of -he system had been increasingly
deferred  during  the  decade  before  independence  as  resources  were
progressively diverted away from the economy in pursuit of thea war. As a
result, the transport system suffered serious deterioration with severe
declines in equipment availability in the railways and, to a lesser extent,
in the roads subsector. Compounding these problems was a massive exodus of



2
skilled white staff from the railways with the establishment of a majority-
rule African government at the end of the war.
1.05           The Transpr-t Rehabilitation Imports Program (Loan 1994-ZIM)
was the Bank's first involvement in the transport sector of Zimbabwe and its
second  lending  operation  in the  post-independence  period.    Prior  to
Zimbabwe's independence, the Bank's only involvement in the country's
transport sector had been through a loan in 1958 to the then Rhodesia
Railways which was jointly owned by the governments of Northern Rhodesia
(later Zambia) and Southern Rhodesia (later Zimbabwe) and administered under
a unitary system.
1.06           The Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program was designed to
stem and reverse the deterioration in the sector's operational capacity as
expeditiously as possible in order to facilitate the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of the economy's productive sectors. The program focussed on
spare parts and skilled manpower requirements for provision of the priority
rehabilitation of NRZ motive fleet and on equipment and vehicles for the
Central Mechanical Equipment Department (CMED) of the Ministry of Roads and
Road Traffic (MRRT) (now the Ministry of Transport) which was responsible for
the maintenance of the ministry's vehicle and road maintenance equipment
fleet. The program loan of US$42 million was expected to (i) help increase
NRZ's capability to meet the demand expected to be placed upon it by
increasing its locomotive availability and the number of serviceable wagons;
and (ii) assist in restoring Government's capability for road maintenance.
1.07           The  program  wan  effectively  a  hybrid  program-project
operation. The loan was designe 4 to provide broad support to NRZ to procure
apare parts and equipment and technical assistance. Eligible items for
financing under the loan were determined on the basis of their contribution
to relaxing specific operational constraints on NRZ and their impact on the
o7erall program objective of improving the operational performance of the
railways.    The  loan  agreement  was  structured  to  allow  considerable
flex,.bility to GOZ and NRZ on changing the composition of eligible items
subject to Ba,.k approval (para. 3.02).
1.08           The impact of the loan was expected to be almost immediate
with the total proceeds expected to be disbursed within three years after
loan effectiveness. In fact, the loan was eventually closed on December 31,
1986, over five years after loan effectiveness and with 15% of the loan
amount undisbursed and cancelled.   Over this period, the availability of
NRZ's steam locomotives deteriorated significantly but that of the diesel
locomotive fleet increased from about 62% in 1980/81 to 70% in 1983/84 (Annex
2.2). However, much of this improvement was attributable to the purchase by
NRZ of 61 new diesel locomotives shortly after the start of program
implementation using resources other than the Bank loan.   Subsequently,
diesel locomoti-e availability declined to an average of 64% in 1985/86 and
62% in the six month period to December 31, 1986. The overall availability
of NRZMs total locomotive fleet increased from 58% in 1980/81 to 63% in
1984/85 but subsequently declined to 58% in 1985/86 and 57% in the six month
period to December, 1986.  Thus at the end of the program implementation
period, overall locomotive availability as well as the availability of NRZ's



3
diesel locomotives was the same as at the start of the program. Nonetheless,
assistance financed under the loan proved crucial to protecting NRZ's
locomotive maintenance capacity as it gradually replaced departing artisan
staff with technical assistance and graduates from NRZ'8 own expanded
training program.
1.09           This Project Completion Report was prepared based on the
President's Report and the Loan Agreement for the program loan, data provided
by the Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ) and NRZ, supervision reports and other
relevant documents in Bank files.
It. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND NEGOTIATION
Project Identification
2.01           In September 1980, during the Bank's first economic review
mission After Zii-babwe's independence in April 1980, GOZ requested the Bank
to provide quick-disbursing assistance to rehabilitate the transport sector
so as to maintain its operations at an acceptable level of efficiency. While
the transport sector structure had remained intact, a backlog of maintenance,
lack of spare parts and departures of skilled white personnel in the wake of
independence were threatening the operating efficiency of the sector, in
particular the railways.   The economic review mission,  which included
transport specialists, identified a possible package of assistance estimated
at US$35 million to overcome the most urgent needs of the railways.
Project Preparation and Appraisal
2.02           A preparation/preappraisal mission visited Zimbabwe in October
1980 to review in detail the possible components of Bank assistance to the
railways. The mission identified the most urgent need of the railways as
spare parts for the rehabilitation of 63 diesel locomotives and 2,700 wagons
returning from Mozambique at the end of the war of independence. The mission
also found that spare parts holdings for normal locomotive maintenance were
severely depleted and below normal levels and needed replenishment.   To
expedite implementation of the rehabilitation program, the mission proposed
recruitment of expatriate technicians to supplement NRZ's staff. In respect
of Government's request for Bank assistance to finance new diesel
locomotives, the mission judged that investment in new locomotives would be
premature.   Traffic prospects were uncertain reflecting domestic economic
prospects as well as the development of an alternative railways corridor
through Tanzania for Zambian and, potentially, Zairoise traffic. Moreover,
the electrification of part of the NRZ system was then in progress and given
the uncertain prospects for traffic, its impact on diesel locomotive
requirements was not clear at that stage.
2.03           The total cost of the package of assistance was estimated at
US$ 46.1 million, of which the proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign
exchange component of USS 36.8 million. About USS 2.5 million of the foreign
exchange component would be for spare parts already ordered by NRZ for which
the mission recommended retroactive financing. A month following the



4
mission, NRZ proposed a list of import requirements valued at US$ 38.2
million. The list excluded provision for technical assistance and vehicles
for NRZ's trucking operations but included a substantial component for the
rehabilitation of NRZ's signalling facilities. In other respects however,
the list was substantially the same as the priority items agreed with the
October mission. The Bank informed NRZ that the proposal for rehabilitation
of its signalling system had not been reviewed by the Bank and consequently
could not be included in tha proposed program loan.
2.04           The package for Bank financing eventually was based on the
pre-appzaisal mission's original assessment, plus a provision of USs 4.2
million for replacement plant and equipment for MMRT.  The proposed loan
amourt at US$ 41 million was, however, greater than the US$ 35 million
initially proposed by the economic review mission in September 1980 and
subsequently incorporated into the lending program for Zimbabwe. In February
1981, a further Bank mission visited Zimbabwe to review the final composition
of the package and, in particular, to determine how its scope may be reduced
to the amount allocated in the lending program. This mission agreed with
Government and NRZ on a revised program of US$35 million.   The revised
program (a) reduced the scope of assistance for the locomotive rehabilitation
component in view of the fact that part of the requirements were then likely
to be financed by another donor; (b) dropped the earlier provision for trucks
for NRZ's trucking operations which it suggested could be reconsidered in a
future operation;  (c) incorporated NRZ's proposals for rehabilitation of
part of its signalling system which it considered essential to prevent
further deterioration that would reduce the railways' capacity; and (d)
increased the provision for technical assistance to reflect the increasing
severity of manpower losses.
2.05           At negotiations, Government requested additional funding for
further items identified by NRZ as part of its urgent requirements. These
included service vehicles for the civil and signalling engineering
departments, additional machine tools and technical assistance.  The Bank
considered inclusion of these items in the proposed project justified and
increased the loan amount correspondingly to US$42 million to cover 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of the project.
Negotiations, Signature and Affectiveness
2.06           The loan was negotiated in April 1981, approved by the Board
for a loan amount of US$42.0 million on May 19, 1981 and signed on June 22,
1981. The loan became effective on June 26, 1981.
Project Description
2.07           The project consisted of the following components:
(a) spare parts for locomotive and wagons rehabilitation and
maintenance;
(b) tools and equipment for track rehabilitation and maintenance;



5
(c) electrical spare parts and railways signalling rehabilitation;
(d) machine tools and service vehicles for the railways;
(e) technical assistance for implementation of the railways
component of the project;
(f) plant and equipment for the Central Mechanical Equipment
Department (CMED) of MRRT.
The program was expected to be physically completed by June 1983.
Issues Raised by the Bank During Processing
2.08           Two key issues were raised during Bank processing of the
project:
(i)   sector manpower strategy;
(ii) the appropriate level of Government subsidies to railways
operations;
2.09           Manpower strategy:   A significant concarn at the time of
project processing was the exodus of white workers from the country,
particularly from the public sector where, as a matter of public policy,
skilled and managerial positions had been largely reserved for them in pre-
independence days. The Bank recognized that, in the short term, manpower
gaps in the railways, which were particularly accentuated by the continuing
lose of skilled staff, would have to be filled by technical assistance to
permit rapid absorption of the assistance that was being provided to the
subsector. In the longer term, a solution had to be sought through training
of local personnel based on a clear strategy for manpower development. Other
transitional solutions mentioned in Bank files included use of the reservoir
of skilled and experienced staff in retirement. Apparently, this approach
was also under consideration by GOZ. However, this solution, although it
might have been cost-effective, was not likely to be politically feasible and
was not publicly advanced by the Bank or, indeed, used by Government during
project implementation.
2.10           A compromise solution was reached, under which, in the short-
term, manpower needed for installation of equipment under the project would
be financed from the proposed loan while NRZ would undertake a manpower study
to develop an appropriate long-term manpower and training program. During
loan negotiations, GOZ agreed to such a study being undertaken and financed
from its own resources.
2.11           Railways subsidies:  At the time of project preparation, the
railways' cash operating costs were about 111% of its revenues (working ratio
of 117) with the shortfall in cash generation from operations and debt
service obligations covered by Government subventions. A large number of
commodities were being carried at rates significantly below their long-run



6
variable costs of carriage even under a traffic costing system which
significantly understated the cost of the assets involved in moving traffic.
The Bank decided that the problem of subsidies was pervasive in the economy
and that the effect of removal of subsidies to the railways on the rest of
the economy was highly uncertain.   The best way to tackle the issue given
the short implementation period set for the project was to undertake a study
of the problem in the railways under the project and to implement its
recommendations in a subsequent railways project.  Government reluctantly
agreed to such a study. Also, agreement was reached with Government that,
as an interim measure subsidies to NRZ would be reduced and NRZ would adhere
to a target working ratio of 110% for 1982/83 and 100% for 1983/84. These
targets were achieved (para. 4.02).
2.12           The merit  of this  approach was  that  it  permitted  the
processing of the loan to proceed but signalled to GOZ the Bank's concern
about the inability of the railways to be self-financing.   The study was
completed in June 1982.   It focussed on the efficiency of NRZ's traffic
costing procedures in capturing the cost of movement of various commodities.
It did not address the broader issues of the impact of tariff realignment on
the costs of other sectors in the economy or the appropriateness of price
adjustment as the sole instrument for improving NRZ's financial performance
(para. 3.18). GOZ approved increases in NRZ's tariffs in 1982 and 1983 that
were sufficient to ensure the working ratio targets were met. However, by
December 1986, at the time of closing the loan, NRZ's working ratio had
deteriorated to 107% from 98% in 1983/84, with a consequential increase in
the overall level of Government subsidies. As of 1988, direct subsidies to
NRZ from the Government accounted for about 3% of total Government recurrent
expentditures and about 25% of subsidies to all parastatals.
III. PROJECT INPLEMENTATION AND COSTS
Start-Up
3.01           Shortly after the start of project implementation, the Bank
discovered that GOZ had decided that all procurement under the loan was to
be directly related to provisions made in the Government budget for the
relevant period and agency. The Government was to be the direct beneficiary
of foreign exchange resources made available under the loan and these would
then be passed on to the relevant agencies under normal Government budget
procedures. Such procedures meant that NRZ had to cbtain import licenses
for items to be financed under the project.   Import licenses were in turn
only awarded against foreign currency allocations made under a bi-annual
allocation procedure unless specifically granted on a non-currency-involved
basis. The Bank could only make direct payments to suppliers on approved
contracts if import licenses were granted on a non-currency-involved basis.
For both NRZ and CMED, the Government's decision meant that procurement could
be considerably delayed as allocations were based on foreign exchange
rationing and not on approved capital expenditure plans. The problem was
eventually resolved with Government agreeing not to unilaterally set ceilings
on the "beneficiary" agencies' capital expenditures through its budget for
budget periods beyond December 1981, without takirng into account the



7
agencies' own project-related capital expenditure plans.
Spare Parts and Equipment for NRZ
3.02           The loan provided for USS 31.4 million for the procurement of
spare parts, service vehicles and tools for NRZ. The loan agreement provided
for funding cf all these itemts under one category  (Category 1).   For
operational purposes, however, NRZ was required to adhere to the broad
provisions for the various items agreed at negotiations   This arrangement
provided an appropriate degree of flexibility to Government and NRZ in
changing the composition of procurement out of the loan as circumstances
required without recourse to formal requests for reallocations to the Bank
whilst ensuring that the Bank would have the opportunity to review any
significant proposed changes to the agreed list of items eligible for
funding.
3.03           In July 1981, NRZ, with Bank approval and Government of Kuwait
funding, placed an order for 25 diesel locomotives to replace a similar
number of locomotives on hire from the South Africa Transport Services (SATS-
South Africa Railways). Delivery of these locomotives was expected by year-
end 1981. In September 1981, against the background of increasing departures
of white Zimbabwean artisans from the railways, NRZ placed a further order
for 36 locomotives with financing from export credit agencies. This latter
order, with deliveries set for late 1982, was expected to reduce NRZ's
maintenance burden by allowing the replacement of 68 old and unreliable
locomotives. NRZ estimated the savings in spare parts requirements for the
anticipated program period arising from this latter order at US$1.3 million
and requested reallocation of a similar amount from the spare parts category
to support additional recruitment of expatriate artisans. The Bank gave its
consent to NRZ's request.
3.04           In response to a further request from NRZ for a reallocation
of more funds from the amounts provided for spare parts and equipment to the
provision for technical assistance, the Bank sought from NRZ an assessment
of potential savings from Category 1 funds. In February 1982, NRZ indicated
to the Bank that savings of US$ 4.25 million were likely to be made on the
provision for capital equipment agreed at loan negotiations as a result of
(a) savings realized on the initially estimated cost of items already
ordered; (b) revision of the scope of the signals project; (c) the deletion
of some items no longer required; and (d) the availability of alternative
bilateral funding for part of the locomotive rehabilitation envisaged.
Further savings of US$ 1.6 million were expected to arise from NRZ's decision
to fund part of the requirement for general spare parts out of its own
foreign currency allocation because of difficulties it envisaged in procuring
the items of relatively small value involved under the Bank's international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. In addition, NRZ felt it could procure
US$ 0.4 million of the requirement for wagon spares domestically.   In
aggregate, NRZ estimated the savings it expected to realize at US$ 6.2
million.  Although the Bank agreed with this assessment, it believed the
situation was too fluid, particulariy with respect to NRZ's manpower
situation, to formally approve a reallocation at that stage.   The Bank
formally consented to the reallocation of funds from spare parts and



8
equipment to technical assistance in March, 1984 when the availability of
spare parts had clearly ceased to be a critical constraint on NRZ's
operations and when it was proposed that additional technical assistance
requirements were to be financed under the follow-on Railway Developmnent
Project (Loan 2342-ZIM).
3.05           The procurement of locomotive spare parts amounted to USS 2.5
million by April 1982. The position improved appreciably by August, 1983,
when practically all funds provided for spare parts had been committed.
3.06           In respect of capital items, the position was appreciably
worse. A major part of the loan provision for capital items was for the
procurement of service vehicles for the civil and signalling engineering
branches of the railways.   At the start of project implementation, NRZ
indicated to the Bank its desire to purchase locally-assembled vehicles on
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures with the Bank financing the
foreign exchange cost of the standard kits. NRZ felt that the procurement
of vehicles under ICB may lead to the purchase of non-standard vehicles and
would require special allocation of foreign currency to the successful bidder
to establish a service network and provide spare parts backup. The Bank was
opposed to LCB for vehicle procurement of the magnitude proposed. However,
as a compromise, it proposed, in October 1981, that NRZ issue tenders for the
vehicles under ICB procedures but with the qualification of bidders on the
basis of their willingness to establish or their current capacity to provide
a service organization in Zimbabwe. NRZ issued tender documents for supply
of vehicles incorporating this provision. The bids were evaluated in April
1982 and the Bank gave its approval to NRZ's evaluation and proposed awards
in May 1982. Delays in respect of tools and spare parts were experienced
through NRZ's slow preparation of tender documents, difficulties in obtaining
approval from Government for its capital budgets in the earlier years of
project implementation and frequent lack of clarity of the basis for proposed
tender awards in NRZ evaluations.
3.07           One of the key requirements for successful and expeditious
implementation of the project was timely procurement of equipment and, in
particular, spare parts for locomotives -- the low availability of which was
deemed to be the binding constraint on the railways capacity.  The irLtial
Bank reports indicated that problems were not envisaged in procurement.
Reinforcing this view was the Bank's opinion, given shortly before loan
negotiations, that NRZ's procurement procedures and capacity were acceptable
to the Bank for procurement under ICB subject to some modifications agreed
to by NRZ.
3.08           As project implementation progressed, it became increasingly
clear that the initial assessment of the speed with which procurement could
be made was optimistic.   Equipment and service vehicles procurement was
delayed by Government slowness in approving NRZ's capital budget thereby
effectively putting a ceiling on authorized expenditures in any given period.
In some respects this was an institutional problem which could have been
overcome by appropriate budget provisions being made by NRZ.
3.09           A more serious institutional problem was the continuing loss



9
of staff from NRZ's supplies and engineering departments which reduced its
capacity to draw up the lists c items to be procured as well as disrupt tl;e
continuity of staffing necessary for the full and speedy acceptance of new
procedures in an organization.  However, even when relative stability of
staffing was achieved after 1982 and Bank staff had provided considerable
assistance with procurement matters, the project continued to experience
problems with NRZ's non-compliance with agreed procedures, such as, (i)
insufficient information being given why lower bids were rejected; (ii) FOB
offers being recommended for acceptance although tenders called for CIF bids,
etc., up to the eventual closing date of the loan in December 1986. In many
respects NRZ senior staff never fully accepted the rationale for Bank
procedures and their relevance to NRZ's situation.
3.10           Finally, the NRZ Board decided, during 1982 and 1983, to slow
down the pace of spare parts procurement.  The specific reasons for this
decision, which was not supported by the management of the railways, are not
clear. However it seems likely that a major reason centered on concerns
about the inefficiencies of supplies management within NRZ.  In November
1982, a Bank consultant identified serious weaknesses in NRZ's system for
spare parts procurement and management.   In particular, the consultant
identified the absence of systematic efforts to forecast consumption or to
establish service levels. There was no established system for monitoring and
following up on outstanding orders.  Compounding these problems was the
unreliability of the computer system on which str -k holding records were
held. As a result of these deficiencies, the consultant concluded that stock
holdings, at nine months, were substant!ally greater than necessary and
estimated that the proportion of non-moving items, at 25% of the 60,000 stock
items, was too high.
3.11           Overall, the objective of achieving quick disbursement of the
loan provision for spare parts and equipment was defeated by lack of thorough
assessment, during project preparation and appraisal, of the organisational
and institutional conditions likely to impede such an objective during
implementation. The impact of the delays in procurement proved not to be
grave for the project's primary objective due mainly to the procurement of
61 new locomotives. Moreover, the proposed financing of capital items out
of the loan was not, as recognized by Bank supervision missicis, critical to
the railways short term capacity although deferral of procurement of such
items would have adversely affected the railways capacity in the medium term.
By August 1983, locomotives no longer constituted the capacity limit of the
railway  system and NRZ could carry all traffic  on offer.   This was
notwithstanding the fact that only 55% of the provision for diesel locomotive
spare parts and 30% of the total provision for equipment and spare parts for
the railways under the Bank loan had been spent by that time.
Technical Assistance
3.12           In the period July 1979 to June 1981, NRZ had lost 368 white
Zimbabwean artisans. To offset such losses, NRZ had embarked on recruitment
drives in the United Kingdom. These had produced a total of 140 artisans in
the corresponding two-year period, significantly less than required to offset



10
the increasing loss of its staff. NRZ's training program had an enrollment
of 594 apprentice artisans but the profile of recruitment into the program
was such that only 157 of these were approaching the end of the five-year
apprenticeship period. The rate of output of the program could not match the
rate of loss of staff. More importantly, NRZ was losing its most experienced
staff who could not be adequately replaced by newly qualified staff.  In
order to close this numerical and skills gap in requirements, NRZ in late
1980 entered into negotiations with RITES of India to provide a total of 206
artisans and artisan supervisors in the mechanical and signal engineering
fields. RITES offered a package comprising 268 man-years of artisanal staff
over two years at a foreign exchange cost of about US$ 5.4 million, the cost
of which the Bank agreed to finance under the program subject to negotiation
of a contract acceptable to it. Contract negotiations between NRZ and RITES
were held in Jvne 1981 and the final contract for an amount of USS 5.2
million equivalent was approved by the Bank in July 1981. NRZ assessed its
system-wide requirement for artisans to maintain its locomotive fleet, as of
July 1981, at about 1000. As of that date, its complement of such staff was
709.
3.13           By September 1981, NRZ's manpower situation had deteriorated
further with increasing departure of artisan staff. To reduce the impact of
this loss on its operations, NRZ requested the reallocation of USS 1.3
million from the provision for spare parts and equipment financing to that
for technical assistance (para. 3.03). This sum was expected to be utilized
to finance the cost of 40 artisan staff from Pakistan Railways in respect of
whose services NRZ and Government had already, prior to completion of the
loan processing, reached agreement with Pakistan Railways. The Bank agreed
in principle to this request but proposed that it be formally effected when
the existing provision had been fully utilized.   The contract for the
services of these artisans was in the event not signed until July 1982.
3.14           In the interim,  the rate of departure of artisan staff
increased from an average of about 80 a month in the latter half of 1981 to
120 a month in the first quarter of 1982. At this rate of attrition, NRZ
estimated the need for additional technical assistance staff over and above
those for whom financing had been approved by the Bank, after taking account
of the output of its training program, at about 300 by end 1982.  As the
situation deteriorated, NRZ twice in the first half of 1982 requested
additional reallocations of funds from the provision for spare parts and
equipment to that for technical assistance to cover the cost of additional
staff from RITES. The Bank agreed in principle to both requests. However
concern was expressed in the Bank about (a) the impact of the proposed
reallocations on NRZ's ability to successfully complete other components of
the project such as procurement of spare parts and equipment; and (b) the
effectiveness of the Bank responding on an adhoc basis to NRZ's concerns
about the increasing rate of departure of artisans. To address the first
concern the Bank, in February 1982, requested NRZ to review the  .vailability
of funds relative to requirements for the spare parts and equipment component
of the loan. NRZ's review indicated that savings of US$ 6.2 million on the
estimated total requirement of US$ 31.4 million were possible (para. 3.04).
In respect of the second concern, the Bank felt that the need for expatriate
personnel in the short and medium term could only be firmly established



11
through a comprehensive study of the manpower situation. The need for such
a study was established during loan processing and Government had agreed
during negotiations to undertake it by March 31, 1982 (parea. 2.09 - 2.10).
The priority requirement was to commence work on the studyc In the interim,
NRZ could overdraw the provision for technical assistance and its request for
reallocations would be formally considered once the recommendations of the
study were reviewed by the Bank.
3.15     Consultants were selected, on a sole source basis, in May 1982 to
conduct the manpower study. Although conduct of the study was a covenanted
requirement under the loan agreement (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement),
provision for its financing was not made under the loan since Government had
indicated during negotiations that it would finance it from its own resources
(para 2.10).   The Bank eventually agreed to finance it under a Project
Preparation Facility for the follow-on Railways Development Project.  The
study was completed in October, 1982 and its findings confirmed the dire
manpower forecasts of NRZ management. In particular, it projected a vacancy
rate of 50% in 1983 in the assessed requirement of about 1400 for critical
artisan grades. The study proposed a substantial expansion of NRZ's training
capacity to meet the demand for ataff in all areas of its operations.
However, in the interim, gaps in requirements could only be met from external
sources. The study confirmed that the Bank's support of NRZ's management
request for increasing financing of technical assistance was justified. The
study also provided the basis for further assistance to help resolve NRZ's
manpower problems under the subsequent follow-on project.
3.16     Subsequent to the completion of the manpower study,  the Bank
approved additions and extensions to the RITES and Pakistan Railways
contracts totaling 7,790 man-months.   In March 1984, the Bank formally
approved the reallocation of USS 4.1 million from Category 1 to Category 3,
thereby increasing the total provision for technical assistance to USS 10.9
million. The increasea provision was fully utilized at the eventual closing
date in December, 1986.
3.:7     The  justification  for  inclusion  of  the  technical  assistance
component in the program was that it was essential to ensure timely and
effective utilization of the spare parts and equipment components of the
program.   However, as NRZ's manpower situation deteriorated, spare parts
requirements were reduced from the initially assessed levels and spare parts
and eqjipment procurement slowed, it became increasingly apparent that an
equally important justification for the increasing Bank financing of
technical assistance was to protect the basic viability of NRZ's maintenance
capacity pending the articulation and implementation of longer term
solutions. Although this was not an original objective of the project, it
was consistent with one of the key objectives of a program loan, which was
to maintain funding flexibility in the face of rapidly changing conditions.
In this respect, as well as facilitating use of the other items financed
under the loan as and when they were procured, this component of the loan was
successfully completed.



12
Studies
3.18     The conduct of a study to review NRC's tariff and costing structure
was a covenanted requirement under the loan agreement (Section 4.04 of the
Loan Agreement). Terms of references for such a study were agreed by the
Bank and Government during negotiations. It was also agreed that the study
would be undertaken by NRZIs external auditors under Government financing and
that a final draft would be completed by the end of June 1982. The terms of
reference provided, inter alia, for (a) a review of the extent to which the
existing classification of income and expenditure can be improved to
facilitate identification of costs of specific services; (b) the analysis of
the basis for overhead and general adminiatration allocation; and (c) review
of the basis for charging depreciation and its adequacy. The draft final
report was received in Can; 1982 as agreed at negotiations.
3.19     In line with the terms of reference, the study focused on accounting
issues underpinning rate making. The study provided a detailed review of tAe
existing costing system and endorsed the adequacy of the allocation
procedures used by NRZ in assessing the cost of mow'ement cf spfcifi.c
commodities but it implicitly proposed the charging of depreciation on a
replacement cost basis. The study noted that the underlying principle of
the tariff structure, which was to charge what the traffic will bear, led to
the tariffs on many major commodities not being related to costs.   It
however, proposed caution in reforms towards a cost-based tariff for such
commodities given the likely impact on industrial and agricultural activity.
It did not, however, quantify what such impact would be.
3.20     No substantive recommendations, other than the possible need to
consider depreciation at current costs in accounting for diminution of
assets, were contained in this report. The original motivation for the study
was mainly the impact of NRZ's poor financial performance on the Government's
budget given that Government is, under the Railways Act, oblV7ated to cover
WRZ's overall cashflow deficit.  A review of the adequacy or rationale of
accounting procedures used to determine tariffs addresses only one dimension
of the problem. An equally important consideration ib the extent to which
the costs of operating the system -- labor, physical assets, materials --
reflect efficient practices.   In the absence of the thorough review of
operating practices and cost structure, accounting systems and procedures
can, even with best practice, simply formalize the transfer of the cost of
inefficiencies from one sector to another. A recent. Bank review of NRZ's
financial performance indicates not only the inadequaey of its tariffs to
cover costs, however defined, on a substantial number of its major commodity
movements but, also, significant inefficiencies in assets management,
extensive overstaffing and overinvestments. Also, one of the major causes
of Government's reluctance to agree to the revision of taziffa is uncertainty
of their inflationary and income distribution impact. In this regard
assessments of required tariff increases to cover costs, however small, are
unlikely to lead Government into action.  Rather, what is required is an
assessment of the impact of required tariff increases on delivered costs to
major users.  These were all considerations raised during the debates on
conditions to be attached to the loan but were not reflected in the terms of
reference. As such the study failed to meet the concerns that motivated the



13
Bank to insist on its conduct in the fire place. Currently, the Bank is
providing assistance to Government through the follow-on project to the
Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program (Railways Development Project --
Loan 2342-ZIM) to finance a number of studies to review weaknesses in the
management and organisation of NRZ and in the bases for its regulation,by
Government. The recommendations of these studies are expected to form the
basis of future Bank assistance to NRZ.
Assistance to the Roads Subsector
3.21     The roads subsector component of the project, which was administered
by MRRT, was successfully implemented. Delays in the procurement of vehicles
and plant were minimal and much of  these arose in the early stages of
implementation when Government capital budget provisions for MRRT did not
take account of the fact that funding for the agreed procurement under the
loan was independent of Government's own budgetary resources. As a result,
MRRT could not proceed with much of the procurement for items to be financed
under the loan without exceeding the expenditure limit set it under the
budget. All orders for plant and equipment financed under the program were
eventually placed and delivered by the initially set loan closing date.
Procurement
3.22       Other than the issues related to procurement discussed in paras.
3.06-3.08,  there  were  no  significant  problems  in  procurement.    The
performance of £uppliers and consultants was satisfactory. The table below
shows the courzries of origin of firms that won contracts under the Bank
procurement guidelines.
Award of Contracts Under Bank Financing
Country                                 USs $            of Total Contracts
India (Technical Assistance)            10.2                   28.:
United States                            5.1                   14.2
Japan                                    4.0                   11.2
France                                   3.4                    9.5
Austria                                  3.0                    8.4
Zimbabwe                                 2.5                    7.0
West Germany                             2.3                    6.4
South Africa                             2.2                    6.1
United Kingdom                           2.1                    5.9
Pakistan                                 0.6                    1.7
Switzerland                              0.3                    0.8
Canada                                   0.1                    0.3
Total                    35.8                    100
Reporting Requirements
3.23     The reports that were to be submitted to the Bank by NRZ are shown
in Annex 5. Compliance with reporting requirements have been satisfactory.



14
While some reports were sent to the Bank on timely basis, others were made
available to .niisions.
Project Cost
3.24     The breakdown of t1.e actual foreign costs versus the estimated costs
in US dollars is given in the following table. At appraisal, the program's
local costs were estimated at USS 7.5 million. However, comparisons of the
program's actual local costs with that of the appraisal estimates cannot be
made due to the fact that the program's local costs were not accounted for
seperately by the implementing agencies. The foreign exchange cost of the
project was estimated at US$42 million, to be covered 100% by the Bank loan.
Actual costs were US$ 35.8 million resulting in cancellation of USS 6.2
million of the loan amount.
Actual and Original Estimates of Project Costs
Appraisal    Actual Cost as a
Actual    Estimate     % of Appr. Estimate
(US$m)     (US$m)
A. Equipment, tools and
spare parts for NRZ             22.8       31.4               72.6
B. Equipment, spare parts
and vehicles for CMED            2.1        3.8               55.3
C. Technical Assistance
for NRZ                         10.9        6.8              160.3
Total                 35.8        42.0              85.2
Disbursements
3.25     Annex 1 compares the disbursement profile estimated at appraisal
with the actual experience.   Actual disbursements lagged the estimated
disbursement profile significantly as a result of the delays in project
implementation. Significant problems were experienced by NRZ in complying
with the Bank's disbursement procedures particularly as they related to the
requirement for prior approval by the Bank of the related procurement
procedures followed. By the original closing date of June 1983, only 26% of
the loan had been disbursed compared to the appraisal estimate of 100%.
IV. FINANWIAL PERFONR&ICB
4.01     At negotiations, GOZ reached agreement with the Dank - formalized
in a side letter - that it would endeavor to ensure that NRZ attains a
working ratio of 110 in 1982/83 and 100 in 1984/85 as against a working ratio
of 117 in 1980/81.   This financial objective was designed to partially
address the Bank's concerns about the level of Government subsidies to NRZ
pending completion of the tariff and costing study and the implementation of
its recommendations in a future project.



15
4.02     NRZIs financial performance from its fiscal year 1982 (FY82) to FY86
is summarized in the table below:
NRZt SummarX of Financial Performance
(ZS million)
Fiscal Year (July to June)      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
Revenues                        181.9     203.1     242.2      240.5     261.o
ope tting Profit (Loss)         (22.1)    (27.1)    (11.4)    (21.8)    (32.3)
Free Cashflow                   (31.0)    (30.4)       5.3      (9.1)      6.0
Debt Service                   (17.4)    (32.2)    (47.8)    (60.4)    (72.8)
Working Ratio                   108        107        98        103       107
Source: NRZ accounts
The working ratio improved materially from FY81 to FY82 and again from PY83
to FY84 as a result of substantial increases in freight tariffs ( an average
of 16% with effect from Nay 1981 and an average of 25% with effect from May
1983). As a result, the agreed target working ratios were achieved in both
FY82 and FY84. However, the working ratio has deteriorated progressively
since FY84 and currently (FY88) stands at an estimated 112. This subsequent
deterioration was accounted for largely by the lack of timely tariff
increases to compensate for inflation and by the declining operating
efficiency of NRZ.
4.03     Although the working ratio targets were achieved for the pariods for
which they were explicitly set, the underlying objective for the setting of
the targets was never achieved. As the table below indicates, effective
Government support of NRZ operations (excluding financing of capital
investments) registered increases in all but two years of the implementation
period and have been consistently higher than at the time of appraisal.
NRZ: Government Subsidy of operations
(Z$ million)
Fiscal Year                      1982      1983      1984       1985      1986
Overdraft Guarantee              -          '5.9      26.2      18.6      19.0
Loans *                           8.7       9.0        -        20.6      21.4
Budgetary Appropriation Made      39.7      28.0      24.0      31.3      27.4
Total                            48.4      62.9      50.2       70.5      67.8
*  Loans provided for capital expenditures but used by NRZ to finance cash
shortfalls from operations.
Source: NRZ accounts



16
4.04     Contributory  causes  to  NRZ's  poor  financial  performance  and
consequential high level of reliance on Government transfers have been: (a)
a subsidy provision in the Railways Act which provides little incentive for
NRZ to control the costs (operating and capital) of its operations; (b) poor
capital expenditure appraisal procedures and inappropriate debt financing of
a major proportion of its capital expenditures; and (c) inadequate tariffs
in relation to its direct operating costs and asset base as well as lack of
timely mechanism for adjusting tariffs in line with inflationary cost
increases. The Bank expressed concerns about most of these factors during
the preparation and appraisal of the progran.. However, the actions that were
initiated under the loan to resolve them proved inadequate.   The Bank is
currently assisting in financing, through the Railways Development Project
(Loan 2342-ZXM), the formulation of a detailed strategy and action plan to
address these issues in a comprehensive manner in a possible third railways
lending operation.
V. OPNRATING PERFORMANCE
5.01     Specific operating targets were not set for NRZ under the project.
However it was expected that, as a result of the assistance offered under the
loan, NRZ's locomotive availability would increase from an average of 58%1
in FY81 to 75% by the end of the originally scheduled program implementation
period in June 1983. Overall locomotive availability increased to 63% in
FY84 but declined subsequently to 58% in FY86.   The increase in overall
locomotive availability was accounted for largely by the arrival of 61 new
diesel locomotives during late FY82 and FY83. As a result of the infusion
of these locomotives, the availability of the diesel locomotive fleet (which
accounted for over 80% of NRZ's haul capacity) increased from 62% in 1980/81
to 70% in 1983/84  (Annex 2.2).   More importantly,  diesel-locomotive-
kilometres performed increased from 14.6 million kilometres in 1980/81 to
15.7 million kilometres in 1982/83 and declined to 5.0 million kilometres in
1983/84 largely because of the electrification of part of the track.
H:twever, since 1984, the performance of the diesel fleet has deteriorated
sharply with availability falling to 64% by the end of 1985/86.
5.02     The net number of owned-wagons on the system did not increase as
envisaged  under  the  project.    This  was  however  the  result  of  NhZ
substantially curtailing the scope of the wagon rehabilitation initially
agreed under the loan. However, this had little impact on operations given
that the binding constraint on capacity was the availability of locomotives.
5.03     NRZ's revenue freight transport performance fell from 6.3 billion
net ton-km in 1980/81 to 5.9 billion net ton-km in 1981/82. Thereafter it
progressively improved to 6.2 billion net-ton km in 1985/86.   From FY83,
locomotive availability ceased to be the constraint on NRZ's transport
capacity. Fluctuations in NRZ's traffic performance for the balance of the
implementation period were due mainly to fluctuations in domestic and
1See footnote 1/ on page (v).



17
regional economic activity.
VI * INSTITUTIONAL DEVZLOPX3NT
6.01     Institutional development involves issues of a longer term nature,
which in the case of this operation, was viewed in the Bank as likely to
inhibit the quick disbursing objective of the loan as well as its timely
preparation and processing.   As a result,  assistance to Government in
strengthening the managerial and planning capacity of NRZ and MRRT was
consciously excluded from the program.   These were to be considered in
specific roads and railways projects.  Nonetheless, both manpower and cost
recovery issues were considered sufficiently important and critical to NRZ's
future viability to merit preparatory work on them for a future project(s)
to be undertaken during the implementation period.
6.02    n!uring project implementation, significant weaknesses in a key
technical system -- inventory management -- became evident.   Also, the
departure of staff broadened to include NRZ's senior and middle management
which was predominantly white -- a legacy of restrictions on African
advancement in the pre-independence years -- leaving few sufficiently
experienced people to take over.  This development provided the basis for a
significant increase in the degree of ministerial intervention, throughout
the period of program implementation, in the selection of senior staff to
promote African advancement in a key industry.   The widening nature of
resignations from NRZ also increased the urgency of the manpower study to map
out a strategy for Bank assistance to Government in dealing efficiently with
the transition from a predominantly white-r-an organization to one with
significant African representation at all levels.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LUAENT
7.01      Program loans are designed to allow quick and flexible channelling
of Bank assistance to member countries in situations where conditions are
likely to be changing rapidly. The determination of the size and composition
of assistance is, under such circumstances, difficult.   In the case of
assistance being offered in a period of reconstruction following a prolonged
period during which Bank-country contacts were minimal or non-existent, this
problem is compounded by a lack of Bank knowledge of institutional and other
constraints on the country's capacity to absorb assistance being offered.
In considering program loan assistance to Zinzbabwe's transport sector, the
Bank faced a choice of (a) further enhancing its knowledge of sector problems
and issues thereby delaying valuable assistance to Zimbabwe; or (b)
proceeding expeditiously with loan processing with significant gaps in its
knowledge of sector capabilities and requirements and the attendant risk of
slow disbursements and inappropriate size and composition of assistance. In
the event, the Bank chose the latter approach which was appropiate under the
circumstances.
7.02     The program took some two and a half years longer than anticipated
to implement. At the end of the originally envisaged implementation period
in June 1983, only a third of the assessed requirements of NRZ for spare



18
parts and equipment -- which were identified as the critical constraint on
its, and by extension, the country's transport capacity -- had been ordered
and delivered.    By this point, the urgency of the requirement for spare
parts and equipment had been overtaken by the deteriorating manpower
situation in NRZ and the program's primary focus had become the prevention
of the collapse of NRZ's basic locomotive maintenance capacity through
expansion of the scope of the technical assistance component. Government was
prompted by the increasing departure of NRZ's skilled staff to approve the
acquisition of new locomotives with financing from outside the program. The
main objective of the program -- increasing the availability of NRZ's
locomotive fleet -- was achieved largely through the acquisition of new
locomotives rather than through the rehabilitation of existing locomotives
as envisaged 'n the program. In any event, the rehabilitation approach to
improving NRZ's capacity in a timely manner was likely to be infeasible given
the increasing loss of skilled manpower and its likely effect on both NRZ's
ability to order the required spare parts and implement a major maintenance
program quickly. Locomotive availability declined substantially ir. the last
two and a half years of the implementation of the program which followed the
first full year of service of the r.ew locomotives.   It is likely that,
without the program's extended and expanded support of technical assistance
for the railways' locomotive maintenance operations, the decline in NRZ's
locomotive availability would have been much more severe and rail transport
capacity would have emerged as a bottleneck to the country's econumic
recovery.    Thus, although the initial composition of assistance to the
railways proved inappropiate to address the program's objectives as
conditions changed, it was changed quickly and sufficiently to ameliorate the
key consequence of the changing conditions, namely, the erosion of NRZ's
capacity to maintain its locomotives.
7.03     The loan provided an ideal climate for Government and the Bank to
discuss and seek sustainable solutions to problems affecting the basic
viability of the railways subsector and its claim on Government resources.
while the interim measures taken by Government to improve NRZ's financial
performance were successful in enabling NRZ to meet agreed cash generation
(working ratio) targets for FY83 and FY84, the study that was designed to
recommend long-term solutions to the subsidy problem in NRZ failed to provide
the basis for any meaningful action and NRZ's claim on Government's budgetary
resources has continued to increase with direct subsidies to it currently
accounting for about 3% of Government's recurrent expenditures (including
subsidies) and about 25% of subsidies to all parastatals.  The underlying
causes of NRZ's continuing poor financial performance, which are not confined
to the basis on which tariffs are set but include managerial and
organisational weaknesses within NRZ and the very basis for its regulation
by Government, failed to be addressed and have continued to inhibit efficient
operations.
7.04     The main lesson learnt from the project is that program loane are
an important vehicle for Bank assistance in the uncertain circumstances for
which their use are designed and in the flexibility they grant the Bank in
responding to its borrowers' changing needs. However, unless the opportunity
is also taken to address policy and institutional issues fundamental to the
viability of the sector during their implementation, the resources



19
transferred are unlikely to be accompanied by the basis for sustainable
improvements in the sector's performance.   In the case of the Transport
Rehabilitation Imports Prcgram, significant and unanticipated changes in
NRZ's operating environment undermined the viability of the program's
strategy for rapid rehabilitation of NRZ's locomotive fleet.   The Bank
exercised a considerable degree of flexibility in substantially changing the
focus of its assistance to ensure that NRZ's transport capacity did not
emerge as a constraint on the economy's post-war recovery.  However, the
institutional basis for sustaining the railways physical and financial
capacity was not adequately addressed and the initial gains in NRZ capacity
as well as its financial position have subsequently been substantially
eroded. In this respect, the outcome of the program was mixed.



20
Annex 1
ZThZA3vg
PROJlECT COMPLETION REPORT
ThANSPORT UEABILITATION hPORTS PROGRAM
LOAN 1994-ZDI
tstimated aria'Actua&l Scheldule of Disbursements
USS million
* IDA  Fisc4, -                  iAppraisal               -   Actual as 2
.Year Quarter                   . Estimate         Actual       of Aopraisal
......
1982 --
-September 30, 1981
December 319 '1981                                   .88 
March 31, 1982                                      2.49              -
June 309 ;982                     10.9             3.44            32
1983
Septoaber 30, 1982                 10.9             3.95            36
December 31, 1982                  10.9             5.46             50
March 31, 1983                     10.9             7.53             69
June 30, 1983                     .42.0            11.06            26
1984...
September 30, 1983                 42.0             13.24           32
December 31, 1983                  42.0             16.27           39
March 31, 1984                     42.0             16.81           40
June 30, 1984                      42.0             19.37           46
1985
September 30, 1984                 42.0             22.63           54
December 31, 1984                  42.0             22.63           54
March 31, 1985                     42.0             24.71           59
June 30, 1985                      42.0             24.93           59
.1986
September 30, 1985                 42.0             25.29           60
December 31, 1985                  42.0             25.43           61
March 31, 1986                     42.0             25.43           61
J#4n* 30, 1986                     42.0             26.28           63
.9
1987
September 30, 1986                 42.0             27.39           65
December 31, 1986                  42.0             31.05           74
March 31, 1987                     42.0             35.79           85
June 30, 1987                      42.0             35.79           85



21
Annex 2.1
D-MBAW.PR
PROJECT COPEIN REPORT
TRANSPORT REHABLITATION               RTS PROGRAM
LOAN i994-zD2c
Selected Operating Sttlt,
1930/01   t191/32    1902/83    1983/04    1984/e6   190,/"
Ttal ItRut. ($' T                               2,314       3,394       3,394       3,394      3,394      3,394
Total Staff ('eeM                                 22.3        29.2        19.9        19.4        19.7      19.3
Operstlens Staff                                $,W2        8,794       6,663      5,333       6,165      5,220
Other                                          14,59       14,391      14,326     14,0U4      14,567    t4.ft7
Peaugage... - total (million)                     1.          1.0         2.1         2.2        2.5        2.?
Ietrepel to"                                                    -                       -
No-etreplItax                                     1.6         1.          2.i        2.2         2.5        2.?
Paas.ng....ke - total (million)                    na          /a        rn/a         rn/a             n/a  r/
Average jouerne1 (km.)                            r/a         a/a         n/a        r/a         n/a        ;/a
"et paylin  teen.. (mIllie.)                     11.1        12.5       13.0        13.4        13.8       13.4
Not Paying tenne-ka (.1111..)                   6,346       38,75      6,s85       6,191       *,9U4      6,204
Aven9ge haul (kt)                                 44          470        4"          442         466        403
TOLea    grosh t anr-k1  (m IIIorn)          13,U2.   1237506  130w,3.1   13,215.8   13,029.3  17,760.
Load" freight car-4m (million)                  m21.2       190.4      294.2       193.4       136,9      195.0
boty frelgbt car-ts (Il Iton)                    74.1        73.2       68.9        34.6 O2.8              97.6
traffic- Oensity
Pamsecg er.ks/rout_Ie-  ('096)                    rn/s        n/a         r/a        n/           /a        r/*
Frelglt . 0Oet II_ _nne.k./rute.ku ('IN)          1.          1.3         1.9        1.0         1.s        1.9
Train-k     s gr    (millien)                     1.9         1.7          1         1.7         1.7        1.7
Trelr_fr.ighrt (ml 11n)                          12.5        12.4       12.5        12.0        11.4       11.9
tr*i  uetag (millon)                             14.4        14.1       14.2        13.7        13.1       13.6
Leceg -       (mIllio)                           3.3         3.4         3.1        2.6         2.4        2.4
Lleee-s-di,l (nOIIIse)                           14.6        14.1       13.7        15.0        14.1       13.8
LJec.  -ll   (.1ito1.)                             -           -           -        0.6         1.0        2.1
Ogeratsrn Effleenty trroldhtl
Grae&  toarne-ha/traln-ku                         7'17        733         697        727         721        74g
Nut tenlne-k/traln-ks                               *         30          337        353         343        359
Not teane-ka/leaded car-.k                      314.'       31.36      33.38       33.16       35.16      33.76
Car turnaround time (days)                      11.57       12.24      12.63       12.U4       12.23      12.54
Average speed (km/h)                            31.42       31.59      32.12       32.34       32.36      31.63
Traffic unita/gmployor (I'69)
(Net ten"e-km/year staff units)                   320        316         316         331         315        341
Sourc*t N1Z



ZIMBABWE
TRANSPORT RENA9ItIUTTTWR IWORTS PROGRAM
PROJECT CO RPiom REPORI
bOpeti onal Port.rmmnce. 198@/81-1985/i6
FISCAL YEARS
10801V4      1981,12       8192188       1038/34      Uu485/        1985/36
I.   SYSTEV, STAFF, MOTIVE POWER
AND ROLLING STOCK
Rout. - Its                                          8,894         8,194         8,894        8,894         8,94         3,894
Track - he                                           41816         4.211        4,20          4,260         4,208         4,236
Numbor of Staff                                     19,060        19.820       I1,989        11,671        18,931        18,6V7
II.  TRAFFIC
P&erong-ro Carrled (000)                              120 50                    2 0.0          219 t4it1                 2 It8
Frelh"t Rovenue (nft-Ion) 000)                      I*IIC         1  JI I07                  ii            l               1 E
Frolght Servico (not-ton) I'000)                       756           74J          lo7t          60          f 676          486
Ttal (not-ton)                  18.90         18.8U1       18,86         14,12C        13.683       14 045
Hot-ton - km('O0)                                0,010.099    6,259,019    0,290,145    0,411,755    0,20I,7g9   !, 68 202
Orose-ton - km ('000)                           18,540,091   12,8S,Q20   18,009,189   18,205,631   13,029,800 So      ,r8,7O?95IB .
III. Opersting Etflceloncy
Woaon AvaIIabilltf (Si                                04.0          94.0         w1            01.1 ^        32           92.2
Locomotivo Productivity 6000l
(km per awailable locomotive)
-  Electric                 -             -'            -          129          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~122  143
-  Diesel o1                                                        18           117          100           10            102
-  Ste..                               ~~~~~~~~                           ~~~~128  it107        75           is
Wagon Turnaround lime (days)                          11.6          12.t          12.0         12.0          12.2          12
Aeragen Wagon Loan (tonal                             21.0          81.2           2.O          88.7         2.2           83 .
stafn Producti vit'O00 .)
St on Producltviti  *'000U
staff)                   ~~~~884        81            82828683
Aversag  Haul (i)                                       .-            470          466           482          461           463
Source, NIl



1980L81         1981182         1982183               1983184           1i84/85            Iwo
Locomotive Availability
Electric
Fleet Size (units)                -              -              -                 18              30                30
Serviceable (units)               -              -              -                9.3            24.1              27.8
Available (units)'                -              -               -               5.9            13.4              14.7
Availablity(Z)                    -              -               -              64.0            55.6              52.9
Diesel
Fleet Size (units)              275            304            328                318             316               309
Serviceable (units)           207.1          205.4          228.4              239.7           243.2             225.9
Available (unit')             127.7          132.0          157.1              168.6           164.2             143.8
Availablity (Z)                61.6           64.3           68.8               70.3            67.5              63.7
Steam
Fleet Size (units)              124            122            122                 96              94                 92  t
Serviceable (units)            89.0          101.3           91.4               86.8            82.4              75. I 
Available (units)              44.5            50.0          42.6               36.2            31.8               31. 
Availablity (Z)                50.0            49.4          46.6               41.6            38.6               41.4
Totals Serviceable Units           296.1           306.7          319.8             335.8           349.7              329.2
Total: Available Units             172.2           182.0         1997.7             210.7           209.4              189.8
Overall Availability (Z)            58.1            59.3           62.4              62.7            59.9               57.6



24
Annex 3
ZfIMBABWE
TRANSPORT REHA8ILITATIUR IMPORTS PROGRAM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1994-zIwI-
Revenue end Expenditure Accounts 19so0/i   1986/86
(U melleI on)
FP10/SI  FY81/82  FPYt2/el  FYsa,gu  FYg4/85  FpYg/
Op2ratIng Revenues
Fr-ight                         143.4    159.0    177.1    210.8    207.4    224.3
Pna-sngere                       3.5      10.3      21.3     13.8      14.6     17.2
Other                            2.4       3.9       4.5      7.3       S.9      9.3
Total Operating Revenue.   154.4    173.2    193.4    231.9    231.1    250.8
Operating Exoenses
Locomotive and Rolling Stock     66.9     70.3      86.4    104.1    101.8    11S.9
Track an Signalling              16.3     20.0      21.1     26.3      23.9      32.4
Terminal* and Train Operating    32.2     38.S      40.0     40.3      40.5      45.3
Freigh* Handling                 3.0       5.1      6.9       6.7       7.7      9.6
Pasungar F cilitis               2.9       3.3       3.S      3.6       3.7      4.1
Buildings, Equipment
Maintenance and Reneal         12.9     17.8      15.9     11.0      11.8      10.0
Total Rail Operating Expenses   134.1    153.3    172.9    194.0    194.4    217.2
Admn. and Geneal  Costa          36.9     4.2    _IU.9       51.4      60.4     6.6
Total Operating Exponse    17.0        .s    22.8    246.4    24.8    285.8
Met Operating Revenue (Lo")     (16.6)   (24.3)   (29.4)   (13.5)   (23.7)   (35.0)
Loan InXteret                      .2     12.4     23.2      32.1      39.2     46.5
Proviisone                       2.7       2.6     (0.3)      0.4       0.2      0.5
Extraordinary items written oft   6.1      2.4       }.        -         -        -
Loe on Foreign Exchange          -              -                       7.0  .2  9.1
33.6     41.9      52.3'   48.0       70.3     90.1
Renta from Properties           2.0        2.6      2.8       3.4       3.6      3.8
31.6     39.4     49.6.    44.1       66.6    836.3
ROea Service Def0cit             .3 _. 03           o.s       1.2       1.6      1.0
Total Defclt for Year           32.7      39.7       0.      45.3      63        7.4
Source: NRZ



25
Annex 4
ZIMBABWE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION IMPORTS PROGRAM
LOAN 1994-ZIM
Compliance with Covenants in the Loan Agreement
Action Required                                                  Action Taken
The Borrower shall:
1.  Furnish audited accounts within four months
of fiscal years ending June 1982 and
June 1983 (Section 4.03(b))                                 Complied with
2.  Undertake railway tariff and costing
structure study and furnish report by
June 30, 1982 (Section 4.04)                                Complied with
3.  Undertake manpower study and furnish
report by March 31, 1982 (Section 4.04)                     Complied with
4.  Not make any alterations of substance to their
rehabilitation imports program for the period of
June 20, 1981 through June 30, 1983, without
prior notice (Section 4.05(a))                              Complied with
5.  In the event of shortage of resources to finance,
in full, NRZ's and CMED's investment program,
give priority to financing the rehabilitation
imports program (Section 4.05(b))                           Complied with
Supplemental Letters
The Borrower shall:
6.  Endeavor to ensure that NRZ achieve working
ratios of 110 in 1982/83 and 100 in 1984/85                 Complied with
7.  Advise the Bank of changes of substance in
NRZ investment plans for 1981/82 and 1982/83                Complied with



Annex 5
Z(BABWE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION flPORTS PROGRAM
-LOAN 1994-ZIH
-Reporting Requirements
Quarterly Report
($)  A narrative report covering general aspects and any special
problema encountered-and significant developments affecting the
project, railway operations, revenues and expenses. etc.;
(ii)  A summary statement on procurement and disbursements;
(iii)  Selected operational statistics (route km. track km.
passengers carried. freight tons carried. freight ton-km. etc.;
(iv)  Monthly operational statistics for the three months of the actual
quarter;
(v)  Statistics of locomotive availability and locomotive failures;
(vi). Statistics of defects on wagons;
(vii)  Statistics of derailments; and
(viii) Monthly financial statements for the three months of the most
recent quarter and a closing balance sheet as of the end of the
quarter.
Annual Report
(1) Rail freight traffic by commodity and rail passenger traffic;
(ii)  Within four months of the fiscal year,  a copy of audited Annual
Accounts of the fiscal year;
(iii)  At the end of the fiscal year a copy of approved annual financial
budgets of recurrent revenue and expenditure and capital
expenditures for the ensuing year together with a forecast cash
flow analysis covering the same period.



