=FFICIAL
DOCUET 'r
LOAN NUMBER 1994 ZIM
Loan Agreement
(Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program)
between
ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1994 ZIM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    44u- I2                  , 1981, between
ZIMBABWE (hereinafter called the Bor-rower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General L.>nditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Secticn 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless ihe
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "NRZ" means the National Railways of Zimbabwe estab-
lished by the Railways Act, Cap. 261, as amended; and
(b) "CMED" means the Borrower's Central Mechanical Equipment
Department.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for


﻿-2-
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through NRZ and Part B of the Project through CMED, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
ther re trces required for the purpose.
Sectic- 3.02. In order to assist NRZ with the installation
of spare parts and equipment under Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause NRZ to employ engineering experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
insured, or that adequate provision shall be made for their
insurance, against hazards incidental to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except aLs the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Pro-
ject.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to examine all relevant records and documents concerning goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Upon the award of any contract for goods costing more
than $1,000,000 equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV.
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ennaure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
raintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
.istently maintained appropriate accounting practices the


﻿operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause NRZ and CMED
to maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NRZ and CMED to: (i) have the
separate accounts referred to above audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank within four
months of the fiscal years ending June 30, 1982 and June 30, 1983
(A) certified copies of such separate accounts as so audited
and (B) the reports of such audits by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
their separate accounts and the audits thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) undertake, or cause to
be undertaken, studies of (A) the Borrower's railway tariff and
costing structure; and (B) the manpower needs of NRZ with a view
to developing an appropriate training program for NRZ staff; each
in accordance with terms of reference agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1982,
and March 31, 1982, respectively, reports on the conclusions and
recommendations arrived at as a result of such studies; and (iii)
allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to study the said reports
and exchange views thereon with the Borrower prior to any action
on such reports being taken by the Borrower.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that NRZ and CMED
do not make any alterations of substance to their rehabilitation
imports program for the period June 30, 1981 through June 30,
1983, without giving the Bank prior notice of proposed alterations
of substance to the said program and the reasons therefor and
allowing the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
proposal; and
(b) the Borrower undertakes that in the event that its
resources are not adequate to finance in full NRZ's and CMED's
investment programs, it will give priority to financing the


﻿-6-
rehabilitation imports program referred to in sub-paragraph (a)
above.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of NRZ or CMED or for the suspen-
sion of their operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date AL$MV    e/ , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Private Bag 7705
Causeway
Salisbury, Zimbabwe
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              MINFIN RH 2141
Salisbury                           Zimbabwe


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ZIMBABWE
By                    '     4        CJI
Authorized Rep esentative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
B  li'lRegional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, tools          31,400,000        100% of foreign
and spare parts                            expenditures
under Part A of
the Project
(2) Equipment, spare           3,800,000        100% of foreign
parts and                                  expenditures
vehicles under
Part B of the
Project
(3) Technical Assistance       6,800,000        100% of foreign
under Part A of the                        expenditures
Project
TOTAL        42,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, !n an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $4,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after February 19, 1981;


﻿-9-
(b) payments made for expenditures for goods to be supplied
under a contract which any official bilateral or multi-lateral.
agency shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(c) payments made for expenditures for goods of an aggregate
value of less than the equivalent of $5,000; and
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   The provision of foreign exchange for the importa-
tion into Zimbabwe and, where necessary, the installa-
tion of essential spare parts, track maintenance and
signalling equipment and tools for NRZ; and
Part B:   The provision of foreign exchange for the importation
into Zimbabwe of essential vehicles, road rehabilitation
and maintenance equipment and spare parts for CMED.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1987
through   August 15, 2001                   1,400,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                              1.45%
before maturity
More than three years but                               2.90%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                5.30%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                              7.70%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                            8.65%
riot more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                                9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the Borrower shall cause
NRZ and CMED to procure goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall cause NRZ and CMED to
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the*first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall cause NRZ and CMED to
provide the necessary information to update such notice so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   The Borrower shall cause contracts to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan under Part A of the Project for: (i)
goods costing less than the equivalent of $20,000, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000; (ii) spare parts to be
financed retroactively; and (iii) critical spare parts which are
available only from the original or from a limited number of
manufacturers, to be awarded by NRZ on the basis of international
or local shopping.
2.   The Borrower shall cause contracts to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan under Part B of the Project for goods
costing less than the equivalent of $20,000, up to an aggregate


﻿- 14 -
amount equivalent to $250,000 to be awarded by CMED on the basis
of international or local shopping.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to each contract for goods costing more
than the equivalent of $50,000, the Borrower shall, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account,
cause NRZ or CMED to furnish to the Bank two conformed copies of
such contract together with a brief report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, on the procedures followed in procuring
such contract. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
the procedures followed in procuring such contract are incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower of, and
state the reasons for, any such determination.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall cause NRZ or CMED to
furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, the reasons for the award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. If the Bank
shall have reasonably determined that the procedures followed in
procuring such contract are inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the Bank shall promptly
inform the Borrower of, and state the reasons for, any such
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L    4day of           198 .
FOR SECRETARY


