RESTRICTED
Report No. SOL: Ap - 8
This Report has been prepared for
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK   I uhe exclusive use ot ihe Bank
..  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
APPRAISAL
0r THE
GUADALCANAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IN
SOLOMON ISLANDS
tk-'
October 1984
.  -                                   .      ,   . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of 31 August 1984)
Currency Unit            -          Solomon Island Dollar (SI$)
SIS1.00                  =          US$0.77
US$1_00                  =          SI$1.30
For the purpose of calculation in .his Report a rate of US$1.00 to
SISI .23 - which was the prevailing rate at the time of appraisal
(30 April 1984) - has been used. The Solomon Island Dollar was
introduced in 1977. The exchange rate is determined on the basis
of a weighted basket of currencies of the major trading partners of
Solomon Islands.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT       -    Average Daily Traffic
MCPU      -    Ministry of Communications and Public Utilities
NPC       -    National Planning Council
NPO       -    National Planning Office
PMC       -    Project Management Committee
PHO       -    Project Management Office
RBS       -    Roads and Bridges Section
VOC       -    Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd       -    Vehicles per day
NOTE
The Fiscal Year of the Government coincides with the calendar
year.



PROJECT FOCUS. DESIGN AND RATIONALE
Development objectives of the Government focus mainly on
diversification of agricultural production including forestry and
fishing to enable the country to absorb fluctuations in the world
market price of primary commodities like copra, palm oil. cocoa, fish
and timber. Its development programs also aim to increase production
of agro-industries based on locally available resources including timber
and fish to expand value added by these products. Recognizing that
adequate transport facilities are needed to help attain these objectives.
the Government in its development plan has given high priority to the
transport and communications sector with emphasis on road transport.
Road transport accounts for almost 50 per cent of freight and passenger
movements; the rest is served mostly by shipping. Considering the
resource constraints, the Government's strategy in the road subsector
is to improve the existing network rather than to expand it, except for
provision of individual penetration roads to serve agricultural opportu-
nity areas.
The proposed Project will improve the road system in the
Guadalcanal Plains -- the country's most important agricultural area
with the highest population density - and will provide less costly and
more reliable transportation services there. As the Project road
carries traffic volumes substantially higher than for any other road in
the country, the Government has accorded high priority to the Project.
The Project area includes large scale rice and oil palm plantations as
well as smallholder copra and cocoa farms; rootcrops are also grown for
domestic consumption. With a view to realizing the full potential of
the Plains, the Government is carrying out a number of agricultural
research projects which aim to provide smallholder farmers with bett-r
and more pest-resistant seed varieties of copra, cocoa and vegetable-.
In addition, it is providing extension services and incentives for
livestock raising centers with the assistance of foreign agencies
including the Bank. The private sector is likewise active in the area
and has plans for Increased production of palm oil and cocoa on a
relatively large scale to serve export markets. The extent of the road
network in the area is generally adequate but most road sections are in
poor condition and several rivers are without bridges. These factors
result in high transport costs and services are often interrupted for
long periods during the wet season.
The Project consists of rehabilitation and improvement of
90 km of road mostly passing through the Guadalcanal Plains together
with construction of bridges across three major rivers. Thirty km of
the road will be paved with bituminous surface and the remaining length
will be improved to gravel standard. The Project also includes provi-
sion of equipment and consultant services to assist the Fxecuting Agency
in implementing the Project and to provide on-the-job training for local
staff in all aspects of road construction and maintenance.



The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$6.5 million
equivalent including a foreign exchange component of US$5 million. The
proposed loan of US$2 million from the Bank's Special Funds resources
will finance US$1.75 million of the foreign exchange cost and US$0.25
million of the local cost of the Project. The balance of the foreign
exchange cost of US$3.25 million together with a portion of the local
currency cost amounting to US$0.25 million equivalent will be financed
from other external sources. The remaining local currency cost of US$1
million equivalent will be met by the Government from its own resources.
The principal quantifiable benefits are savings in vehicle
operating costs; of lesser importance are benefits to generated traffic
and reductions in road maintenance costs.  Non-quantifiable benefits
in the form of improved accessibility to health services, educational
institutions, marketing facilities and other social amenities - will
accrue to a rural population of 25,000 people living in the immediate
influence area of the Project. The Executing Agency - the Ministry of
Communications and Public Utilities - will likewise benefit from
on-the-job training provided to its staff by consultants.
The Project is economically viable and socially desirable. It
has no significant technical or economic risks and it is not expected to
have any adverse environmental effects. The arrangements for timely
implementation of the Project are considered adequate.



Table of Contents
Page
MAP: Project Road
I.    INTRODUCTION                                              1
II.    BACKGROUND                                                2
A.   The Transport Sector                                 2
B.   The Road Subsector                                  3
C.   The Project Area                                    7
D.   Traffic Trends and Projections                       9
E.  Existing Roaa Conditions and
the Proposed Project                               10
Ill.    THE PROJECT                                              12
A.   Objectives                                          12
B.  Scope                                                12
C.  Project Description                                  13
D.  Cost Estimates                                       14
E.  Financing Plan                                       16
F.  Environmental and Road Safety Aspects                17
IV.   EXECUTING AGENCY AND PROJECT IMPLEMENIION                 18
A.  Executing Agency                                     18
B.  Implementation Arrangements                          19
C.  Consultants                                         20
D.  Procurement                                         20
E.  Implementation Schedule                             20
F.  Land Acquisition                                    21
G.  Haintenance                                          21
H.   Accounting and Auditing                             22
I.   Reporting and Monitoring                            22
J.   Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation           22
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                      23
A.   Objectives                                          23
B.   Benefits and Beneficiaries                          23
C.  Estimation of Economic Returns                       24
D.  Sensitivity Tests                                    25
E.  Project Risks                                        25
VI.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                          26
APPENDIXES                                              28



1. INTRODUCTION
1.        Agriculture is the mainstay of Solomon Islands' economy and
accounts- for over 70 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Therefore, the Government's overall development objective is to
strengthen its economic base through increased and diversified agri-
cultural production. To enhance agricultural production and support
rural development, the Government's strategy in the road subsector is to
improve the road transport system by rehabilitating existing roads and
constructing penetration roads to open up new agricultural opportunity
areas.   Most of the country's economic activity is concentrated in the
island of Guadalcanal, where the Government plans to improve the main
road (Guadalcanal road) serving the fertile plains along the northern
coast.
2.        At the request of the GoveryBent, the Bank in May 1983
approved a technical assistance grant-  to undertake a feasibility
study for improvement of 106 km of the existing Guadalcanal road and
construction of 27 new penetration road (70 'km) from Aola to Marau Sound.
While the study- confirmed the need for improvement of the existing
road, the proposed new penetration road was found to be not economically
viable. A Fact-Finding Mission visited the Project area in January-
February 1984 and, after an in-depth review of the study, formulated the
proposed Project in conjunction with the Government.
3.        Following fact-finding, a Bank Mission composed of P. K. Thomas
(Senior Project Engineer) Mission Leader, P. Nielsen (Project Economist)
and T. Baker (Mechanical Engineer/S57ff Consultant) visited Solomon
Islands from 24 April to 2 May 1984-  to appraise the proposed Project.
This report is based on the feasibility study, discussions with
Government officials and the Mission's findings in the field.
1/   TA No. 515-SOL in the amount of $197,000.
2/   The Consultants for the study were Roughton & Partners, U.K.
31   The Mission was assisted at Headquarters by 0. S. Ward, Jr.
(Country Officer) and B. Purdue (Counsel).



2
II. BACKGROUND
A.   The Transport Sector
1. General
4.        Solomon Islands comprises a scattered archipelago stretching
over a 1,450 km chain in a south-easterly direction from Papua New
Guinea. The six main islands - Choiseul, New Georgia, Santa Ysabel,
Malaita, Guadalcanal and Makira - constituting 80 per cent of the
country's total land area of 27,600 sq km, have rain-forested mountain
ranges of mainly volcanic origin, deep narrow valleys and limited
coastal strips, while the numerous other smaller islands are volcanic or
coral atolls. Although the population growth rate - 3.4 per cent per
annum -- is high, the population density is low with an overall average
of 9 persons per sq km and approximately 80 per cent of the present
population of 258,000 live dispersed in rural areas. The capital,
Honiara, located on Guadalcanal is the only major urban area and it has
a population of about 23,000. The majority of Solomon Islanders are
closely associated with traditional social and economic systems
involving subsistence farming with shifting agricultural practice and a
strong attachment to land which is communally owned by members of the
clans (customary land tenure).
5.        During 1980-1982 the economy remained stagnant y7inly due to
decreasing demand for the country's major export products- caused by
international recession and consequently the annual real growth of GDP
slowed down. This trend, however, was reversed in 1983 with GDP rising
by 3.2 per cent in real terms following improved vegetable oil prices
and a record fish catch and demand. Agriculture including livestock,
forestry and fishirg accounts for 70 per cent of GDP, provides 95 per
cent of the total value of exports and is the main source of income for
over 90 per cent of the couutry's population. The major primary
products are timber, fish, copra, palm oil and rice (see Appendix 1).
Logging activity has increased over recent years and provided 26 per
cent of the country's export earnings in 1983. Considering, however,
the present high cutting rate and the limited reforestation efforts
made, it is expected that earnings from logging will substantially
decrease from the end of this decade. In 1983, fish accounted for 41
per cent, and copra and palm oil constituted 24 per cent of the
country's total export value (see Appendix 2). On the import side
petroleum products and manufactured goods accounted for 50 per cent of
the total value of imports.
6.        The country's transport system which has emerged over the
vears is characterized by the relative dominance of sea transport since
population and production centers are scattered over numerous islands,
1/  Fish, logs, palm oil and copra.



3
mainly along the coastal strips.  The Mission estimate-/ that the formal
domestic sea transport sector, which excludes motorized minor boats and
canoes, carries 55 per cent of total freight ton-km and 47 per cent of
total passenger-km, while road transportation accounts for 45 per cent
of freight and 48 per cent of passenger traffic. Although domestic
aviation only accounts for about 5 per cent of passenger-km and a
negligible fraction of freight transport, it provides extensive links
betweewthe islands through 21 air fields and two international air-
ports.- More information on non-highway modes of transport is given
in Appendix 3.
2. Transport Planning and Coordination
7.        Transport planning and coordination at the national level
are the responsibility of the National Planning Office (NPO) under
the office of the Prime Minister. NPO has a separate cell to deal
with foreign aid projects. Proposals for improvement of trans3?rt
infrastructure are generally initiated at the provincial level- and
submitted to the NPO. After discussions with the Ministry of Commu-
nications and Public Utilities (MCPU) -- the Ministry responsible for
all public works including transport infrastructure at the national
level -- and the concerned provincial authority, NPO carries out a
review of the proposal on economical and technical grounds. Based on
such review the proposal is submitted by NPO to the National Planning
Council (NPC) -- the ultimate economic planning authority in the countrv
headed by the Prime Minister - for consideration. Following approval
by NPC, the financing source is identified and NPO includes the project
in the annual development program and appropriate budgetary provisions
are then made by the Ministry of Finance.
B.   The Road Subsector
I.. Development Strategy
8.          The overall long term objective of the Government for the
road subsector is to provide each major island with a system of roads
linking its ports, airports, development areas and centers of population
as well as to develop the capability to maintain roads at a satisfactory
level. The Government further recognizes that its financial position
restricts road construction activities mainly to rehabilitation of exist-
ing roads rather than extension of the network, except for provision of
penetration roads to open up agricultural opportunity areas. It is also
aware of the urgent need for regular preventive road maintenance to
1/   Based on information obtained from the Marine Division, MCPU
traffic count data and the feasibility study report.
2/   Henderson near Honiara and Munda (Western Province).
3/ Solomon Islands is divided into seven provinces -- Western, Santa
Ysabel, Central Islands, Guadalcanal, Malaita, Makira/Ulawa, and
Temotu -- each administered by a local government body known as the
Provincial Assembly which is responsible to the central Government.
Honiara, the national capital, also has the status of a province
and is administered by a town council.



4
preserve assets already invested in roads.-/   The Government attaches
high priority to the improvement of the main road on the northern coast
of Guadalcanal which is in an extremely poor condition and carries more
traffic than any other road in the country. The Government also plans
to improve the main road on the west coast Hf Malaita island which
carries relatively high volumes of traffic.-
9.        Annual development expenditure on road construction has shown
a fluctuating pattern (SI$0.04 million to 1 million) over the past five
years in view of the varying external aid flows -- the main source of
financing for road construction. In 1984, expenditure for road construc-
tion is estimated at SI$1.6 million corresponding to 6 per cent of the
annual development budget of SI$28 million. Since the country is heavily
dependent on foreign aid to finance development programs, the realization
of the Government's road improvement plans will largely depend on timely
availability of such aid funds.
2. The Road Network
10.       Solomon Islands has about 1,300 km of public roads, 170 km of
which are classified as urban roads, apart from private roads (520 km)
for plantation and logging operations (see Appendix 4). The majority of
public roads are located on the two main islands, Guadalcanal (548 km)
and Malaita (350 km), while Western Province has a high share of private
roads (400 km) for logging operations. A total of 100 km of all public
roads are bitumen sealed, 93 km of which are in Guadalcanal. While the
extent of the main road network is considered fairly complete in the
sense that it connects major population centers, ports and air fields,
the majority of the roads are in a deteriorated condition with poor
quality surfaces and inadequate drainage. This is partly due to poor
maintenance mainly because of limited financial resources and equipment;
this deficiency will be attended to in the proposed Project (see para
48). The penetration and other rural roads are in an even worse condi-
tion and are mostly accessible to tractors and four wheel drive vehicles
onlv. The use of many roads is further constrained by numerous river
crossings with only natural fords where heavy rain prevents movement for
a considerable part of the year.
3.   Vehicle Fleet
11.       In 1982, there were 3,080 vehicles registered in Solomon
Islands of which 2,350 were privately owned (see Appendix 5). The
majority of vehicles are registered in Honiara with small proportions
licensed in Auki and Gizo. Since unlicensed vehicles are allowed to
operate outside the islands where registration is undertaken and as some
illegal operation (without registration) takes place, particularly
outside Guadalcanal, the fleet size indicated above is considered ar
underestimate. Of the total number of private vehicles in 1982, 30 per
cent were trucks licensed to carry goods only, 9 per cent were public
service vehicles registered to carry both goods and passengers, 46 per
I/   Presently maintenance operations are only initiated when the
condition of a road or bridge reaches a critical state.
2/   Aid sources have not yet been identified.



5
cent were private cars and taxis while 8 per cent were motorcycles; the
remaining vehicles were composed of tractors, trailers and mobile road
construction equipment. Since 1980, when customs duties on cars and
motorcycles were substantially increased, the fleet growth rate has been
much less than before; overall annual growth of the private fleet during
1981-1982 was less than one per cent as against 6.8 per cent during
1978-1982.
12.       All vehicles more than two years old are required to pass an
annual road-worthiness test, except for taxis which are tested every
three months at the MCPU motor pool prior to issuance of the annual
license. The Mission found the inspection procedures generally
satisfactory. However, as the country has no established vehicle
registration procedure and no first time registration fee, vehicles are
merely licensed annually on production of an inspection certificate and
proof of insurance in respect of third party liability. The Government
recognizes that proper vehicle registration procedures with permanent
license plates, an annual sticker system and vehicle registration fee
will improve the revenue proceeds and control vehicle use, and is
presently initiating steps to introduce such a system.
4.   Road Transport Industry
13.       Public passenger transportation services are provided by a
formal sector consisting of privately operated buses and taxis. Bus
services are, however, restricted mostly to Honiara township limits in
Guadalcanal where three licensed companies operate with 8 large buses
and 5 minibuses. No subsidy is provided by the Government which on an
arbitrary basis regulates fares and route licensing. Despite some
resistance from informal passenger transport operators, in April 1984
the provincial Government granted permission to two of the bus companies
to extend services to Tambea in the west (45 km from Honiara) and to
Vouza bridge in the east (37 km from Honiara). These extensions of bus
services have substantially improved the safety of passenger transport
since the informal carriers, which were the only ones available hitherto,
comprise open trucks without any seating facility. Apart from these
public carriers, licensed taxis provide short distance services for
which fares are negotiable due to lack of meters; more than 80 per cent
of all registered taxis operate in Honiara. Occasionally, a tourist bus
operates between Honiara and the small resort at Tambea.
14.       The trucking industry is dominated by private company-owned
vehicles, particularly within the logging, rice and oil palm plantation
sectors as well as for transport of fuel. 'For hire' services are pro-
vided by two medium size firms in Guadalcanal and by a number of small-
scale operators with a maximum of 3 trucks per owner in all the major
islands. The majority of trucks in Guadalcanal carry a mixture of
passengers and freight with smallholders accompanying their copra, cocoa
or other produce for sale at the Honiara market. Most of the trucks in
operation do not present any particular problem in regard to the maximum
permissible axle loads of 7.7 mt per single axle and 14.6 mt per tandem
axle. During axle load surveys conducted as part of the feasibility
study it was observed that only 6 per cent of the truck axles in
Guadalcanal exceeded the legal load limits and then by a maximum of 20



6
per cent. However, the Government proposes to utilize the portable
loadometer provided under the technical assistance to check overloading
and enforce axle load regulations.
15.       At present, the Government is not enforcing any formal trans-
port tariffs but is contemplating the establishment, in the long term,
of an entity to approve applications for fare and rate increases on a
cost plus basis together with route licensing to avoid excessive compe-
tition. The prevailing passenger fare per km is SIe2.0 by bus within
Honiara, and SIO3.3 by bus and SIC4.9 by truck between Honiara and
Ruavatu . The higher fares for truck services are due to shortage of
bus transport facilities in the area. Since trucks for hire are running
at low capacity utilization, the rates quoted for freight are correspon-
dingly high - SI¢50 per ton-km from Honiara to Ngalimbiu and SIC70 from
Ngalimbiu to Aola. The varying fares take into consideration the
condition of the road and the corresponding variation in the vehicle
operating costs.
16.       Regular traffic counts have been carried out by MCPU since
1970 for the existing Guadalcanal road. A review of the results of
these counts reveals an overall annual traffic grovth rate over the
past five years of 7 per cent    higher close to Honiara and lower for
the rural sections of the road -- almost coinciding with the growth
rate for the private vehicle fleet over the same period (see para 11).
Such a high growth rate is not considered likely to continue in the
futuire as rice, oil palm and cocoa plantations are already established
and their future development plans are modest in scope. Comparison with
fuel consumed annually for automotive purposes is not readily possible
as statistics are compiled on the basis of importations which vary
according to stock replenishment needs.
17.      Accidents on the roads of the country have increased over
the years, particularly in Guadalcanal where 302 accidents took place
in 1983, of which 61 involved personal injuries, with 3 fatalities
and 93 persons injured. While the number of accidents has been on
the increase, the severity has fortunately been decreasing modestly.
However, the annual accident density on Guadalcanal roan? -- 0.8 per km
-- is considered high for such a limited vehicle fleet.-   The Govern-
ment is seriously concerned about this development and is taking steps
to coordinate law enforcing agencies' efforts towards accident preven-
tive measures such as better sign posts, speed limits and spot checks to
apprehend intoxicated and overspeeding drivers, combined with an inform-
ation drive to increase the public's awareness of accident prevention.
1/   No comparable data are available in the region; however, in
Northern Europe a figure of 0.3 is usual for similar traffic
volumes. The annual number of fatalities in Guadalcanal is 1.3 per
1000 registered vehicles compared to 5.4 in Papua New Guinea, 2.7
in Indonesia, 1.1 in Malaysia (West), 0.5 in Australia and 0.4 in
the United Kingdom.



7
5.   Revenues and Expenditure
18.         Revenues raisca by the Government include customs duties
on vehicles, spare parts and accessories, fuel and lubricants as vell
as annual vehicle license fees and the fees for driving license (see
Appendix 6, item A). The annual vehicle license fee varies from SI$80
for a medium car to SI$320 for a medium truck. Government vehicles
are, however, not required to pay any license fee. Road expenditure
is financed through annual budgetary allocations of the Government.
Revenue from road users, even disregarding import duties on vehicles,
is of sufficient magnitude to cover current road expenditure, including
construction and maintenance (see Appendix 6, items B and C). Since
the fuel tax structure was changed in 1983 resulting in an almost 50 per
cent reduction in revenue, the Government may have to consider an upward
adjustment of the tax to generate enough revenue to cover future years'
expected relatively higher expenditure.
6.   Administration
19.       The responsibility for construction, maintenance and admini-
stration of the Guadalcanal road from Lambi to Aola is vested in MCPU.
All other public roads fall within the jurisdiction of the respective
provincial governments. The civil engineering activities of MCPU are
organized in a traditional 'line' system under the Chief Civil Engineer
(CCE) who reports to the Under Secretary (Works). There are two main
activity groups -- design and works - each under the charge of a
Principal Civil Engineer (PCE). Design of roads is the responsibility
of PCE (Design); however, capability of the Design Section is limited
(see Para 39).  Road construction and maintenance activities are carried
out by the Roads and Bridges Section (RBS) under the PCE (Works). On
account of limited financial resources, capital works undertaken in
recent years have been declining and consequently, the activities
carried out by RBS are dominated by maintenance works. RBS, however,
has no established program for maintenance of roads; it has been mostly
reacting to emergency situations on an ad-hoc basis. There is also need
for significant improvement of the maintenance programs and techniques
being followed by RBS (see paras 48-49).
20.       There are no major road contractors in the country.  The
practice has generally been to carry out road works departmentally
by force account; minor works are sometimes undertaken by small local
contractors. In the past, some bridges have also been conctructed
departmentally; however, the present staff has limited experience in
such works and consequently foreign contractors have been engaged
for some major bridge construction works currently under way with
Australian assistance.
C. The Project Area
1.   General
21.      The Project road was selected for feasibility study on the
basis of a preliminary screening considering the road condition and
traffic volumes which suggested that its improvement would be more



8
viable than that of other roads in Solomon Islands. Improvement of the
road forms part oi the Government's plan to systematically improve road
infrastructure in the northern part of Guadalcanal to provide all-weather
acCess to existing agricultural areau. markets and a&dnistrative centers
and to 1oweirtransport costs for passengers and goods.  The areas served
by the Project road extend from Poha to Tambea, west of Honiara, and from
Ngalimbiu to Kombito, east of Honiara - a total length of 90 km. Although
the combined area comprises a uniform flat strip of land along the north
coast, the characteristics of the areas west and east of Honiara are
somewhat different, with activities in the eastern portion covering the
highly fertile Guadalcanal Plains being more pronounced. The combined
influence area, which is bordered on the south by mountain ranges with
tropical rainforest and on the north by the Solomon Sea, is crossed by
numerous rivers. In the west the road continues beyond Tambea to TLami
with little traffic on it. The Guadalcanal Plains is the country's most
important economic area with the highest population concentration and
with large scale agricultural activities including rice and oil palm
plantations as well as smallholder copra and cocoa farming. Population
densities in the road influence area are also higher than in other parts
of the country; the total population in the influence area is estimated
to be 25,000.
2.   The Development Potential
22.       The dominant crop in the Project area is copra; the remaining
cultivated land is devoted to root crops, paddy and oil palms. Logging
is also an important activity in the eastern portion of the influence
area. Since copra yields are low at less than 1.0 mt per ha because of
the old age of trees and traditional farming practices, the planters
have resorted to cocoa intercropping with promising results. The oil
palm plantation, under Solomon Islands Plantations Ltd. (SIPL) estab-
lished in 1970 on a 75-year leasehold, harvests oil palm fruits from
3,300 ha with a further 1,400 ha under development. Present annual pro-
duction amounts to 87,000 mt of palm fruits corresponding to 23,000 mt
of palm oil and kernel, and 750 mt of dry cocoa beans. At full develop-
ment in 1989. the palm fruits production of 105,000 mt will correspond
to 30,000 mt of oil and kernel while the cocoa production in terms of
dry beans will increase to 1,000 mt. The palm fruits are collected from
rhree plantation areas along the Project road between Ngalimbiu and Vouza
bridge and brought to the oil mill near Vouza bridge from where the oil
is transported in 10 mt tankers by road to Honiara. Paddy is grown on a
commercial scale with mechanized operations for sowing, weeding and
harvesting on 1,000 ha; the production is distributed domestically to
the entire country through Honiara. Apart from some of the private
enterprises, agricultural research is carried out in the Project area by
the Government to assist the smallholder sector with better varieties of
coconuts and cocoa plants. The Bank also is assisting the agricultural
sector including farmers in theL?7rea through provision of extension
services and livestock centers.-
if  Loan Nos. 646/647-SOL(SF):  Agricultural Development Project, approved
in 1983.



9
D.  Traffic Trends and Projections
23.       Pas-anger and goods transport between Tambea in the west and
Kombito in the east is almost exclusively by road and no significant
traffic iaoves by sea. Even when Mberande, Sasaa, Mbokokimbo and other
rivers without bridges are impassable due to high floods only a small
portion of traffic is diverted to sea transport; generally passenger
travel and goods transport are merely delayed until the river flows
subside. Shipping services along the coast from Honiara to Avu Avu on
the southern coast (via Marau Sound), consisting of a weekly round trip
by a government ship when it is operational and a private ship once a
month as well as some unscheduled private boats, are mostly unreliable.
The private boats include fiberglass canoes powered by outboard motors
calling at Aola and Rere when freight and passenger demand justifies it.
Air transport between Honiara, Marau Sound and Avu Avu is llimted and
does not compete with road transport. The feasibility study established
4 count stations to update the MCPU traffic counts (see para 16) together
with roadside origin-destination surveys at 3 points and axle load
surveys at 2 locations. The results expressed in average daily traffic
(ADT) for 1983 and the traffic variation over the relevant sections are
indicated in Table 1.
Table 1: TRAFFIC VOLUES (ADT) 1983
Cars,        Light      Heavy
Section              Pick-ups       Trucks      Trucks    Total
1.  Tambea-Ndoma             82            22          24        128
2.  Ndoma-Poha Br.          109            29          32        170
3.  Ngalimbium-Vouza Br.    233           156         156        545
4.  Vouza Br.-Mberande R     91            99          79        269
5. Mberande R.-Kombito       33            -           -          33
The highest traffic volume was observed on the paved section from
Ngalimbiu to Vouza bridge (see para 25) where ADT was 545 vehicles per
day (vpd) of which 29 per cent were heavy trucks. The other sections.
apart from section 5, had traffic volumes in the range of 128 to 269
vpd, of which about 25 per cent were trucks.
24.       The feasibility study's projection of normal traffic was based
on factors such as population and income growth as well as the likcly
development of economic activities in the influence area of the Project
road. Passenger transport growth was based on an annual increase of
population, rise in real income per capita and income elasticity of
demand for transport. Likewise for growth in freight transport, the
relationship between estimated increase in agricultural and agro-bosed
production in the Project area and the expected movements of commodities
has been employed (see Appendix 7).  Since transporLation of passengers
and freight within the Project area is usually carried out in mixed
opera<-ons, the feasibiliLy study deemed it appropriate in the context
of Solomon Islands to combine passenger and freight transport to arrive
at a composite growth rate for all vehicular traffic. This composite



10
growth rate is estimated at 4 per cent per annum throughout the period
1983-2007 and the Mission considers this realistic on the basis of past
trends (see para 16) and the Government's efforts to increase agricultu-
ral production and raise incomes in the Project area. The future normal
motorized traffic (two axles and above), which is estimated on the basis
of present traffic and this annual growth rate, is given in sumary form
in Table 2 and in more detail in Appendix 8.
Table 2: PROJECTED NORMAL TRAFFIC (ADT) 1988-2007
Section                     1988            2000            2007
1. Tambea-Ndoma                   160              250             330
2. Ndoma-Poha                     210              330             440
3.  Ngalimbiu-Vouza Br.-          660            1,060           1,400
4.  Vouza Br.-Mberande R.         330              520             690
5.  Mberande R.-Kombito            40               60              90
No diversion of traffic from coastal shipping or air is foreseen.
Generated traffic was estimated on the basis of the relationship between
transport cost reductions as a result of road improvements and a price
elasticity of demand estimated at 0.5, This relationship would produce
generated traffic of about 20 per cent of normal traffic on the average.
which is considered reasonable.
E.   Existiug Road Conditions and the Proposed Project
25.       The Project road passes over flat terrain generally on a low
embankment for a total/distance of 90 km, from Tambea to Poha and from
Ngalimbiu to Kombito.-  The section from Poha to Tambea is a gravel
road in a very deteriorated condition due to inadequate pavement thick-
ness and poor drainage. In certain stretches the road is prone to
flooding, particularly in the vicinity of the Sasm river, as a result
of which access is difficult for several days during the wet season.
Road widths vary from 5 m to 8 m without any pronounced shoulders, and
the existing bridges  -  either Bailey type or of timber -  are all
single lane. The Project road on the eastern side of Honiara starts at
Ngalimbiu. From there until Vouza bridge (13 km) with bituminous pave-
ment (7 m wide) 9 km have deteriorated to a degree where rehabilitation
is urgently needed.  Further to the east, the road surface turns into 6 a
wide gravel in poor condition for 6 km length until the Mberande river
and from there the surfacing is 3 a wide gravel/earth in an unimproved
state for 39 km until Kombito where the existing road ends. The
Ngalimbiu- Kombito section also presents serious drainage problems;
1/  The relatively higher traffic volume on this section is due to the
increased economic activities associated with the oil palm
plantations in the area.
2/  The section between Poha and Ngalimbiu passing through Honiara has
already been paved to bituminous standard by the Government and is
being maintained reasonably well.



ii
since fou- major rivers -  Mberande. Mbokokiubo, Nggurambusu and Aola --
are not provided with bridges, traffic is frequently interrupted when
the rivers are in spate resulting in delays for several days at a time
during the wet season. The horizontal and vertical alignments of the
entire Project road are generally satisfactory.
26.       The principal recommendations of the feasibility study were:
(i) improvement of the road from Tambea to Ndoma (21 km) to generally 6 m
wide gravel standard and construction of a single lane low level concrete
bridge across the Sasaa river as well as rehabilitation of all timber
bridges; (ii) upgrading of the Ndoma-Poha section (15 km) and the Vouza
bridge - Mberande river section (6 km) with provision of a double bitumi-
nous surface treatment; (iii, minor improvement of 39 km of gravellearth
surface (3 m wide) from Mberande river to Kombito and construction of
single lane concrete and Bailey bridges across Mberande and Mbokoklmbo
rivers respectively; (iv) procurement of construction equipment for the
implementation of road works by departmental forces (see para 40); and
(v) provision of consultant services to assist in implementation of the
Project and to provide on-the-job training to staff of MCPU and the
provinces.  For the section of road from TLmbi to Tambea, the feasibility
study did not recommend any work (apart from strengthening of maintenance
efforts) since no improvement was justified economically. Recognizing
the low level of development potential east of Kombito and the small
economic returns anticipated, the proposed penetration road from Kombito
to Marau Sound also was not recommended.
27.       The Mission, in consultation with the Government, examined the
feasibility study recomuendations and found them acceptable. In addition,
the Mission and the Government considered that rehabilitation of 9 km of
the paved section between Ngalimbiu-Vouza bridge, which now shows signs
of severe deterioration, should be included in the Project. The Govern-
ment gave an assurance that an engineered ford across Nggurambusu river
and a timber bridge over Aola river would be constructed by MCPU from
its own resources before 31 December 1985 so that with the compleji2y of
the Project through travel on the Project road would be possible.- -
The Government and the Mission consider that the scope of the Project as
formulated is appropriate.
I/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 9.
2/ MCPU has experience in the construction of relatively simple
structures such as fords and timber bridges.



12
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
28.       The main objective of the Project is to provide reliable low-
cost transportation facilities in the Guadalcanal Plains - the most
fertile and economically important part of the country with potential
for further agricultural development - and thereby support the Govern-
ment's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production. The
Project will also enhance the capability of MCPU in maintenance of roads,
primarily through on-the-job training to be given to its personnel and
through equipment for road maintenance which will be available after
completion of the Project.
B.   Scope
29.       The Project consists of:
(i) Roads (see map at page (i))
(a)  Improvement of 21 km of gravel road from Tambea to Ndoma;
(b) Upgrading of 21 km of gravel road - 15 km from Ndoma to
Poha and 6 km from Vouza bridge to Mberande river -- to
bitumen sealed standard;
(e) Rehabilitation and upgrading of the damaged sections (9 km)
of the paved road from Ngalimbiu to Vouza bridge; and
Cd) Minor improvement of 39 km of gravel/earth road from
Mberande river to Kombito.
(ii) Bridges
Construction of bridges across Sasaa (50 m), Mberande (110 m),
and Mbokokinbo (121 m) rivers
(iii) Consultant Services
Provision of consultant services to assist the Executing
Agency in the implementation of the Project and to provide
on-the-job training to its staff.
(iv) Construction/Maintenance Equipment
Provision of equipment (including spare parts) for execution
of the proposed road works and maintenance of roads after
completion of the Project.



13
C.  Project Description
1.  Roads
30.       Under the Project, stretches of the Guadalcanal road totalling
90 km as mentioned in para 29(i) will be improved. The road width pro-
posed for the sections from Tambea to the Mberande river is generally
6 m except in the existing paved section where the present width of 7 m
will be maintained. In the section of road from the Mberande river to
Kombito, where minor improvement of the existing gravel/earth road is
proposed, the road width will be only 3 m with provision for passing
bays. These widths are considered adequate for present and projected
traffic.
31.       The road will be raised where necessary and side drains and
culverts provided to improve drainage. The road pavement will be
strengthened by providing,1 cement stabilized coral gravel base course
in the Ndoma-Poba sectlon' and a crushed stone base course in the
section between Vouza bgdge and the Mberande river where upgrading to
bitumen sealed standard- is envisaged. Minor improvement of the gravel/
earth road from the Mberande river to Kombito will comprise simple road
works with emphasis on drainage improvements, heavy grading of the
existing surface and placing gravel in selected sections f  required.
The existing paved stretch from Ngalimbiu to Vozza bridge- proposed
for rehabilitation and upgrading will be further investigated by the
consultants and the design for it will be prepared by them in consulta-
tion with the Government; the4yroposed design will be submitted to the
Bank for review and approval.-  Detailed engineering for all other
sections of road proposed for improvement/upgrading under the Project
has been completed.
2.   Bridges
32.       The three bridges 3yoposed will be single lane structures
with a carriageway of 3.5 m.-   To minimize cost, the bridges are so
designed that the approaches might be submerged temporarily in extreme
conditions of flood. Further the Sasaa and Mberande bridges will be low
level reinforced concrete structures which will allow traffic to pass
except during peak floods. However, since the Mbokokimbo bridge will
l/   Cement stabilized coral gravel base is more economical than crushed
stone base in this section.
2/   By a double surface treatment of bitumen and fine stone chips.
3/   This stretch was not included in the TA for feasibility study (see
para 27).
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6. para 7(c).
5/ The T44 Standard Vehicle Loading of the National Association of
Australian State Authorities (NASRA) has been used for the design
of Sasaa and Kberande bridges; however for the Mbokokimbo bridge,
75 per cent of this load (commonly known as T33) has been used
being the loading limit for the Bailey spans proposed.



14
have Bailey spans, it is designed as a high level bridge for which only
the foundations and substructure will be financed under the Project.
The Government will complete construction of the bridge using Bailey  1/2/
panels and timber decking released from the existing Ngalimbiu bridge.- -
3.   Consultant Services
33.       Consultant services (72 manmonths) will be provided under the
Project to assist the Executing Agency with construction management for
road works and construction supervision for bridge works. The consultants
will provide on-the-job training to the Executing Agency's staff and also
to selected personnel of the provinces on all aspects of road construction
and maintenance (see para 43). Support facilities, light vehicles, and
survey, laboratory and drawing office equipment needed by the consultants
will also be provided under the Project. Summary terms of reference for
the consultant services are given in Appendix 9.
4.   Construction/Maintenance Equipment
34.         Construction equipment required to carry out road works under
the Project using departmental forces will \7 provided as part of the
Project (see para 40).  A list of equipment- to be procured is given in
Appendix 10. The equipment selected is suitable also for maintenance of
roads.
D.  Cost Estimates
35.       The total cost of the Project -  including physical and price
contingencies, and service and other charges on the Bank loan during 4/
implementation but excluding the portion of prior technical assistance-
chargeable to the loan - is estimated at US$6.453 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange c iponent of US$4.953 million. The estimates
are suumarized in Table 3- .
_I   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 7(b).
2/  With the completion of the new Ngalimbiu bridge in June 1984
(constructed with Australian assistance), the existing bridge is to
be dismantled; the Bailey panels and timber decking released from
the existing bridge will be surplus since they have no alternative
use.
3/   Including spares totalling 25 per cent of the equipment value.
Spares for about 10 per cent of the equipment value will be
procured initially; the rest will be obtained in instalments
according to the needs during construction.
4/   TA No. 515-SOL for US$197,000 (see para 36).
5/ The portion of prior TA chargeable to the loan is also shown in
Table 3.



15
Table 3:  Cost Estimatesa/
(US$ Million)
Foreign      Local-/         Total
1.  Road Works                       0.50 /       0.945           1.454
2.  Bridge works                      0.703       0.234           0.937
3.  Equipment for Road Works          1.455       0.005           1.460
4.  Materials for Road Works          0.645         -             0.645
5.  Consultant Services              0.660        0.010           0.670
6.  Contingencies:
(a) Physical=,                  0 397 /      0.119           0.516
(b) Price Escalation            0.549        0.187-f         0.736
7.  Service and other charges&/      0.035         -              0.035
Sub-total                    4.953        1.500           6.453
8. Portion of prior TA chargeable
to loan                         0.047         -              0.047
Total                        5.000        1.500           6.500
al  Base costs are at April 1984 prices.
b/  Inclusive of duties and taxes which amount to about US$0.085 million
equivalent (1.3 per cent of total Project cost.)
c/  Excluding the cost of bitumen and other construction materials to be
imported.
d/  At 10 per cent for items 1-5.
e/ At 3.5 per cent for 1984, 8.0 per cent for 1985 and 9.0 per cent per
year for 1986 and 1987 for items 1-5.
f/  At 8.0 per cent for 1984 and 6.0 per cent per year for 1985-1987 for
items 1-5.
j/ On Bank loan of US$2 million during construction.
1/
The consultants' analysis of unit rates&- a-ad estimates of quantities
derived from detailed engineering formed the basis of the cost of civil
works. The estimated foreign cost of consultant services includes
remuneration, international travel and most of the local costs and are
based on the prevailing rates for such services in the country. The
1/   The Mission verified these rates on the basis of unit cost data for
similar items of work in the country and in Papua New Guinea, and
considered them reasonable.



16
costs of construction equipment reflect the current market prices for
the various items. Depreciation of construction equipment is excluded
from the road works cost as procurement of equipment is included as a
separate item. The local currency component mainly comprises cost of
labor and materials such as gravel and stone. Land acquisition is
minimal and the costs are negligible (see para 47).
E.   Financing Plan
36.       The total foreign exchange cost of the Project is estimated to
be US$4.953 million including US$0.035 million for service and other
charges on the Bank loan during construction. The technical assistance
of US$197,000 was approved by the Bank in May 1983 (TA No. 515-SOL) for
the feasibility study on the condition that if a loan eventually
materialized from the technical assistance, the amount of the technical
assistance in excess of US$150,000 would be incorporated in such loan.
With the addition of this excess amount (US$0.047 million), the total
foreign txcbange component will be US$5 million. The Government has
requested the Bank to provide from its Special Funds resources a loan of
US$2 million to cover portions of the foreign exchange and local costs
of the Project. It is expected that the balance of the foreign exchange
cost, namely US$3.25 million, together with a portion of the local cost
amounting to US$0.25 million will be provided by the International
Development Association (IDA) and the OPEC Fund on a joint co-financing
basis with the Bank. The Government will keep the Bank fully informed
of all developments in respect of co-financing for the Project. Arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank with regard to the provision of funds to
be coveredl y co-financing will be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan.-   It is proposed that a loan of US$2 million be provided
from the Bank's Special Funds resources to cover: (i) US$1.703 million
of the total foreign exchange cost of the Project including service and
other charges on the Bank loan during construction, (ii) US$0.25 million
of the total local cost and (iii) US$0.047 million of the Bank's prior
technical assistance grant for the feasibility study. The Government
has given an assurance that all funds in addition to those provided in
the Bank loan and co-financing to implement the Project in accordance
with the agreed implementation schedule (see para 49) will be made
available on a timely basis from its own resources.-  The Borrower
will be Solomon Islands. Based on the above, the financing plan will
be as in Table 4.
Table 4: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Bank      IDA     OPEC Fund   Government      Total
Foreign             1.75       1.75      1.5             -          5.0
Local               0.25       0.25       -             1.0         1.5
Total               2.00       2.00      1.5            1.0         6.5
1/   Loan Agreement, Section 6.01.
2/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.02.



17
F.   Environmental and Road Safety Aspects
37.       The Project will not have any significant adverse environmental
effects since the road will follow the existing alignment and improved
drainage will reduce flooding. The likely increase in operating speed
resulting from road improvement may have some adverse implications on
traffic safety; this is expected to be offset by removal of the hazard
associated with the present dusty/slippery road surface.



18
[V. EXECUTINC AGENCY AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Executing Agency
38.       MCPU will be the Executing Agency for the Project.  It has
an Under Secretary (Works). assisted by a Chief Civil Engineer (CCE).
a Chief Mechanical Engineer (CME) and a Chief Architect in charge of
the civil, mechanical and architectural divisions respectively,
responsible among other things, for the construction and maintenance
of the Guadalcanal road from Lambi to Aola (see Appendix 11 for organi-
zation chart). At present, the aforesaid three divisions and the head-
quarters have a regular staff strength of about 600 (16 expatriates and
the rest local staff) including 13 engineers, 2 of whom are locals. The
remaining staff is largely composed of works officers, foremen, overseers,
artizans, drivers, operators, draftsmen and surveyors. The Government
has a program to localize gradually all staff positions. There are 18
students from Solomon Islands presently at the University of Technology
at Lae in Papua New Guinea undergoing studies in various branches of
engineering; on completion of studies, they are likely to join MCPU from
1985 onwards. It is expected, however, to be several years before all
senior positions can be filled by qualified local staff. Meanwhile,
expatriate staff are recruited on contract basis for senior vacant
positions under bilateral aid programs to assist MCPU in carrying out
its responsibilities.
39.       Within MCPU, the Roads and Bridges Section (RBS) carries out
the construction and maintenance of roads. This section comprises five
field units - one each for roads, bridges and air fields and two for
special projects. Design support is given by the Design Section under
CCE. Design capability of this section is, however, limited; conse-
quently, when the task is too large or complex for its resources, con-
sultants are engaged. RBS has no construction or maintenance equipment
of its own; such equipment is hired from the central MCPU plant pool as
and when required.  The Mechanical Engineering Division under CME 1ys
respon- sible for the central plant pool and mechanical workshop.-
The technical staff of the workshop and RBS is regarded as skilled
mainly by virtue of experience over the years in the department; many
of them have not received any formal training. Recognizing the urgent
need to improve the skills of its technical staff, particularly plant
operators, mechanics, technicians and foremen, in January 1983 the
Government commenced an active training program through an expatriate
Training Officer working with MCPU under Australian assi3tance. This
program, which is confined mainly to training in basic skills, has
started yielding results, but further assistance will be needed,
particularly for more intensive on-the-job training which will be
provided under the Project (see para 43).
1/  In addition to the main plant pool and workshop at Honiara, MCPU
is also maintaining such facilities on a smaller scale at Auki
(Malaita Province), Gizo (Western Province), Kira Kira
(Makira/Ulawan Province) and Santa Cruz (Temotu Province).



19
R_   Implementation Arrangements
40.       Following a detailed assessment of the implementation arrange-
ments and considering the small size and simple technical nature of the
road works involved, the Bank agreed with the Government's proposal that
the road works under the Project be carried out departmentally using its
own forces through RBS within MCPU, with construction management assist-
ance from consultants and using equipment to be procured for the purpose.
In the context of Solomon Islands, this is considered to be the most
appropriate arrangement to implement road works under the Project. The
bridge works will be carried out through contract (see para 45).
41.       The Mission made an assessment of the personnel required to
satisfactorily implement the Project giving due regard to the other com-
mitments of RBS. Since RBS has only maintenance jobs in hand and has
plans for no other major construction work in the immediate future, a
number of experienced personnel could be made available to the Project.
The Government has given an assurance that additional personnel as
required will be drawn from other divisions/sections of MCPU and an
adequately staffed Project Management Office (PMO) will be established
by 31 December 1984 with an e"erienced senior engineer as Project
Manager on a full time basis.- Until then the CCE will act as Project
Manager and will be responsible for all procurement action. The consul-
tants, a survey team and other supporting technical and administrative
staff will be assigned to PMO. The Government has given an assurance that
before commencement of construction, at least three adequately staffed
field sub-divisions will also be set up under the Project Manager.-
The MCPU workshop at Honiara will provide the required support services
for repair and maintenance of construction equipment. A full-time
accountant will be attached to PMO for the duration of implementation.
During the initial start up phase of the Project, costing and accounting
systems will be established on the basis of Bank requirements by a con-
sultant (accountant), who will also provide training to the Project
accountant. The organization chart of the proposed Project implementa-
tion unit comprising PMO, field sub-divisions, consultants and support
services is in Appendix 12. The Mission considers that with such a
Project implementation unit and assistance provided by consultants (see
para 43), MCPU will be capable of executing the Project satisfactorily.
42.       PMO will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the
Project and for all activities such as preparation of designs, procure-
ment of equipment, prequalification of contractors for bridge works,
invitation of tenders, evaluation of bids, supervision of construction
including quality control and monitoring of construction activities. It
will also be responsible for the preparation of an annual work program
and budgetary requests. In its activities, PMO will be guided by a Prolect
Management Committee (PMC) comprising senior officials of the Central and
Provincial Governments which will be set up by the Government before
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 2.
2/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 3.



20
31 Decemr 1984 under the chairmanchip of the Under Secretary (Works)
of MCPU.-   PMC will oversee Project implementation and provide necessary
coordination on all important matt2rs.
C.  CoLIsultants
43.       Consultant services will be provided to assist in Project
implementation and to impart on-the-job training to staff of MCPU and
the provinces. These services, to be financed from the proceeds of the
Bank loan, will be provided by six experts: a highway construction expert,
a mechanical supervisor, a works supervisor, a bridge engineer, a pavement
expert and an accountant. Considering their satisfactory performance
during the feasibility study and detailed engineering phases, the Govern-
ment requested that the tecinical assistance Consultants be retained during
implementation also. The Bank has agreed to this request subject to
negotiation of a satisfactory contract with them. This arrangement will
be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
In their activities the consultants will ensure that all local personnel
associated with the Project are given on-the-job training and that upon
completion of the Project these personnel will have acquired the capabi-
lity to carry out similar works and maintenance of the Project road
satisfactorily. An appropriate scheme for training will be prepared by
the consultants at the commencement of their assignment for approval of
the Government and the Bank.
D.   Procurement
44.       Procurement of all equipment and materials for the Project
to be financed by the Bank will be27arried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.-   The Government has requested
advance action for proSyrement of equipment (see Appendix 10) and the
Bank has agreed to it.-   This will save about eight months in the
implementation period.
45.       The bridge works under the Project will be implemented through
contract following prequalification of contractors and international
competitive _adding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement.-   The contract will be awarded on a unit price basis and
the contractor will provide the necessary equipment, materials and man-
power required to execute the bridge works.
E.   Implementation Schedule
46.       The Project will be implemented over a period of three years
and six months with completion envisaged by December 1987. The first
12 months co mencing July 1984 will be devoted to preparatory works
including the negotiation of contracts with consultants, procurement of
equipment, prequalification of contractors for bridge works, invitations
I/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 4.
2/  I.oan Agreement. Schedule 4, para 2.
3/   Doc IN. 153-84 dated 24 August 1984.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 3.



21
to tenders and tender evaluation. Construction of road works is planned
to commence In July 1985 and is expected to be completed in two years
and six months. The contract for bridge works is programmed to be
awarded by December 1985 with completion of the bridges in one year and
nine months including three months for mobilization. A detailed imple-
mentation schedule for the Project is presented in Appendix 13.
F.   Land Acquisition
47.       Since the proposed improvements will be confined to the limits
of the existing right-of-way, no land acquisition is envisaged with
regard to roadworks. However, for the approaches to Sasaa bridge, minor
land acquisition will be required. The Government has assured the Bank
that it will take necessary action to acquire or make available, on a
timely basis and in accordance with the agreed implementation schedule,
the necessary land, right-of-way, tyd access as shall be required for
the implementation of the Project.-
C.   Maintenance
48.       Maintenance of the Project road will be the responsibilitv
of MCPU. At present, maintenance of roads in Guadalcanal is not
satisfactory, mainly due to inadequate funds and equipment. The
Government has assured the Bank that after completion of construction.
some of the equipment procured under the Pr ect as may be required for
proper maintenance of ths,Guadalcanal road,- will be set apart exclu-
sively for that purpose.- The Government has also given an assurance
that it will maintain, in a satisfactory manner, the Guadalcanal road
and to this egd it will provide the necessary financial resources on a
timely basis.- The Government agreed with the Mission that on average
a sum of about SI$500 per km will be needed annually for routine main-
tenance of the road system in the country and that it would endeavor to
allocate an amount corresponding to this each year for such maintenance.
49.       The consultants will review the maintenance programs and tech-
niques being followed in the country and make appropriate recommendations
for routine and periodic maintenance of the Project road as well as other
roads. Based on such recommendations PMO will draw up a program for
future maintenance of the Project road six months before Project completion.
The program will include details of staff and equipment to be allocated
to maintenance work, a schedule of routine and periodic activities required
for proper maintenance of the road and details of funds for which budgetary
allocations will be required. The Government will afford the Bank an
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 5.
2/   Includes, in addition to the Project road, the Lambi-Tambea section
and the Poha-Ngalimbiu section which are not included under the
Project.
3/   The remaining equipment will be used by the Government primarily
for construction of penetration roads with its own resources.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 6(a)(i).



22
opportunity to review and comment on the proposed maintenance program
and will takT,into account the views of the Bank before it is
implemented -
H.   Accounting and Auditing
50.       PMO will establish and maintain a separate set of accounts
for all expenditure in relation to the Project. These accounts will
be audited annually in accordance with sound auditing principles by an
auditor acceptable to the Bank. The Government has given an assurance
that it will submit to the Bank, not later than six mouths after the
close of the fiscal year to which it refers, an audit report in English
on the Projecl,accounts, and such other details as the Bank may reason-
ably request.-
I.   Reporting and Monitoring
51.       The Project Manager, with the assistance of the consultants,
will prepare and sslbmit to the Bank through the Execuring Agency the
following reports:-
(1)  an updated detailed tiplementation program for the Project
within three months of the commencement of construction to be
reviewed animually;
(ii)  quarterly pregress rep.rts through the entire period of imple-
mentation to be submitted not later than 30 days after the end
of the quarter; and
(iii)  a Project Completion Repcrt to be submitted within three
months of the physical c&apletion of the Project.
J.   Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
52.       To facilitate monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
Project, the Government has agreed to compile and analyze necessary
traffic and socio-economic data in the influence area of the Project
road. For this purpose. a base line survey will be carried out by MCPU
prior to construction followed by a further survey after completion of
the Project. MCPU will be responsiLl for analysis of the survey
results, and will incorporate preliminary findings in the Project
Completion Report; a complete analysis of the data will be submitted to
the Bank within one year of the physical completion of the Project. The
nature of the data to be collected and the 47ethodology for analysis will
be agreed upon by the Bank and Government.-
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 6(a)(ii).
2/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(b).
3/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 7(a) and Section 4.07.
41   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 8.



23
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Objectives
53.       Due to wide fluctuations in prices of internationally traded
primary commodities. the Government has receatly shifted its emphasis
from supporting production of a few exportable items towards diversi-
fication of the agricultural production base including forestry and
fishing with the aim of absorbing the impact of changes in export
markets. Since the Project road is located in rural areas of the
northern part of Guadalcanal, which is the most densely populated and
economica:.ly active part of the country, the proposed Project will
assist the Government's efforts to increase and diversify production.
To increase incomes in the area the Government is supporting several
agricultural programs such as research relating to cash crops, cattle
raising and extension services - particularly designed to reach
smallholders.  However, unless farugate prices are increased through
provision of transport services at reasonable costs, the farmers will
not benefit fully from the development efforts. Implementation of the
Project will alleviate the present high transport cost situation and
thereby help in meeting the Government's objective with regard to higher
income and a more equitable distribution of income in the country, as
well as enhance the mobility of the rural population, bringing them into
the mainstream of economic and social life. Furthermore, it is
envisaged that the Project will have a significant impact on
institutional strengthening.
B. Benefits and Beneficiaries
54.       The quantifiable benefits from the proposed road improvements
are mostly vehicle operating cost savings (90 per cent of total
benefits) together with minor components of benefits to generated
traffic and savings in road maintenance costs. Apart from these
benefits, several non-quantifiable benefits are expected to accrue to
people living in the influence area of the Project road through improved
quality and frequency of transport services which will provide better
accessibility to health clinics, educational facilities and the main
marketing center in Honiara.
55.       Vehicle operating costs (VOC) were "lculated "with" and
"without" the Project for three vehicle types-  representative of
traffic on the Project road (see Appendix 14). As the Project road in
its present condition is not considered a constraint on vehicle
movements to any considerable degree, benefits to generated traffic
accruing from road improvements are modest at about 10 per cent of
normal benefits-
56.       Road maintenance costs were calculated "with" and "without"
the Project. To prevent further deterioration, the present roadi
conditions would require higher routine maintenance costs than would be
11 Cars/pick-ups, light trucks and heavy trucks.



24
needed for an improved surface with better drainage. Recognizing the
present lack of periodic maintenance. costs related to regravelling and
bituminous resurfacing of the improved Project road are considered in
addition to the initial capital costs. Furthermore, as a certain risk
of periodic damage to the approaches of the proposed Mberande and
Mbokokimbo bridges exists (see para 32), an appropriate amount for
restoration of such damage is included in the economic analysis.
57.       The beneficiaries of the proposed Project will mostly be
smallnolder farmers growing copra, cocoa and vegetables as well as large
scale enterprises, such as the oil palm and rice plantations which
transport raw materials and finished products over the Project road.
Logging operations are expected to decline in the future and the
beneficiaries in this sector will thus diminish gradually over the years
to come. As all freight and passenger transport, except for company
trucks, is operated in a fully competitive market and as rates and fares
at present are set according to road conditions (see para 15), benefits
from improved road conditions will mostly be passed on to transport users.
Advantages will also accrue to the Executing Agency's personnel in the
form of upgrading of skills and capabilities to undertake similar works
in road construction and maintenance in the future, through on-the-job
training by consultants.
C. Estimation of Economic Returns
58.       Economic evaluation of the Project was undertaken by
estimating the cost and quantifiable benefit streams over a 20-year
period of operation -- assumed to reflect its economic life - beginning
in 1988, the expected opening year. The costs and benefits are
estimated net of taxes and duties and are expressed in constant April
1984 prices in the Project area. The improvement costs include the
costs of civil works, construction equipment, consultant services and
physical contingencies (10 per cent). The economic costs include an
allowance for equipment depreciation for the purpose of economic
evaluation, while no costs are included for right-of-way as land
acquisition envisaged is minimal and such costs are negliglble. Since
construction of a bridge across the Mbokokimbo river will involve Bailey
panels and timber deck to be released from the Ngalimbiu bridge, which
has no alternative use, only costs of foundations and substructure have
been considered in the economic evaluation. However, phased replacement
costs for the Bailey panels and timber deck have been taken into account
in the maintenance cycle for evaluation.
59.       For the purpose of economic evaluation, the Project road was
subdivided into five homogeneous sections carrying nearly uniform
traffic volumes: (i) Tambea-Ndoma including Sasaa bridge, (ii)
Ndoma-Poha. (iii) Ngalimbiu-Vouza bridge. (iv) Vouza bridge-Mberande
river and (v) Mberande river-Kombito including Mberande and Mbokokimbo
bridges. Each road section and bridge was evaluated separately and
alternative improvement levels -- gravel or bituminuous surface
treatment; and engineered ford, low level or high level bridge -- were
considered. The solution which yielded the highest incremental net
present value was preferred in all cases.



25
60.       The annual cost and benefit streams for the Project road
improvements are given in Appendix 15 for the combination of optimum
improvement levels for each individual section (see para 29). The base
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is 15.6 per cent for the entire
Project with individual returns by road or bridge section being in the
range of 10 to 33 per cent, which is considered satisfactory.
D.   Sensitivity Tests
61.       The sensitivity of the EIRR was analyzed with respect to
changes in costs and benefits, and the construction period. The base
EIRR together with EIRRs resulting from adverse changes in the above-
mentioned variables are given in Table 5, which shows that under the
most adverse assumption of a 10 per cent increase in costs (estimated at
detailed engineering level) and a simultaneous reduction in traffic
demand of 15 per cent, the EIRR will be 12.1 per cent. Delay in Project
implementation by one year will result in a reduction of the base EIRR
to 14.4 per cent.
Table 5: Sensitivity Tests and Indicators
EIRR           Sensitivity
Changes                          (Z)            Indicator-
1.  Base Case                            15.6                  -
2.  102 Cost Increase                    14.3                 0.83
3.  15% Reduction in Traffic Demand      13.3                 0.98
4. 2 and 3 Combined                      12.1                  -
5.  Construction Delay by 1 Year         14.4
a/  Sensitivity Indicator - -    Percentage Change in EIRR
Percentage Change in Variable Tested
E.   Project Risks
62.       The main risks of the Project are a shortfall in anticipated
benefits due to slower traffic growth than expected and delays in
implementation. Possible adverse variations in costs, traffic demand
and implementation delay have been accounted for in the sensitivity
analysis, the results of which indicate that the Project viability would
not be significantly affected. The provision of consultant services to
assist and guide HCPU in construction management and supervision of the
civil works, together with the Government's assurance to retain an
adequate number of suitable personnel for execution of the works, will
minimize the risk of implementation delay.



26
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       The proposed Project comprises improvement of 90 km of the
main Guadalcanal road from Tambea to Poha and from Ngalimbiu to Kombito
and construction of three major bridges on this road. It also includes
procurement of construction equipment and spares and provision of
consultant services to assist in implementation of the Project and to
improve the capability of the Executing Agency through on-the-job
training of its staff.
64.       The Project is aimed at supporting the Government's efforts to
strengthen its economic base by increased and diversified agricultural
production through rehabilitation and improvement of the main road
system in the Guadalcanal Plains - the most fertile and economically
important area of the country with the highest population concentration
and large scale agricultural activities. The proposed road improvements
will facilitate better transportation services at reasonable costs and
increase the mobility of the population within the influence area of the
Project road. The Government has given high priority to the Project.
The quantifiable economic benefits resulting from improvements to the
road are expected to accrue mainly from road user cost savings; there
will also be some generated benefits and reduction in road maintenance
costs. The Project is expected to yield a base EIRR of 15.6 per cent.
Significant benefits will also accrue to the Executing Agency in the
form of improved manpower capabilities and equipment availability.
Social benefits will include better access to institutions such as
schools, health cllnics and administrative services. The Project is
considered economically viable and socially desirable.
65.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$6.5 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$5 million. It is
proposed that a loan of US$2 million be provided from the Bank's Special
Funds resources to cover a part of the foreign exchange cost (US$1.75
million) including US$0.047 million for a related technical assistance
grant chargeable to the loan and part of the local cost (US$0.25 million).
It is expected that the balance of the foreign exchange cost, namely
US$3.25 million, and a portion of the local cost amounting to US$0.25
million will be financed from other sources. The Borrower of the Bank
loan will be Solomon Islands. Funds required to implement the Project
in addition to those included in the Bank loan and co-financing will be
provided by the Borrower. The implementation arrangements for the
Project are considered satisfactory.
66.       in addition to the standard provisions and requirements
embodied in the Loan Agreement, specific assurances have been received
from the Borrower with respect to the following:
(i) The Government will ensure that prior to loan effectiveness,
satisfactory arrangements are made for the provision of funds
to be covered by co-financing (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01);
and



27
(ii)  The Government, on completion of road works, will set apart
some of the equipment procured under the Project (to be agreed
upon between the Government and the Bank) exclusively for
maintenance of the Project road. The Government will also
take all necessary measures to ensure that the Project road,
after improvement, is maintained in a satisfactory manner and
to this end will provide the required financial resources on a
timely basis (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 6(a)(i)).



28
APPENDIXES
Appendix No.                                                        Pae
I         Primary Commercial Production 1978-1983               29
2         Export-Import Values 1978-1983                        30
3         Non-Highway Modes of Transport                        31
4         Road Network 1983                                     33
5         Registered Motor Vehicles 1978-1982                   34
6         Road Sector Taxes and Expenditures 1978-1983          35
7         Normal Traffic Growth Rates                           37
8         Projected Normal Traffic (ADT) 1983-2007              39
9         Summary Terms of Reference for                        40
Consultant Services
10         Construction/Maintenance Equipment                    42
to be Procured
11         Organization Chart of MCPU                            43
12         Organization Chart of Project                         44
Implementation Unit
13         Project Implementation Schedule                       45
L4         Vehicle Operating Costs                               46
15         Economic Cost and Benefit Streams                     48



29
AppendIx I
PRIMARY COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION 1978-1983
Production
Product         Unit        1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Copra          '000 at      27.5    33.6    29.2    33.7    32.2    28.4
Palm Oil       '000 at      10.9    13.0    14.2    18.1    19.2    19.7
Palm Kernels   '000 mt       2.0     2.3     2.3      3.2     3.6     4.0
Paddy          '000 mt       7.7    10.2    14.3    13.9    10.5       9.5
Cocoa          '000 mt       0.2     0.3     0.3      0.6     0.7      1.3
Fish           '000 mt      17.5    23.9    22.9    25.5    20.6    39.4
Logs           '000 cu m  274.2   298.8   298.8   364.5   388.3   394.8
Source: Ministry of Finance
Reference in text: page 2, para 5.



30
Appendix 2
EXPORT-mPORT VALUES
(SIS million)
Exports (fob)
Item              1978    1979    1980      1981      1982      1983
Fish                  7.3    16.9    23.2      22.0      14.0      29.2
Logs                  6.8    14.7    14.9       14.7     21.4      18.8
Copra                10.2    16.1    10.5       8.1       8.1       8.4
Palm Oil & Kernels   5.1      7.2      7.0      7.5       7.3       8.8
Sawn Timber           0.3     1.1      1.1       1.3      1.5       1.2
Cocoa                 0.6     0.6      0.6      0.9       0.9       2.3
R'ice                 0.8     1.0      1.5      0.9       0.9       0.1
Gold                  0.0     0.2      0.6       0.5      0.4       0.5
Marine Shells         0.2     0.3      0.3       0.4      0.3       0.5
Other Products        0.5     0.3      0.5       0.5      0.6       0.4
Re-export             1.1     0.9      0.6       0.8      1.2       1.0
Total              32.9    59.3    60.8      57-.6     56.6      71.2
Imports (cif)
Item              1978    1979    1980      1981      1982      19834f
Petroleum Products   3.5      6.5      9.9      15.2     14.4      12.6
Manufactured Goods   8.9    12.5    14.9        17.0     14.1      11.0
Machinery & Transport
Equipment             8.5    19.0    24.0       19.1     13.3      13.4
Food                  4.9     6.4      6.6       7.1      8.5       6.0
Chemicals             2.8     3.3      3.2       3.8      3.8       3.2
Beverages & Tobacco  1.5      1.9      1.9       2.4      2.1       1.9
Edible Oils & Fats   0.2      0.6      0.4       0.4      0.5       0.3
Other Products        0.5     0.4      0.6       0.8      0.7       0.8
Total             30.8    50.6    61.5      65.8      57.4      49.21Y
a/   January-September only.
bI   Estimated at SI$70.0 million for all four quarters of 1983.
Source: Ministry of Finance.
Reference in text: page 2, para 5.



31
Appendix 3
Page 1
NON-HIGHWAY MODES OF TRANSPORT
A.  Sea Transport
1.        Domestic shipping services are provided by a formal and an
informal sector; the latter includes small vessels and canoes (less than six
meters in length) with outboard motors. While the informal sector performs
important social and commercial functions its growth is constrained by
factors such as lack of mechanics to service the outboard motors at remote
locations, fuel costs which make outboard motors more than 15 hp uneconomical
and construction of jetties and wharves making lighterage services by canoes
superfluous. Canoes, mainly of fiberglass, are used for fishing, transporting
copra to the Copra Board's trading points or to vessels at anchor and for
social and leisure purposes. No data are available on the number of vessels
within the informal sector.
2.        As of 1983 the formal inter-island shipping fleet was composed of
114 vessels registered in Solomon Islands. The majority of the fleet
consists of wooden ships designed to carry both passengers and cargo. The
average registered gross tonnage is 61 per vessel, with a carrying capacity
of 36 mt and 39 passenger seats. Estimated existing total capacities are 75
million ton-km and 131 milfion passenger-km. As the fleet utilization for
cargo is about 40 per cent- and for passengers 80 per cent, the current
supply of shipping capacity is in excess of demand.  Therefore, future
demand in the medium term could be adequately handled by the existing fleet
with provision for replacement of old vessels.  Although the Government-owned
fleet of 25 vessels constitutes only 22 per cent of the number of domestic
vessels, it carries 40 per cent of the total domestic freight by sea.
Further, while the Government fleet has been modernized recently through the
acquisition of larger sized multi-purpose vessels under aid assistance from
Japan, the 27 fishing vessels and 62 other private ships - partly owned by
expatriates -- are considerably older. Since the Government is committed to
gradually restrict ownership to Solomon Islanders, expatriate shipping firms
are unwilling to make further investments for modernization of their fleet.
The Government is presently considering a proposal to establish a statutory
authority to own and operate the Government fleet along commercial lines.
The policy of the authority will be to provide full shipping services to all
ports of Solomon Islands on at least a weekly basis.
I/   Estimates indicate 50 per cent for the private fleet and 20 per cent
for the Government fleet.
Reference in text: page 3, para 6.



32
Appendix 3
Page 2
3.        The Solomon Islands Ports Authority operates the main port of the
country at Honiara and the two minor ports at Gizo and Noro (Western
Province) which mostly serve as copra trading stations and as transshipment
points from/to Honiara. Provincially administered ports include Auki (wharf
and barge ramp), Kira Kira (barge ramp), Sta. Cruz (jetty), Tulagi (wharf
and two slipways), Buala (emall wharf) and Marau (short wooden jetty); the
port of Yandina (wharf) is privately operated. The Port of Honiara, which
was recently improved under Bank financing (Loan No. 323-SOL), includes a
wharf with one berth for international container and general cargo ships.
Since handling gear, however, is limited to forklifts the ships have to use
their own lifting facilities for loading/unloading of cargo with resulting
relatively long service times. In addition, three jetties serve small
domestic vessels calling at Honiara. The throughput of the Port of Honiara
increased from 128,000 mt in 1979 to 148,000 mt (imports: 91,000 mt,
exports: 57,000 mt) in 1983 corresponding to an annual growth rate of 3.7
per cent. Palm oil constituted the largest single item of exports at 37 per
cent with copra and timber as secondary commodities at 23 per cent and 22
per cent respectively.
B.   Air Transport
4.        Th? domestic carrier, Solair, which is partly owned by the
Government,- serves 23 airports/air fields covering all major islands and
provinces. Of these only Henderson near Honiara and Munda (Western
Province) have bituminous runways; all the rest have gravel runways. Since
Henderson has an existing runway of 2,000 m it can cater to jet aircraft
such as the BACl-l1 or the B737 while Munda with a runway of 1,200 m can
accommodate only non-jet aircraft. The extent of the network is considered
adequate at present traffic levels. However, the Government has plans to
extend Henderson airport's runway by 200 m to enable it to receive larger
aircraft such as the DC-10 and to provide provincial air fields with
navigational facilities.
5.        Solair operates 6 aircraft of 5 different models with capacities
ranging from 5 to 19 seats. Apart from domestic services it flies to Kieta
in Bougainville (Papua New Guinea) as well as to Port Vila and Santo in
Vanuatu. In 1983 Solair traffic amounted to 55,000 passengers (an increase
of 6.7 per cent over the 1982 traffic level) and 10.6 million passenger-km
corresponding to an average passenger trip length of 195 km. Direct
international flights, apart from Solair's international network, link
Honiara with Brisbane (Australia) Port Moresby and Nauro (PNG) twice a week,
and Auckland (New Zealand), Nadi (Fiji) and Port Vila (Vanuatu) weekly.
I/   Fortv nine per cent of the shares are owned by the Government while the
remaining are held by an expatriate firm.



33
Appendix 4
ROAD NETWORK 198 W
(kNm)
Public      Private
Province            Urban    Rural   (Rural)
Western                20       206      400
Santa Ysabel            -        15        -
Central Islands         -        40       50
Guadalcanal             -       410       50
Honiara Town          138         -        -
Malaita                 10      340
Makira/Ulawa            -        70        -
Eastern Islands         -       45        20
Total            168     1126       520
a/   Public roads are maintained by either the central or the provincial
government. The length of private roads for plantation and logging
operations is an approximate figure only.
Source: MCPU.
Reference in text: page 4, para 10.



34
Appendix 5
REGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLES 1978-1982-/
1978      1979      1980       1981    1982
A.   Government Vehicles /
1.  Motor Cars                  37         26         21       32      33
2.  Goods Vehicles             209        241        228      236      259
3.  Motor Cycles          /     93         77         77       77       97
4.  Other Motor Vehicles'    200           197       197      203      208
5.  Trailers                   191        124        124      124      130
Sub Total (A)              730        665       647       672     727
B.   Private Vehicles
1. Motor Cars              d  810         788        786      907     893
2.  Public Service Vehicles' 146          149        145      170      207
3.  Taxis                      108        161        167      209      196
4.  Goods Vehicles             455        534        530      685      700
5.  Motor Cycles               227        211        211      216      198
6. Other Motor Vehicles         40         44         50      135      132
7.  Trailers                    24         13         13       26       27
Sub Total (B)             1810       1900       1902     2348    2353
C.   All Vehicles
1.  Motor Cars                 847        814        807      939     926
2.  Public Service Vehicles   146         149        145      170     207
3.  Taxis                      108        161        167      209      196
4.  Goods Vehicles             664        775        758      921      959
5.  Motor Cycles               320        288        288      293     295
6.  Other Motor Vehicles       240        241        247      338      340
7.  Trailers                   215        137        137      150      157
Total (A + B)             2540       2565       2549     3020    3080
a/     Excluding diplomatic and other tax exempt vehicles, totalling 40 in
1982. Unlicensed vehicles are allowed to operate outside registration
islands (Guadalcanal, Malaita and Gizo). Illegal operation (without
registration) however takes place, particularly on Malaita.
b/     According to a recent survey by MCPU only about 300 vehicles are
operational.
c/     Tractors and road construction equipment.
d/     Buses and trucks registered to carry both goods and passengers.
Source: Ministry of Finance, Internal Revenue Section.
Reference in text: page 4, para 11.



35
Appendix 6
Page I
ROAD SECTOR TAXES AND EXPENDITURE
A.  Unit Rates
1. Customs Duty (Ad valorem %/SIc per lit)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Cars                    40%      50%     50%     70%      70%      70%
Buses                   10%      10%     10%      10%     10%      10%
Trucks                  Nil     Nil      Nil      10%     10%      10%
Motorcycles             35%      50%     60%      60%     60%      60%
Vehicle Spare parts    25%       10%     10%     20%      20%      20%
Tires                    5%      10%     10%      20%     20%      20%
Gasoline             ¢2.2/lit  ¢4/lit  ¢4/lit   30%       30%   ¢8/lit
Diesel                  Nil    cl/lit  cl/lit   10%       10%   ¢2/lit
Lubricants              10%      10%     10%      10%     20%     20%
2.   Annual Vehicle License Fees (as of 30 April 1984)
SI $
Hea.y Public Service Vehicle                         3n0
Light Public Service Vehicle:
Light Bus                                         170
Taxi                                              170
Light ?ublic Service Car                           90
Heavy Goods Vehicle:
Load less than or eayal to 3 mt                   150
Load more than 3 mt-'                             320
Light Goods Vehicle or Tractor                        70
Trailer                                               40
Private Motor Car:
Under 1100 cc                                      40
1100-1500 cc                                       60
1501-2000 cc                                      80
2001 cc and above                                 100
Motor Cycle:
Under 250 cc                                       20
250 cc and above                                   35
Dealer's General License                             360
3.   Driving License Fee                                    5
4.   Driving Test Fee                                      10
5.   Inspection Fee-/                                      10
a/   Including tracking vehicle.
b/   First test is free; all vehicles are inspected annually except taxis
which are inspected every three months at the MCPU motor pools.
Reference in text: vase 7. nara 18.



36
,kppendix 6
Page 2
B.   Annual Revenue (SI$'000)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
1. Customs Duty
Vehicles               251     386      331     590      290     NA
Parts & Tires           75      114     110      199     258     NA
Fueia     b            120     592      531   1,621   1,543      NA
Lubricant-  b           43       37      62      121     166     NA
2.  Annual License Fee      76       99     126      143     185    200
3. Driver License Fee       10       11      14       15      14      24
Total                  575   1.239   1,174   2,689   2,456       -
Total (Automotive Use Only)                            2,075
C.   Annual Expenditure (SI$'000)
C/           dI       eIf
1.  Maintenance            127-/   244-    304       322     363    US=
2.   Capital               481      782   1,000       72      40    60O&'
a,   Including revenue from diesel sold to SI Electricity Authority
(SIS241,000 in 1982), shipping (approximately SI$100.000 in 1982) and
logging firms..                         /
b/   Non-road vehicle revenues as in note -  above estimated at a total of
SI$40,000 for SI Electricity Authority and shipping.
c/   Includes 15 per cent overhead costs for headquarters administration.
dle/ No equipment depreciation charges.
ft   About 60 per cent of estimated requirements (SI$650,000).
j/   1984: SI$1,555,000 (planned disbursement).
Source: Ministry of Finance and MCPU.



37
Appendix 7
Page 1
NORMAL TRAFFIC GROWTH RATES
A.   Passenger Transport
In the light of expected economic development in the Project area
the feasibility study estimated real annual growth in income per capita (I)
to be not more than one per cent on the average. Present overall population
growth in Solomon Islands is 3.4 per cent per annum and the Government
expects this figure to remain constant througbout the Project's economic
lifetime. However, population growth is not uni'orm in the different
provinces and even in Guadalcanal. An annual growth rate    3.9 per cent is
considered reasonable for the Project zone east of Honiara- while for the
western area with less economic potential 2.9 per cent is expected. Since
analysis of results of the Honiara Houselild Survey conducted in 1982
revealed an income-transport demand elasticity (E) close to 1.0 in line with
findings in some Southeast Asian countries, the abovementioned variables can
be brought together in a standard formula as follows:
I E
PTGR = ((xjry + 1) CP -1) 100; where PTGR symbolizes
annual passenger traffic growth rate and CP
compounded population growth.
Using this formula annual growth in passenger traffic over the period
1983-2007 is calculated as 4.9 per cent and 3.9 per cent respectively for
areas east and west of Honiara.
B.   Freight Transport
On the basis of Government statistics and forecast, the produc_ion
and import of commercially traded commodities (in '000 mt) in the Project
areas over the period 1979-1989 are as follows:
Item                     1979    1980    1981   _.982    1983    1989
Copra                           6.0      5.8     6.2     5.5      4.6     5.0
Palm Fruits                    55.9    64.8    83.0    89.4    89.4   105.0
Palm Oil                       13.0    14.Z    18.1    19.2    19.2    25.0
Palm Kernel                     2.3      2.3     3.2     3.6      3.6      5.0
Cocoa                           0.1      0.1     0.2      0.2     0.4      I.J
Rice                            6.8      9.5     9.1      8.0     6.2      7.6
Fertilizer                       -        -       -        -      6.1      6.6
Logs                             -        -       -        -     54.8    54.8
Fuel & Other !zoducts            -        -       -        -     18.3    25.6
1/  The higher population growth rate in the sector east of Honiara is due
to the expected continuous migration of workers and their families from
the island of Malaita to work in plantations.
Reference in text: page 9, para 24.



38
Appendix 7
Page 2
Based on the unit capacities of trucks carrying the different commodities
mentioned above, annual truck growth rates over the period 1983-1989 can be
estimated as 2.7 per cent for the Ngalimbiu-Konbito area and 4.4 per cent
.or the Poha-Tambea area.
C.   Combined Traffic
Although growth rates are normally applied to vehicles by type.
this is not possible in the context of the Guadalcanal transportation
pattern with vehicles carrying a mixture of freight and passengers. There-
fore, the growth rates for passenger and freight carrying vehicles were
combined considering the observed traffic data with a 60140 split of passengers
and freight on the Ngalinbiu-Kombito section and an 80/20 split on the
Poha-Tambea section. This would result in an overall annual growth rate for
all vehicles of 4.0 per cent over the period 1983-1989 for both Project
areas. Although Government's and private enterprises' plans beyond 1989
are not yet formulated in detail, the overall strategy is to further develop
the Project areas along the lines of past growth patterns thereby giving a
basis for an assumed sustained growth of 4 per cent per annum throughout
the remaining economic life of the Project (1990-2007).
Source: Feasibility Study estimates and information obtained by Mission.



39
Appendix 8
PROJECTED NORMAL TRAFFIC (ADT) 1983-2007
Vehicle
Section             Type           1983      1988       2000      2007
1.  Tanbea-         Cars, pick-ups      82        100        160       211
Ndoma         Light trucks         22         27         43        57
Heavy trucks        24         29         46         61
Total              128        156        249       329
2. Ndoma-           Cars, pick-ups    109          133       213        280
Poha           Light trucks         29         35         56        74
Heavy trucks        32         39         62         82
Total              170        207        331       436
3. Ngalimbiu-       Cars, pick-ups    233         283        454        597
Vouza Br.      Light trucks        156        190        304       400
Reavy trucks       156        190        304        400
Total              545        663      1,062      1,397
4.  Vouza Br.-      Cars, pick-ups      91         111       177        233
Mberande R.    Light trucks         99         120       193        254
Heavy trucks        79         96        154        202
Total              269        327        524        689
5.  Mberande R.-   Pick-up
Kombito        equivalents          33         40         64        86
Source: Feasibility study estimates
Reference in text: page 10. para 24.



40
Appendix 9
Page 1
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANT SERVICES
It is envisaged that consultant services will be provided by a
team of six experts comprising: (i) a construction management expert
(Team Leader), a works supervisor and a mechanical supervisor mainly for
construction management of road works; (ii) a bridge engineer for
supervision of bridge works construction; and (iii) two short term
experts for special assignments. The scope of consultant services will
include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
1.  Road Component
Ci) assist MCPU in the overall planning and organisation of the
works for implementation by force account;
gii)  provide construction management assistance to MCPU for the
detailed planning of all day-to-day operations including
equipment management;
(iii)  prepare a maintenance schedule for all equipment procured
under the Project and institute effective maintenance
techniques;
(iv)  establish workshop routines for equipment repair and provide
guidance and on-the-job training to plant operators, mechanics
and foremen in the proper use, operation and maintenance of
equipment;
(v) assist in timely procurement of spares, fuel, construction
materials, etc., as required in accordance with the Bank's
procurement procedures and the implementation schedule for the
Project;
(vi)  provide effective supervision of the works and ensure quality
control and compliance with specifications;
(vii) train local staff associated with tt-e Project in all aspects
of road construction and maintenance operations;
(viii)  prepare monthly reports, fully describing the progress of
works;
(ix)  assist MCPU in the formulation of a maintenance program
for the Project road and in the preparation of a Project
Completion Report; and
(x) assist in the preparation of a detailed program and
appropriate formats for collecting and analyzing
socio-economic and traffic data for surveys to be carried out
before the start of the Project and after its completion.
Reference in text: page 14, para 33.



41
Appendix 9
Page 2
2.   Bridge Component
(i) carry out evaluation of tenders for the bridge works and make
recommendations for award of contract.
(ii)  review the method of constraction and construction program
proposed by the contractor and suggest modifications where
required;
(iii) carry out effective supervision of construction and ensure
proper quality control and strict compliance with the
contract;
(iv) assist MCPU in the administration of the contract;
(v) train concerned local staff in all aspects of bridge
construction;
(vi) prepare monthly reports describing the progress of works; and
(vii) assist MCPU in preparing a maintenance program for
bridges under the Project.
3.   Short Term Experts
Pavement Expert
(i) carry out evaluation of the existing paved road between
Ngalimbiu and Vouza bridge to assess its structural
condition and based on that, prepare detailed design and
bill of quantities for rehabilitation of the road;
(ii) review the various standards being followed in the country
for the design of roads and bridges and make suitabl.e
recommendations for a uniform standard;
(iii) review the techniques being followed in the country for
maintenance o' roads and make appropriate recommendations for
both routine and periodic maintenance; and
(iv) provide training to MCPU staff in pavement evaluation and
design.
Accountant
(i) establish appropriate costing and accounting systems in
accordance with Bank's requirements and suitable for the works
to be implemented; and
(ii) provide comprehensive training to the Project accountant and
associated staff in costing and accounting systeos established
to enable them to continue the work independently after the
expert leaves.



42
Appendix 10
CONSTRUCTION/MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT TO BE PROCURED
Number                 Total
Item                    Required            Cif Cost (US$)
1.  Tracked Tractor 100kw              2                 210,000
2.  Motor Grader 90kw                  2                 150,000
3.  Front End Loader 1.5m3             2                 144,000
4.  Tipper Trucks 4-5m3               12                 324,000
5.  Roller, Vibratory 6-8 tons         1                  55,000
6.  Roller, Multi-tyred 6 tons         1                  35,000
7.  Water Bowser, 6000 lit             1                  25,000
H.  Fuel Bowser & Trailer, 2500 lit   2                   11,000
9.  Bitumen Distributer and
Heater 5000 lit                    1                  60,000
10.  Chip Spreader                      1                   4,000
11.  Supervisory Vehicle, Station       1                   9,000
Wagon. 4 x 4
12.  LWB I ton 4 x 4 Pickup             4                  40,000
13.  Wheeled Tractor with Disc Harrow  1                   30,000
14.  Lubrication Truck                  1                  35,000
Sub-Total:                             1,132,000
Iq.  Spares at 252 of Equipment Value                      283,000
l6. Tools & Equipment for
Workshop                                               35,000
17.  Miscellaneous Office Equipment                          5,000
Total:                           1,455,000
Reference in text: page 14, para 34.



ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF MCPU
|FIt"MANENTSIECRETAAY|
PE~~~~~~~~~~~W , I 10-c;I :C--
*  Ww.,OffkU  W..~~~~~~~~~S Of 11W  Wk, 01114.  *o.S. 01114.gl                        ient                      su'bl O"
lnasi                       (Pbj.01,41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PM                      ISf Ofm    P'~ OqmglU      14F
IMIAIgyIA4SI    IPIum1Ia.I  Ikaa.egaI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~M ofi               IMve
bjEllotl4 '1                                                                                          E2 [lm
t  | A-M-"1 :w-@ [__ l  l  ge1  venvia  |  , s       l
"g1>    A                                                  SWS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gl
33  | w"Xpoffs- 11 wx.Q¢f" |  1            | W*Oekw  &          l wStgltft"el |     2k3            2 tl  ] i**|fO ltan  Fl                   l               12
410   |  (lSX   } 0  itat-8  j j  _   ]    |    {w4mb10b    1                                                             .                  j~~~~~~unnc  a  Wooial



ORGANIZATION CHART OF IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
1d E I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
otherTgoveanmen     d I f ChT M                                                                                       echanical 
I ::           }   bother  concerned'a:                                                                                                EnginrBr
Pave m     Cent  e st                                                           SenictionNanmemTeam  ProjrcWoranagmet Office r  NtCP
\:;   g;                          ~~~~~~~~Construtdion lansp i                                  [_
l                               {~~~~~~~~~~~~T*m Leader ol Conviltnitli         .senior Civil Enginetr                                      -
datin and ecretariat ervi.                                     r                                                 Accou                       I
:\; 1\   \                                    }    i7~~~~~~~~~~~~~ridge Enginewer      Bridp Eniin4fne           
Ot    neramu lts DiIi c  nConsultant)   Lo3 Gredurt                                            o
To include laboraiorl sGrwal Unit Foreman                                                                    Uni W  Supeivisor and 
5 s   Z   Meehanieal Supencitsr
21~ ~ ~ ~~~~~T l  Pemue lbtsptorvt                                                                      SonororvDliV
:                   ~~~~~~~drafting and steretubfl sterwtcn                     - A 
t\1lJ : P             *  ~~~~In particularthe Minirtry of Finance,}    Pl";nt/VehicleO 0erator/Oriners               2HNo.      L      -     -     --      -     -
t1:1\I                  ~~~~~~Suneyor GeneralsOllicee nd                I    Laborers                                30tlo.
;                    ~~~~~~~Provincial Governments.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-                                       ~~~~~~~~~ ~                        ~ ~~~~1984  1985  = 198       1187    
i F |M|IA| qJ | J AS NE     J  FIM A MIII S JON[D J  M       JE  A R E ;NJIJF M     JAS   
A. ROAD COMPONENT
Procurement of equipment                  ;
Construction
0
rn   4      B. BRIDGE COMPONENT
x              Prequalification of contractors
a              Tender and contract award
Mobilization
Construction
C. CONSULTING SERVICES
Recruitment of Consultants
Construction mianagement and
suipervision 



46
Appendix 14
Page 1
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
A.  Roads
1.        The feasibility study estimated vehl7le operating cost (VOC)
relationships mainly on the basis of the TRRD- Road Investment Model for
Developing Countries and the local prices and vehicle characteristics. To
obtain VOC in the situations "'with" and "without" Project, the consultants
undertook evaluation of road surface roughness condition in the opening year
"with" and "without" improvements considering the present maintenance
regime. The roughness conditions were estimated as follows:
Roushness (/ikm)
Existing     Existlng   Minimum      Good     Good
Bituminous   Gravel     Improved     Gravel   Bituminous
Section         Pavement                Gravel                 Pavement
1. Tambea-Ndoma          -       10,000     7,500          5,500      -
2. Ndoma-Poha            -       10,000     8,000          5,500    2,500
3. Ngalimbiu-
Vouza Br.          8,000         -        -                -     2,500
4. Vouza Br.-
Mberande              -        8,000      7,000         5,500    2,500
5. Mberande-Kombito      -        9,000     7.000             -       -
2.        Application of the surface roughness system to the basic running
and fixed costs would result in the following economic vehicle operating
costs at the April 1984 price level:
Surface         Road Type                       VOC (SI cents/km)
Roughness       and Condition       Car,            Light         Heavy
(mm/km)         Rating              Pick-up        Truck          Truck
10.000         Gravel, Bad          27.29          38.33          53.51
9,000         Gravel, Fair/Bad     24.58           34.52         48.19
8,000         Gravel, Fair/Bad     23.19           32.57         45.46
7.500         Gravel, Fair/Bad     22.45           32.22         44.00
7,000         Gravel, Fair         20.49           31.86         40.95
5,500         Gravel, Good         17.46           27.42         36.27
8,000         Paved, Bad           23.19           32.57         45.46
2,500         Paved, Good          14.21           22.32         29.52
Improvements of the Project road would, on the average, imply that economic
transport costs will be reduced by about 25 per cent.
I/  Transport and Road Research Laboratory of UK.
Reference in text: page 23, para 55.



47
Appendix 14
Page 2
B.   Bridges
3.        At present. traffic is interrupted for several days during
three months of the peak wet season at the three major river crossings
where bridges are proposed under the Project. Based on the traffic
volumes and average delays at each of these crossings, the savings in
vehicle operating costs resulting from the construction of bridges are
as shown below:
VOC Savings       VOC Savingsa/
River                          (X)           in 1988 (SI$'000)
Sasaa                             5                 19=
Mberande                         50                 91
Mbokokimbo                       50                 1&-i
a/   Intrusion of river water into engine and transmission system leads to
fast deterioration of vehicle, frequent engine and gear oil changes,
and maintenance overhaul as well as damage to brake linings.
b/   Excluding SI$20,000 due to shorter route distance of 1.35 km.
_1  Twenty per cent of benefits accruing at Nberande bridge.
4.        Benefits to generated traffic following provision of bridges are
estimated as for road improvements. At Sasaa river the proposed bridge is
expected to result in benefits to generated traffic of 10 per cent of normal
benefits while at Mberande and Mbokokimbo rivers 15 per cent is expected.
Source: Feasibility Study, Final Report, April 1984.



48
Appendix 15
ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
SI$ '000
Benefits
Improveme7t    Maintenance       Normal      Other            Total
Year       Costs-       Cost Savings      Benefits   Benefits b        Benefits
1985        743
1986       1993
1987       2909
1988                          47              737           51             835
1989                          41              766           53             860
1990        -37               35              796           54             885
1991        -96               31              828           84             943
1992        148               37              861           87             985
1993        -37               29              896           91            1016
1994         80               33              931           94            1058
1995        164               43              969           98            1110
1996        -37               41             1008          102            1151
1997        292               43             1048          106            1197
1998        -37               24             1089          109            1222
1999        -96               22             1133          115            1270
2000        -37               22              1178         120            1320
2001         80               26              1225         124            1375
2002        275               44             1275          129            1448
£003       -133               34             1326          134            1494
2004        -37               28             1379          140            1547
2005       -133               24             1434          145            1603
2006        -37               22             1492          151            1665
2007       -133               22             1551          157            1730
EIRR: 15.6%
a/   The cash flow from 1990 to 2007 includes resurfacing costs of improved
gravel and bituminous pavements at intervals according to traffic volume,
and periodic maintenance costs for approaches to Mberande bridge. For
sections proposed for upgrading from gravel to bituminous pavement,
savings in regravelling costs will, however, occur as indicated by
negative values in the cash flow.
b/   Benefits to generated traffic.
Source: Feasibility Study estimates.
Reference in text: page 25, para 60.






