Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MIC.ROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10642-SOL Type: (PCR)                          ReportNo. 10642
BURNS, ROB/ X31708 / T9 102/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
GUADALCANAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1542-SOL)
MAY 15, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency' units       Solomon Island Dollar (SI$)
US$1.00   -   SI$1.30 (at appraisal)
US$1.00   2   SI$2.38 (at completion)
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
ADB             -  Asian Development Bank
IDA            -  International Development Association
MCPU            -  Ministry of Communications and Public Utilities
MEWU            -  Ministry of Energy, Works and Utilities
MTWU            -  Ministry of Transport, Works and Utilities
OPEC            -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PMU             -  Project Management Office



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ONee of Dsrfetof.General
Opefations Evaluaticon
May 15, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Report on Solomon Islands Guadalcanal Road
Improvement Prolect (Credit 1542-SOL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Solomon Islands Guadalcanal Road Improvement Project (Credit
1542-SOL)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
GUe,DALCANAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CEDIX 1542-SOL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .i...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I   .1...  .                                .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
Project Identity .......................................    1
Background   .1...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
Projact Objec'.ives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Design and Organization  ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  2
Project Implem.entatioL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project Results  ....  .             .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .     .  4
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
IDA Performance  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  6
Borrower Performance   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  6
Project Relation-hip . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Consulting Services  ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  8
Project Documentation and Data   ....  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  8
PART II  .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .  . . . . . . . . . . .   9
PART III   . . .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .i. .  .  .    .  10
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Credit Disbursements   ..............                                 .....         ...       .  11
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Project Costs and Financing  ...................                                               .  12
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Status of Covenants  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
Use of Bank Resources  ....  .               .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .     .    19
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - Pavement Construction Details
ANNEX 2 - Drainage Structure
ANNEX 3 - Estimated and Actual Annual Daily Traffic
ANNEX 4 - Implementat.on Schedule
ANNEX 5 - Compliance with Loan Covenants
ANNEX 6 - Project Costs
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on'y in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed w3thout World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISTANDS
GUADALCANAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1542-SOL)
PREUEAi
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Guadalcanal Road
Improvement Project in the Solomon Islands, for which Credit 1542-SOL in the
amount of SDR 2.0 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) was approved on January 22,
1985. The credit was closed on June 26, 1989, twelve months behind schedule.
An undisbursed balance of SDR 142,229.37 was canceled on June 26, 1989.
The PCR is largely based on the PCR that was prepared by staff of
Asian Development Bank (ADB) in May 1990, and documentation available in the Asia
Information Services Center.   ADB was the lead organization in the joint
cofinancing arrangement with the International Development Association (IDA) and
the OPEC Fund for this project.   ADB was responsible for overall project
formulation, appraisal and subsequent supervision of project implementation. In
accordance with the agreements contained in the "Letter of Credit Administration"
dated July 10, 1985, between IDA and ADB, IDA funds were administered by ADB.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
GUADALCANAL ROQD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1542-SOL)-
EtALUATION SUMM4RY
Obiectives
1.          The main objective of the project was to provide reliable low-cost
transportation facilities in the Guadalcanal Plains - the most fertile and
economically important part of the country with great potential for agricultural
development - and thereby support the Government's efforts to increase and
diversify agricultural production.   The project was also  to enhance the
capability of the Ministry of Energy, Works and Utilities in the design,
construction and maintenance of roads, primarily through on-the-job training of
its personnel in maintenance techniques, and through provision of equipment.
Implementation ExDerience
2.          Overall, the project was implemented as appraised.   The project
completion was delayed by 12 months. The project suffered delays throughout the
implementation period, mainly due to insufficient equipment being available for
the works, the underestimation of haul distances for construction materials, and
the much greater than anticipated drainage works.   The delays were also
attributable, inter alia, to severe cyclones, low productivity, less than optimum
equipment fleet, labor disputes and difficulties in locating adequate supplies
of subbase course materials (para 5.4). According to ADB's PCR, until August
1986, the project was well managed and necessary actions were taken promptly.
Following the strike in May 1986, management of the project was weakened by
replacement of the expatriate Project Manager with a less experienced national
engineer who was not given adequate support and assistance from his superiors in
Ministry of Transport, Works and Utilities (para 5.5).
Results
3.          Quantifiable project benefits are mainly savings in vehicle operating
costs.  The project supported the Government's efforts to increase and diversify
agricultural production by providing reliable low-cost transportation facilities
in one of the most agriculturally fertile and economically important parts of the
country. The project realized its objective of facilitating more efficient road
transportation (para 6.1).



- iii -
Sustainability
4.          The project achieved its primary objective of improving 90 km of the
Guadalcanal Plains road to appropriate standards, and the quality of the
completed works is good; but in order for the impact to be sustained, there
should be provision for adequate road maintenance budget. As statAd by ADB in
its JCR, it should continue to collect information from MTWU withl regards to
maintenance operation and expenditures on the project road since it is likely
that these will fall short of requirements and the lending institutions'
expectations (para 7.2).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.          The project's achievements in training local staff and enhancing
MTWU's capabilities ir road building skills were disappointing due to the
isolation which arose between the project organization and MTWU. The project
suffered from poor estimates of resources which led to delays in the appraised
schedule as follows:
(i)   not enough details such as numbers, types and condition
of plant and pool equipment were ascertained during
appraisal, thus MTWU's ability to physically support the
project were overestimated;
(ii)  MTWU's  ability  to  provide  the  necessary  technical
support to the project was overestimated at appraisal;
and
(iii) inadequate specificatio.is for equipment to be procured
as prepared by  the Appraisal mission,  led  to  the
purchase of unsuitable equipment. The sealing work was
therefore mostly done by a local subcontractor.
6.          The Borrower had agreed witb ADB to collect traffic and socio-
economic data for the purpose of Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation of the
project road one year after completion of the project.   Traffic data was
collected but baseline socio-economic data was not, as this was beyond the
resources of the Government.   ADB's PCR mission carried out an economic re-
evaluation based on traffic data which ADB will be confirming during their post-
evaluation, based on the latest traffic surveys available at that time.
7.          ADB should continue to collect information from MTWU with regard to
maintenance operations and expenditures on the project road since it is likely
that these will fall short of requirements and expectations.
8.          The administration of disbursements for jointly financed should be
simplified. Disbursement categories should be common to all Loan Agreements and,
where possible, withdrawal percentages should be constant for all similar
categories.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
GUADALCANAL ROA" IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
-   (CREDIT 1542-SOL)
PART T. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name:      Guadalcanal Road Improvement Project
Credi. Number:    1542-SOL
Regional Unit:    Asia Region--Country Department V
Country:           Solomon Islands
Sector:            Transport
Subsector:         Road Improvement
2.   Background
2.1         The Government's overall development strategy was based on its
"Program of Action - 1981-1984" which emphasized strengthening of the economic
base through increased and diversified agricultural production. The Government
accorded high priority to the improvement of the road transport system to assist
agricultural development in the highly fertile Guadalcanal Plains - an
economically important part of the country - by providing reliable low-cost
transportation facilities. The project was jointly co-financed with the ADB and
the OPEC Fund. It was the fourth IDA Credit for Solomon Islands and the third
operation in the country co-financed with ADB, which also served as the "lead"
institution. The credit was for SDR 2.0 million (US$2.0 million equivalent).
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The main objective of the project was to provide reliable low-cost
transportation facilities in the Guadalcanal Plains - the most fertile and
economically important part of the country with great potential for agricultural
development - and thereby support the Government's efforts to increase and
diversify agricultural  production.    The project was  also  to enhance  the
capability of the Ministry of Energy, Works and Utilities (MEWU)'/ in the design,
construction and maintenan-... of roads, primarily through on-the-job training of
its personnel in maintenance techniques, and through provision of equipment.
3.2         The project consisted of:
(a)   improvement (81 km) and rehabilitation (9 km) of about
90 km of coastal road passing mostly through the
Guadalcanal Plains;
(b)   construction of three major bridges;
'I/    In 1984 it was called the Ministry of CommunicatLons and Public
Utilities (MCPU)



-2-
(c)   procurement of construction equipment; and
(d)   consulting services to assist MEWU in implementation of
the project and to provide on-the-job training to its
staff in road construction and maintenance.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.1         The project was identified by a feasibility study, financed by ADB
and undertaken in the. second part of 1983. An ADB fact-finding mission visited
the project area in January/February 1984 and, after an in-depth review of the
study, agreed on the proposed project with the Government.          appraised the
project in the field in April 1984 and prepared an Appraisal Rep  - in June 1984.
An IDA highway mission inspected the project roads and bridges in August 1984.
The IDA Credit was negotiated by telex on December 12, 1984. The project was to
be implemented over a three-year period and be completed by December 31, 1987.
4.^.        IDA's lending strategy was in accord with that of the Government in
furthering the development potential and human resources potential through
lending which assisted the agricultural sector, primary and secondary education
and institutional development.   In recognition of the Government's limited
absorptive capacity and to avoid and/or reduce the duplication of aid donor
effort, InA has worked closely with ADB in sectors of mutual interest. This has
proved to be cost effective.
6.3       During the course of project prepaLr-tion, IDA staff in the Region and
in the OPS reviewed and commented on the project feasibility reports.  These
comments were transmitted to ADB. ADB invited IDA staff to participate in their
preparation/appraisal missions but due to short notice were unable to supply
staff.   However, a staff member from Asia Technical Infrastructure Division
subsequently visited the country and later met in Manila with ADB appraisal team
to discuss the project issues and proposed implementation arrangements. IDA was
satisfied that the project was well conceived and appropriate to the
circumstances in the Solomon Islands.
4.4         The project achieved its primary objective of improving 90 km of the
Guadalcanal Plains road to appropriate standards, and the quality of the
completed works is good. This would not have been possible without assistance
from ADB, OPEC and IDA.
5.   Project ImRlementation
5.1         Overall, the project was implemented as appraised.   However, the
appraised and actual construction differ slightly in the length of new pavement
and roadway widths (see Appendix 2 of ADB PCR, attached as Annex 1). During
construction it was discovered that many existing culverts needed replacement
which constituted a major increase in the scope of the works. Thirty-one new
culverts were built in Sections I, II and III and 19 new culverts in Sections IV,
V and VI (see Appendix 3 of ADB PCR, attached as Annex 2).
5.2         The ADB Project Manager reviewed the Ministry of Transport, Works and



-3-
Utilities (MTWU)2/ equipment resources in early 1985, arnd concluded that
additional  equipment  would  be  requ'red  to  meet  construction  deadlines.
Furthermore, MTWU decided not to move their crushing plant at White river to
Mberande river and thus could only supply limited quantities of crushed material
to the project. In February 1985, MTWU requested ADB for additional equipment,
comprising a crushing plant, a vibrating roller, a tractor, a rotary broom and
a drag broom. ADB approved the purchase of a new crushing plant in May 1985 and
some other items in September 1985, which were delivered in March and April 1986.
5.3         Because of the budgetary constraints in the wake of cyclone Namu, the
Government requested reallocation of Proceeds of the IDA Credit in September
1987.   Category (1) provided financing for civil works for improvement and
rehabilitation of 90 km of a coastal road passing mostly through the Guadalcanal
plains. The Go-vernment's request was based upon an ADB review of project costs
and local currency requirements. IDA followed ADB's recommendation to increase
the percentage of expenditures financed for category (1) from 11% to 28%. ADB
had agreed to a similar reallocation involving an increased ADB financing
percentage. The additional US$727,234 (IDA US$333,840 and ADB US$413,394) funds
available as a result of the appreciation of the SDR, including unallocated
funds, were applied towards the revised project costs. The savings in the funds
were the result of favorable material prices and design changes that reduced the
amount of materials required. The original, revised and actual project costs are
as follows:
Pro ect Cost Estimates - Original. Revised and Actual
Original           Revised 1/           Actual 2/
Project   % Con-   Project   % Con-   Project   % Con-
Cost      tribu-   Cost       tribu-   Cost        tribu-
USS mil.  tion      US$ mil.  tion      US$ mil.  tion
IDA           2.00      31       2.39 1/   32          2.16     31
ADB            2.00     31        2.39 1/   32         2.22      31
OPEC Fund     1.50      23        1.50      20         1.48     21
Government    1.00      15        1.17      16         1.19     17
Total   6.50    100        7.45      100        7.05    100
1/    Revised in September 1987 - although SDR 2.0 million was equivalent
to US$2.0  million  e  project  approval,  SDR  2.0  million  was
equivalent to US$2.3S at the time of reallocation.
2/    ADB actual project financing costs have been used.   However,
according to IDA's disbursement data in U.S. dollars, the amount
actually disbursed is US$2.25 million. The difference is accounted
for by the different exchange rates applied from SDR to U.S. dollar.
5.4         The project completion was delayed by 12 months.   The project
2/     The Ministry of Transport, Works and Utilities (MTWU) was called the
Ministry of Communications and Public Utilities in 1984.



-4-
suffered delays throughout the Implementation period, ..aainly due to insufficient
equipment being available for ,ne works, the underestimation of haul distances
for construction materials, and the much greater than anticipated dtainage works.
The delays were also attributable, inter alia, to severe cyclones, low
productivity, less than optimum equipment fleet, labor disputes and difficulties
in locating adequate supplies of subbase and base course materials. On May 6,
1986, the project force went on strike over the demand that MTWU should recognize
the union and protested the disciplinary actions taken by the Project Manager and
the Works Superintendent.   Twelve days later the strike was suspended when
Cyclone Namu hit Guadalcanal because the project labor force and equipment were
seconded by .MTWU for relief work.  Project works were not badly damaged by the
cyclone but three major bridges &eross the Poha, Ngalimbiu and Mbalisuna rivers
along the project road but not included in the project scope, were totally
destroyed and several other smaller bridges were damaged. The wlcole project team
was engaged in relief work up to mid-June. The total project force resumed work
in August 1986. On June 19, 1986, the strike was resolved when the Government
agreed to replace the Project Manager and the consultant agreed to replace his
Work Superintendent. MTWU placed an order for bitumen in mid-1987 and delivery
was expected by November 1987.  However, the ship was impounded in Australia
while enroute to the Solomon Islands because of the adverse financial condition
of the shipping company. The Government tried through various channels to secure
release of the bitumen and shipment by another carrier, but to no avail.
5.5         According to ADB's PCR, until August 1986, the project was well
managed and necessary actions were taken promptly. Following the strike in May
1986, management of the project was weakened by replacement of the expatriate
Project Manager with a less experienced national engineor who was not given
adequate support .nd assistance from his superiors in MTWU. Ir order to solve
the labor problems and improve progress, the new Project Manager started paying
inflated salaries in excess of the Government's pay scales, authorized excessive
overtime, failed to control hours actually worked and allowed discipline of the
work force to lapse. The poor administration of the project was not immediately
obvious since progress improved, but a year later the Project Manager was
suspended following an enquiry initiated through the Auditor General's office,
which found the managerial and administrative procedures to be lax and irregular,
and salaries and overtime to be excessive.   There were, however, no direct
allegations of misappropriation. In the wake of alleged misuse of funds, ADB
suspended disbursements under their loan for this project and advised IDA to do
sc. Actually, no formal suspension was put into place; several payments were
made on basis of the ADB's telex requests after ADB lifted the informal
suspension in February 1 S7.
5.6         Three and a half year implementation period was less than the norm
for implementation of IDA projects in the Pacific Islands. According to IDA's
disbursement profile for the Islands, it takes 28 quarters or seven yea:s to
fully disburse a loan/credit.  A longer project cycle would have enabled the
Government to gain the necessary experience in implementing the projects in
future thus building up their institutional capabilities.
6.   Project Results
6.1         The project realized its objective of facilitating more efficient



-5-
road transportation. At the time of the ADB PCR Mission, collection of socio-
economic data for post evaluation of benefits due one year efter project
completion, had not been initiated by the Borrower. However, 1988 data from 12-
hour counts taken over two day at three bridge sites along the project road,
included in the Consultant's September 1988 final report, showed annual traffic
growth rates over the period 1983 to 1988 fcr Section III, IV and VI as 5.0, 7.4
and 6.9 per cent respectively with a weighted average of 6.5 per cent, higher
than the 4 per cent envisaged at appraisal (see Appendix 15 of ADB PCR, attached
as Annex 3). The future traffic growth rate, however, is expected to be around
5 per cent a year. The PCR Mission re-evaluated the project using the actual
costs of construction and consultant services, inflated by the World Bank
published Manufacturers Unit Value (MUV) Index and reduced for an estimated
residual value (60%) of equipment procured under the project, as a basis to
calculate economic costs.   The same met'odology for economic evaluation as
applied at appraisal was adopted for the re-evaluation exercise (except for
maintenance cost reductions which were disregarded due to the current raintenance
regime). Vehicle operating costs were updated to 1989 prices on the basis of
information obtained by the ADB PCR Mission. The economic late of return (EIRR)
for the project, recalculated in constant 1989 prices to be 13.8 per cent
compared with 15.6 per cent estimated at appraisal, is considered satisfactory.
This is based on the assumption that the road will be maintained.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.1         The project achieved its primary objective of improving 90 km of the
Guadalcanal Plains road to appropriate standards, and the quality of the
completed works is good; but in order for the impact to be sustained, there
should be provision for adequate road maintenance budget. The ADB PCR Mission
had notsd that maintenance was almost non-existent. MTWU's Maintenance Engineer
had said he had neither physical resources nor the budget for maintenance. Since
completion of the roadworks, apart from one regrading of Section I and II and
some minor maintenance of the Matepono bridge, no maintenance had been carried
out on the Project road. Contrary to the Maintenance Engineer's statement, there
was a budget for rmaintenance. At appraisal the Government had agreed with ADB
to allocate at least SI$500 per kilometer for maintenance and in 1989, had
allocated SI$2,180 per kilometer. It appears, however, that this budget was not
used for road maintenance. The Government had also undertaken to establish plant
hire rates in order to generate resources to maintain and replace its ageing
equipment pool, and to establish unit prices for roadworks construction through
a cost accounting system.  This system was set up by the consultant but the
Borrower's appointed Financial Controller refused to implement it despite
reminders by each ADB Review Mission. In May 1988, the ADB Mission was informed
that the Government had abolished internal plant hire rates.
7.2         As  stated by ADB  in  its PCR,  it should continue  to collect
information from MTWU with regard to maintenance operations and expenditures on
the project road since it is likely that these will fall short of requirements
and the lending institutions' expectations.
7.3         Although, the project achieved its primary obJect, the replicability
of the project is not possible as project institution was not set in place (para
5.5).



-6-
8.    IDA Performance
8.1         IDA staff maintained close touch with ADB and the Government during
preparation/appraisal stages and was responsible for:
(i) reducing the scope of the project to a size compatible
with the country's implementation capabilities and
budgetary  limitations.    The  project as  originally
conceived was too ambitious, and
(ii) ensuring in the design of the project, provision for an
adequate level of road maintenance through consultant
services and the Government's assurance on preparation
of, and resources for a good project in a poor country.
8.2         The performance of IDA was adequate given the fact that ADB was
responsible for supervision of implementation of the project. The total of 5.4
IDA stiff weeks spent for supervision of this project were for desk supervision.
One field supervision mission was planned, but there is no supervision report or
indication if the mission ever took place. However, better project results might
have been achieved, had IDA participated at least once a year in supervision
missions as was proposed in the President's Report. This would have supplemented
ADB's two supervision missions a  eat -nd further assist ADB in its efforts to
stress upon the Borrower to comply with the project covenants and meet their
share of obligations.
8.3         On average  IDA  took  about nine  days  from  log date  to make
reimbursements, which is acceptable time lapse for reimbursement.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1         The Borrower was the Government of the Solomon Islands and the
Executing Agency was the predecessor of what is now the Ministry of Transport,
Works and Utilities (MTWU). The MTWU was called the Ministry of Communications
and Public Utilities in 1984. At the time of ADB loan negotiations it was agreed
that the day-to-day administration of the Project will be carried out through the
Roads and Bridges Section (RBS) of MTWU. A Project Management Office (PMO) will
be established headed by an experienced senior engirteer and staffed by two civil
engineers, a materials technician, a survey team and other technical and
administrative personnel from MTWU.   The PMO will be guided by a Project
Management Committee (PMC) comprised of senior officials of the Central and
Provincial Governments under the chairmanship of the Under Secretary (Works) of
MTWU. The Government retained the consulting firm (under ADB's Guidelines on the
Use of Consultants), which had undertaken the project feasibility study and
design to assist with construction management of the road and supervision of
bridge construction. The roadworks will be undertaken by MTWU's own departmental
forces  while  bridge  construction  was  to  be   contracted,   and  road
construction/maintenance equipment, workshop equipment, spare parts and
construction materials were to be procured under ADB's Guidelines for
Procurement. Based on ADB's Implementation Schedule, the project was expected
to take 3.5 years, ending December 1987 (see Appendix 13, of ADB PCR attached as
Annex 4).



9.2         The Government appointed a full-time Project Managor and established
a PMO by December 31, 1984. Members representing the Ministry of Finance, MTWU
and Guadalcanal Province were nominated to the PMC. However, the project was
severely understaffed through most of the construction period since MTWU did not
fill field engineering positions, and the materials technician's late arrival
reduced the time the consultant's Construction Manager could spend in the field.
9.3         Despite the initial implementation delays caused by cyclone Namu in
1986, the project was completed by the end of 1988 - 15 months behind schedule
for ADB and 12 months for IDA.   The training of MTWU staff also proceeded
satisfactorily. Although the Borrower complied with some of the Covenants, there
were several of the loan covenants were not met, e.g. (i) failure to provide
proper financial and administrative management; (ii) failure to provide some of
the required engineering and technical staff; (iii) inadequate maintenance of the
Project road; (iv) failure to establish revised plant hire rates; and (v) failure
to construct the ford across the Nggurambusu river and the Aola bridge (see
Appendix 14 of ADB PCR, attached as Annex 5). The performance of the Financial
Controller was unsatisfactory and the opportunity of establishing an acceptable
civil works costing system was wasted. In addition, he refused to provide the
consultants with any financial data concerning the project, and his inept
performance resulted in salary irregularities, which went undetected.
9.4         ADB reported that the MTWU's performance was disappointing in a
number  of  areas.    Agreed  upon  engineering/technical  staff  support  was
unavailable, and there was a general lack of interest and of involvement in the
project from senior engineering officers within MTWU. A gradual isolation of the
project from other MTWU units contributed to labor disputes and lack of
discipline on the work site, and finally the suspension of the Project Manager
due to alleged irregularities in his management of the project. The isolation
of the project and the higher salaries paid to project staff led to difficulties
in transferring them back to MTWU, and many well-trained staff were let go at the
end of the project. Out of 22 trainees taken on at the start of the project,
only 10 were transferred back to MTWU.   Some of these have yet to be given
productive assignments despite their being suitable for unfilled posts.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1        The value of services provided by ADB is considerable.  ADB was
responsible for the administration of the project and the roles were clearly
defined. However, the Loan Agreement of ADB and the Credit Agreement of IDA had
different disbursement categories. In future, where the projects are jointly
financed, the disbursement categories should be similar. This would simplify the
administration of disbursements. Another suggestion put forth by ADB was for
dispensing with loan categories for local currency expenditures. IDA should look
into tbi feasibility of this suggestion.  ADB disburses all funds through a
combinee project account, using a sub-account for each agency.
10.2        The project financing could have been coordinated to a greater degree
to simplify the administration of the proceeds of the loans and credits. The
effectiveness of the IDA Credit was delayed by four months (due to Government's
delay in submitting the legal opinion) and the Government had to make the
suppliers wait several months for reimbursement from credit proceeds which placed



- 8 -
a considerable and unnecessary financial strain on the Government and the
suppliers.   On average IDA took about nine days  from log date to make
reimbursements, which is acceptable time lapse for reimbursement.
10.3        IDA has looked into ADB's suggestion and has proposed that any minor
problems experienced in the past could be resolved through improvements in the
use of "Special Accounts."
11.   Consulting Services
11.1        The project provided for 72 man-months of foreign consultant services
for the implementation of the project consisting of: (a) construction management
of force account units for roadwork and construction supervision for bridgework;
(b) and provide on-the-Job training to MEWU staff and selected personnel of the
provinces in road construction and maintenance.  ADB's PCR reported that the
performance of the consultants was generally satisfactory, except for
deficiencies in the design phase, mainly attributable to lack of Government
support and limited time allowed under Technical Assistance. The consultant's
staff were efficient despite inadequate support from MTWU. Training of local
staff and labor was tackled with imagination and enthusiasm.  The Government
failed to fully capitalize on this opportunity due to lack of commitment.
11.2        The performance of the bridge contractor was satisfactory.  Despite
a change in scope, the work was completed within the stipulated contract period.
11.3        The performance of the sealing subcontractor was satisfactory.  Work
was performed on time and the finished surface is durable and of uniform texture.
The performance of supply contractors was satisfactory, except where the ship
carrying the second batch of bitumen was impounded; this contract was canceled.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1        The Letter of Credit Administration,  dated July 10, 1985, was
standardized between ADB and IDA to be used in subsequent projects where IDA
funds were to be administered by ADB. There were only three correspondence files
available in the Bank's Information Center; no appraisal report was prepared by
IDA, only the Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the
Executive Directors, dated January 3, 1985. An extensive search was undertaken
to see if any supervision reports were prepared by IDA staff. No supervision
reports  are available,  however.   The  task managers  for this projec.  at
headquarters were frequently changed and/or have subsequently left the Bank.
ADB's supervision for this project was timely and IDA commented on issues that
were raised by ADB, which were taken into consideration in the subsequent
missions.
12.2        Tkis PCR is largely based on ADB's PCR.  IDA files contain ADB's
supervision reports and correspondence pertaining to IDA Credit effectiveness,
extension, cost estimate revision and some general correspondence about IDA
mission travel. In future, where ADB is the lead organization, IDA should accept
ADB's PCR and should only prepare "Evaluation Summary" as the staff preparing the
PCR cannot really add anything new to what ADB has already stated in its PCR.



- 9 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
GUADALCANAL ROAD IMPR)VEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1542-SOL)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER S PERSPECTIVE
1.          The Borrower had commented on ADB's Project Completion Report in
March 1990, and was basically in general agreement with ADB's PCR, however, some
relevant and valid comments were conveyed to ADB. These comments were taken into
account when ADB finalized its PCR in May 1990. The Borrower's comments related
to the following:
(a)   Moving the White River Crusher - The Government did not
agree to move the crusher; it is the only source of
crushed aggregate for all public works in Honiara.
(b)   Length of Consultant Services - Why the consultant was
only given 3.5 months to carry out detailed engineering;
manifestly, quite insufficient for the task.
(c)   Construction Equipment - A situation/condition survey of
the Government's plant holding during appraisal would
have avoided underestimation of equipment. To have a
workable and reliable work programme for subsequent
implementation, a thorough resource analysis during the
design study is a basic requirement.
*d)   Staff support - MTWU was never in a position to fill
field engineering positions and could provide little, if
any, support, and
(e)   Loan Covenants - Whilst the criticism of non-compliance
with loan covenants is undoubtedly justified; some
covenants were impractical, i.e., plant hire rates were
phased out by the Government on January 1, 1986 and
provision of a ford across was never a practical
proposition for MTWU, and
2.          A visiting World Bank mission from headquarters, left a copy of the
PCR report (Parts I and III) with the Government to comment and prepare Part II,
Project Review from Borrower's perspective. A follow-up telex was sent to the
Government requesting them to prepare Part II, Project Review from Borrower's
perspective, and send it to IDA by May 17, 1991.  As of today, we have not
received the Government's submission.
3.          As the Borrower has already commented on ADB's PCR and this report
is largely based on ADB's PCR, the Borrower may feel less inclined to comment
again. IDA's PCR has taken above comments into consideration.



- 10 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLAND8
GUADALCANL DROAD IMPROVEHENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1542-SOLI
PRT IIIs STATISTICAL DATA
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit                                 Year of
Title                Purpose            Approval    Status       Comments
Second Roads Project    Improvement of                  Dropped from the
road sections to               Lending Program at
facilitate traffic             Government's request
on October 31. 1988,
2.    Prolect Timetable
IItm              Planned      Revised     Actual
-  Identification                                       01/24/84 (ADB)
- Preparation
- Appraisal                                             04/23/84 (ADB)
- Post-appraisal                                        08/08/84 (ADB)
- Negotiations                                          12/19/84 (BY TELEX OF
12/21/84)
- Board Approval               01/22/85                01/22/85
- Credit Signature             02/13/85                02/13/85
- Credit Effectiveness         05/14/85                07/11/85
- Credit Closing               06/30/88    06/30/89    06/26/89
- Credit Completion            12/31/87
Comments:   Project Policy Department - Policy and Review Unit
(PPDPR)  raised  the  following  points,  which  were
discussed over the phone and were taken into account in
the Grey Cover documents:
(a)   joint financing wita the OPEC Fund has the danger of the
Fund not agreeing to the Bank list of countries for ICB
and, furthermore, not agreeing to award a contract to
the lowest evaluated on the basis of Fund's boycott
clause. The region must be very careful during project
supervision to ensure the application of proper
procurement procedures;
(b)   in dialogues with the Government, the region should try
to persuade the Government to re-introduce satisfactory
fuel taxes parti-ilarly since the present level seems to
be covering only an insufficient portion of road
investments and maintenance; and
(c)   kindly update the cost estimates to reflect the price
basis as of the time of negotiations, and include in the
President's Report the standard procurement table.



- 11 
3.    Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Appraisal Estimate                     0.5    1.1    1.7    2.0    2.0
Actual                                 0.0    0.7    1.3    1.8    2.2
Actual as % of Estimate                 0%    64%    77%    90%   110%
Date of Final Disbursement - 06/26/89
4.    Project Implementation
Appraisal                        Actual (or
InLdicators                  Estimate                         PCR Estimate)
Selective participation i.n ADB supervision missions      Non-compliance due
at least once a year.                                    to availability of
staff, however,
contact   was   main-
tained through ADB.



- 12 -
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate    Revised Estimate            Actual
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
---- US$ million----  ----US$ million----  ----US$ million----
l.Imp.& Rehab.Rd.1.00   1.10  2.10           n/a               1.60  0.93   2.53
2.Cons.of bridge 0.20   0.70  0.90                             0.17  0.75   0.92
3.cons.equipment    -   1.50  1.50                             0.00  2.55   2.55
4.consult.serv.      -   0.70  0.70                            0.00  1.04   1.04
Base cost         1.20   4.00  5.20                           1.77  5.7Z Z 7.05
Contingencies
Physical       0.10   0.40  0.50                             0.00  0.00   0.00
Price          0.20   0.60  0.80                             0.00  0.00   0.00
Total Proj.Cost  1.50   5.00  6.50                             1.77  5.2I   7.05
Total Fin. Reg.  1.50   5.00  6.50                             1.77  5.21   7.05
SOURCE: ADB Project Costs - ADB Appendix 6 (Attached as Annex 6)
B. Project Financing
Sour,ce       Agreement   Revised   % 1/  Final   % 2/   Comments
=------------US$ million--------------
IDA                      2.00        2.39  32      2.16   31
ADB                      2.00         2.39  32     2.22   31
OPEC Fund                1.50         1.50  20     1.48   21
Government               1.00         1.17  16     1.19   17
Total             7.50         7.45 100      7.05  100
1/    IDA revision in September 1987 - although SDR. 2.0 million was equivalent
to US$2.0 million at project approval, SDR . J million was equivalent to
US$2.39 million at the time of reallocation
2/    ADB actual project financing costs have been used.  However, according
to IDA's disbursement data in U.S. dollars, the amount actually
disbursed is US$2.25 million. The difference is accounted for by the
different exchange rates applied from SDR to U.S. dollar.
SOURCE: ADB Project Costs - Appendix 6 (Attached as Annex 6)



- 13 -
6.    Project Results
Quantifiable project benefits are mainly savings in vehicle operating
costs. The project supported the Government's efforts to increase and diversify
agricultural production by providing reliable low-cost transportation facilities
in one of the most agriculturally fertile and economically important parts of the
country.
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal   Actual at   a/      Growth Rate (% p.a.)
Insdicators                Estimate    Closing Date    Estimate-APR       Actual
Estimated and Actual
Annual Daily Traffic
Mavo Bridge                     206           216             4.0            5.0
Vouza Bridge                    347          407              4.0            5.0
Mberande Bridge                  52            60             4.0            6.9
a/    No breakdown by vehicle category was available and counts were
conducted over 12 daylight hours and extrapolated to 24 hours using
factors given in the feasibility study report.
SOURCE: ADB PCR Appendix 15 (Attached as Annex 3)
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal                   Actual
Estimate            (At Final DeveloRment)
Economic
Rate of Return                        15.8                        13.8
Underlying
Assumptions
Changes in Cost                      10% increase  a/
Benefits                  15% lower
ERR drop to               12%
One year Delay in Project
Completion
ERR would drop to         14%
a/    Information extracted from para 52 of World Bank President's Report
dated January 3, 1985.
b/    Same methodology at appraisal was adopted for the re-evaluation
exercise.



- 14 -
C. Financial Impact (where relevant)
Without        Future with
Project          Project           Actual
Financial
Rate o2f Retur
Other Financial
Indicators                  Not available.
Fiscal Impact a/
Al i.e. Impact of project on local/central government finances.
D. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                       Impact of
Aopraisal          Status          Study
No studies under the project.
Comments



- 15 -
7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant/Subiect                                  Com2liance      Status
Section 3.01.(a)  The Borrower shall carry            no deadline    Partial
out the Project through MEWU with due                              compli-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity                          ance.
with appropriate administrative, financial,
and engineering practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, s(ervices and other resources required
for the purpose.
Section 3.01.(b)  Without limitation on the           no deadline    Complied.
provision of sub-section (a) above, the
Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out all the obligations set forth
in Schedule 6 to the ADB Loan Agreement.
Notwithstanding the termination of the ADB
Loan Agreement or the Administrative Letter,
the provision of this sub-section and the
relevant provisions of Schedule 6 of the ADB
Loan Agreement shall continue to remain in
force and effect as if the said provisions
of Schedule 6 of the ADB Loan Agreement are
fully set forth herein.
Section 3.02.  In order to assist MEWU with           no deadline    Complied.
road and bridge construction and training of
MEWU staff, the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and term.' and conditions
of employment shall be satislictory to the
Association, such consultants to be selected
and employed in accordance with principles and
procedures of selection and employment included
in Schedule 5 to the ADB Loan Agreement, pro-
vided always that consultants in countries in
respect of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account may be made pursuant to Section 5.01 of
the General Conditions shall be eligible to
provide services under this Section.
Section 3.03.(a)  The Borrower undertakes to          no deadline    Complied.
insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable



- 16 -
in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03.(b)  The Borrower shall cause all        no deadline    Partial com-
goods and services financed out of the                             pliance.
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively                      Audit report
for the purposes of the Project.                                   by Borrower
indicates
irregular-
ities in
payment
of salaries
and
overtime.
Section 3.04. (a)  The Borrower shall furnish         no deadline    Complied.
to the Association, promptly upon their pre-
paration, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and pro-
curement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04.(b)  The Borrower shall: (1) rnain-    no deadline    Compliance
tain records and procedures adequate to                            not clear
record and monitor the progress of the                             with respect
Project (including its costs and the benefits                       to salaries
to be derived from it), to identify the goods                       and
and services financed out of the proceeds of                        overtime.
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and cons-
truction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.04.(c)  Upon the award by the Borrower   no deadline    Complied.
of any contract for goods, works or services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.



- 17 -
Section 3.04.(d)  Promptly after completion of        Six months    Complied.
the Project, but in any event not later than        after         Report
six months after the Closing Date or such later   Closing         Submitted
date as may be agreed for this purpose between    Date            to ADB
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the
axecution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Associaticn of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.01.(a)  The Borrower shall maintain or   No data          Compliance
cause to be maintained records adequate to                        not clear
reflect in accordance with consistently                           with respect
maintained appropriate accounting practices the                   to salaries
operations, resources and expenditures, in                        and overtime
respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.01.(b)  Without limitation to the                         Complied.
foregoing, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or
cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expen-
diture; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Accourt
on the basis of Statement of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records.
Section 4.01.(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have       Six months     Complied
the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of       after the
this Section for each fiscal year audited,         end of each
in accordance with appropriate auditing           year.
principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including without limitation to the



- 18 -
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statermnts of expenditure have been used for
the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accounts, records
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Sogti2A..402.  The Borrower shall cause the           no dead-        Partially
Project facilities to be operated, maintained    line               complied.
and repair4d in accordance with sound adminis-                     Maintenance
trative, rinancial, engineering, development                        inadequate.
and maintenance and operational practices and
shall provide the funds, facilities, services
and other resources for the purpose.
Section 4.03.  The Association may, by notice         Life of         Complied.
to the Borrower, delegate to the ADB under an    the
administrative letter, for the duration of          Project
such period as may be set forth in the
Administration Letter, any or all of its
functions and responsibilities under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement and the Borrower
shall comply with the provisions of the said
Articles as if the ADB is substituted for the
Association therein. The obligation of the
Borrower to comply with said Articles III and
IV shall continue in force and effect notwith-
standing any termination or suspension of such
delegated functions and responsibilities to the
ADB under the Administration Letter.



- 19 ^
8.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
~~~~. . ............................ .... ......... .... ......... ..... ................. ... ........ ......... ............. .
Stage of
Prolect Cycle          --Planned-    -Revised       Final  a/
Through Appraisal                                    6.2
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                       1.6
Board approval
through
effectiveness                                        6.5 b/
Supervision                                          5.4 c/
T+otal                                         19.7
a/   This was an ADB/IDA/OPEC Fund cofinanced project - there was no
direct IDA participation in appraisal.   A Senior Procurement
Specialist went on a post-appraisaL mission prior to ADB's
finalization of its appraisal report.   The IDA's  input was
incorporated by ADB.
b/   Includes time spent on COF and PAD
c/   Reflects "desk-time" devoted to review of ADB reports associated
with the Project over 4.9 years. Although from the information in
the files, therb is correspondence on the timing clearance for a
supervision mission but nothing else. The staff working directly
with the project have left the Bank.



- 20 -
B. Missions
Days                  Performance
Stage of     Month/   No. of    in   Speciaiization   Rating         Types of
Project       Year    Persons Field  ReRresented a/       Status b/  Prob, c/
Through
appraisal     8/84       1       7    Procurement  d/
Appraisal
through
Board
Approval
Board Approval
through Effec-
tiveness
Supervision
a/    Key to Specialization
b/    Key to Status
c/    Key to Problems
d/    This was an ADB/IDA/OPEC Fund cofinanced project - there was no
direct IDA participation in appraisal and field supervision.
C. Costs (if available from MIS)
Total $ Cost      Average $ Cost    Average $ Cost of Field
Stage of           of Staff        of HQ Activities    Activity per mission
Pro j ect CyQcle      IRInDu%s     per Mission Member           Member
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
NOT AVAILABLE
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision



IDA: ANNEX 1
- 21 -                                                    AD3B:  Appendix 2
......~~~.       .... .   ..   .........   ..   . .. .
PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
........................     ... ............ 
APPRAISAL REPORT                                         ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION
.   .........                      .                         .
SECTIOt,f ,                . , . a_,   Su........a....e.  v_d ... wLPavemen    egt    Su                                              Should     Thicheu
Width                          TYPe   Y4d&                   WidtWh u/Sse nfl
__ __ __ __ __ __                  (b)                                  (is)            (i)                           tms)              (is)      (mm)
. ....... ................. ..............  : . ..    ..... .....;..... .:.
I TaabesTea                               1                                                          9.5.
Tambm - Team                                                          9.S   ~~~~~Gravel    8.4 dl                                .150
. 21    Gravd                                 6.0    8.9    Grvd                      8.4 *I150
T T s - Ndoma                              1                                                          1.3 c/ DBST                 6.0                 1.2    150/10
.........  .........  ...   ..   .   ..  .        .                           ..       ...      '        .        ;       .        ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  .   ....
Ut Ndoma- PoI                                       15    DBST b/                          6.0   15.2    DBST                      6.0                 1.2           150/100
... ........... ...... . ... ...    .....                                                                                             .......    .....    ...   .......   .........    .........
.       ....    ................. ... ....... ....   . .   .... ...,;
IV Nglim b-Malisu                                   9 A/ 0BS                              7.0   11.4    DBST                      6.0                 1.2    15U240 .
. .,,........ ....... ........                                                                                           6.0  ......... ...   4..  ......... ..  '! ''i''''''      ''
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......                                                                  .. .,,  ..   , . ..    .......... ..........',  ;,,,,.,,._
V 8 Mbajiuaua . Mburae                             6   DBST                              6.0   6.6   DBST    6.0                                    1.2  . 10
............... .........    ........   ...  ..  .   ....                 .. . .      .        ......       .       .          .    ...   .. ..    ...........I............. ...... .....
...................   .   . . ..                                                                                                                   .. . ..   ..........i...........
VI MbereaeKo  b.                                  39    Gavl/                             3.0  39.0    anvl    4.0                             :Il00
................................  .......                                                             ~~~~~~...  .  .   .. ........   .........................................
Earth
I TOTALS                                       90                                                Sl.9
. ...                                                                                      ... ... ... ... ..    ......................: . . . . .. . ....... .... .................. .........   .........................
I Rebita-Sr of damaged serAm ofexitig pavem   oil y.
.                                                                                                        .. ... .   . ... .   .   .    .  .    . . .. . . . ... . .. ..... ..... .......... .. . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .. ..   . ...
b/ DBST: Double Dthumio  Surface Treatment.
.          .. . ... .   . . ..  .   ..
c/ Approach mao.to Sum bridW  with Mgep gadie.
di Due to fight of way _,u1uaints, the tmndard overal with of 8.4 m wa reduced to 5.0 a
throu so vslao.
e/ Cnshed grvd b    couse (CBR > 85%). Subbas courn (or wearing course for grvei sectioos):
blended corl and river gravel (CBR > 35%).
U Pavement doign for DBST sections based on cumulative ESAL of 125,000 for the Ndoma-Pobaction
and 5 10,000 for the Ngalimbiu-Mberande eCtioa expected over a 20 year period. Subgnmde dsugi CBRs
of S per    .ert ad                 .
gl Parly made up frorom al  bas.
Source: Coasa's Repot.



- 22 -
tDA: NMIN 2
Faq 7    of 4
A;DS:  Aoflflpd$
Page 1
ORAINASE sT.ACTURES
(dimonsions in mm)
Section T: Tambea tQ Tenaro
CHAINAGE                                  DESCRrPTIrN
o + 000              Now bridge: Bailey cridge deck on twlii GlOx 228 US steel
beams.
0 + 120              Existing culvert: 900 x 900 concrete box.
0 + 300              New bridge: Bailey bridge deck on twin 610 x 228 US steel
beams.
0 + 850              Repaired culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
I + 100/            New bridge: Bailey bridge deck on twin 610 x 220 US steel
beams: two spans.
I + 950              Repaired concrete ford (later removed by NMTWU).
2 + 150              Existtng culvert: tw1n 600 die concrete pipos.
2 + 500              Repaired culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
3 + 250              New concrete ford.
4    100             Existing culvert: 1200 concr-Ite box.
4 + 400              New concrete ford.
4 * 850              New culvert: 1200 die Armco pipe.
5 + 200              Repaired concrete ford.
5 * 700              New culvert: 450.dia concrete pipe. 
6 + 100.             Exislng culvert: 600 die concrete pipe.
6 + 400              New culvert: 900 dia Armco pipe.
6 + 550              New culvert: twin 375 die asbestos coment pipes.
a + 8oo              New culvert: twin 375 dia asbestos cement pipes.
7 + 050              Existing culvert: 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
7+ 200               New culvert: 900 die Armco pipe.
7 + 400              New culvert: twin 600 dia concrete pipes.
7 + 700              R4paired concrete ford.
8 + 000              New culvert: twin 375 dla asbestos cement pipes.
8 + 200              Existing concrete ford: repaired.
8 + 400              New culvert: 450 die concrete pipe.
8 + 650              Existing culvert: 900 x 900 concrete box.
8 + 750              Existing concrete ford: repaired.
9 + SOO              New bridge: Bailey bridge.
Sect.ion II: Tenaro - Nd!,-a
0 + 650              New cjlvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
0 + 580              New Dridge: Bailey bridge.
1 + 020              New vented ford: 5 x 600 die concrete pipes.
1 + 390              New culvert: 1800 dia Armco pipe.
1 + 440              New culvert: 1200 die Armco pipe.
2 + 200              Existing culvert: 2 x 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
2 + 600              New culvert: 600 die concrete pipe.
Al Built by NTWU.
Reference in text:  par. 20, pag  4.



- 23 -
IDA: A.N.EX 2
Page 2 of 4
AD3:  Ac*endix 
Page 2
2 4 800             Existing culvert: oil drum pipe.
3 + 425             New Project bridge: low-level RC deck on tutular steel
piles (Sasaa River).
4 4 690             Existing concrete ford: repaired.
S + 500             New culvert: 900 dia Armeo pipe.
6 + 640             New culvert: 1200 dia Armco pipe.
7I+ 620             Exising culvert: 600 dia concrete pipes,
4+ 440             Existing culvert: aoprnx 4.5m di& corrigited metal pipe.
8   T O00           New culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
* + 020             New culvert: twin 375 dia asbestos cement nipe.
9 + 430             Existing concrete ford: repaired.
9 + 900             Concrete bridge:  existing.
Section !I   Ndoma - Poha
1 + 010             Existing concrete bridge.
0+ 800              New culvert: 3 x 1200 Armeo pipes.
I + 635             New culvert: 1 x 1800 Armeo pipe.
2 + 320             New'vented ford: 3 x 1200 Armco pipes and 2 x 600 concrote
pipes.
2 + 960             New culvert: 2 x 1200 Armeo pipes.
3 + 5O             Existing concrete bridge: needs attention (Umasani River).
4*  130             New culvert: 2 x 1200 Armco pipes.
5 + 260             Now culvert: 1200 Armeo pipe.
.6+ 965             Existing concrete bridge (Mavo River).
7?  210             New culvert: 2 x 600 dia concrete pipes.
7 + 250             New culvert: 1 x 1800 Armeo pipe.
I + 290             New culvert: 2 x 600 concrete pipes.
a + 575             Existing culvert: 2 x 2100 concrete box.
9 4 6865            Existing Bailey bridge: lOOft OS plus 130ft S'S' in two
spans (modlfied June 1988) (Mbonege River).
9 + 825             Existing culvert: 2 x 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
9 + 965             New culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
10 + 380             New culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
10 + 700             New culvert: 900 Armco pipe.
11 + 375             New culvert: 2 x 1200 Armco pipes.
12+ 475              N3w culvert: 2 x 1200 Armco pipes.
12 + 87S             New culvert: 1200 Armco pipes.
13 + 925             Existirg vj1v(rt: 3 x 1200 Armco pipes.
15 + 250             Vented  cer,  (Poha River) built by US Seabees after cyclone.
Section IV: Naalimbiu - mbaisun
0 + 000             New high level steel truss bridge (ODA financed), (Ngalimbiu
River).
1 + 200             New culvert: new 3 x 1200 Armco pipes plus old 100 Armco
pipe.
A/  Built by ITWU.



IDA:  ASOEX2
- 24 -                          Page 3 of 4
ADB:   A9D     d.e.4
Page 3
2 + 340             Exist1ng culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
2 + 430             Existing culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
2 + 50             Existing culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
4 + 740             Existing bridge: high level, composite deck, needs
attention (Matepono River).
5 + 040             Now culvert: 1200.Armco pipe.
S + 340             Existing culvert: 2 x 600 concretedbipes 
6 + 090             Existing culvert: 3 x 1200 ArmCo pips.
6 + 730             Existing culvert: 3 x 600 concrete pipes.
6 + 6oo             Now culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
7 + 030             New culvert: 900 Armco pipe.
7 + 600             Existing culvert: 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
* + 260             Existing culvert: 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
a + 590             New culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
* + 820             Existing culvert: 1200 x 1200 conCrete box.
10 + 320             Existing Culvert: 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
10 + 720             Existing culvert: 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
11 + 030             New culvert: 1200 Armco Pipe.
11 + 960             New bridge: medium level concrete (ODA ftnanced), (Nbal sun
River).
Section V: Mbalisuna - Mberando
12 + 190             Existing culvett: 900 x 900 concretibox.
12 + 310             Existing culvert: 900 x 900 concrete box.
13 + 450             New culvert: existing 1200 x 1200 concrete box plus new 1200
Armco pipe.
14 + 550             Existing culvert: 1200 x 1200 concrete box.
14 + 860             Existing bridge: high level, concrete.
16 + 860             New culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
18 + 120             New culvert: 000 Armco Pipe.
18 + 150             New weir: concrete paved causeway.
18 + 550             New Project bridge: low-level concrete (Mberands River).
SetionMI: Mberande - Xcmbi=
0 + 080             New culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
2 + 150             Exstirg culvert: 600 dia concrete Pipe.
2 + 550             New .ented ford: 2 x 1200 dia Armco pipes.
3 + 050             New culvert: 1200 dia Armco pipe.
3 + 450             Neo culvert: 1200 dia Armco pipe.
4 + 200             EAisting culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
4 + 650             Existing culvert: 1200 Armco pipe.
5 + 700             New culvert: 600 dia concrec. pipe.
6 + 300             Existing culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
T + 400             New vented ford: 2 x 1200 dia Armco pipes.
8 + 350             New culvert: 2 x 1200 dia ArMco pipos.
9 + 600             Existing culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
10 + 800             New concrete ford.
10 + 960             New Pro;ect bridge: low level RC deck on tubular steel
piles (Mbokokimbo River).



- 25 -                        IDA: AXS'  2
Pa&e 4 of 4
Ai3: A&ledi
Page 4
It + 450.           New concrete ford.
11 + 850            Existing culvert: 600 concrete pipe.
13 + 600            Existing culvert: 600 concrete pipe.
13 + 850            Existing culvert: details not ascertained.
16 + 250            Existing culvert: details not ascertained.
16 + Goo            Existing culvert: details not ascertainod.
I? + oooa/          New culvert: 2 x 900 dia Arumo pipes.
17 + 400j/          Now bridge: 60ft *S Bailey bridge.
17 + MOAl           Now bridge: 90 ft SSR Bailey bridge.
22 + 850            New culvert: 1200 dia Armco pipe.
23 + 550            Existing culvert, 900 dia concrete pipe.
24 + 450            New culvert: 1200 dia Armco pipo.
26 + 200            New vented ford: 2 x 1200 Armco pipes.
26 + 900            Existing culvert: details not ascertained.
27 + 100            New vented ford: 2 x 1200 dia Armco pipes.
28 + 900            Existing stroam bed ford (Nggurambusu River).
29 + 950            Existing culvert: 600 d1a concrete pipe.
30 + 750            Existing culvert: 1000 die Armco pipe.
31 + 700            Proposed vented ford: 2 x 1200 Aruco pipes.
32 + 850            Existing culvert or proposed new culvert:
details not ascertained.
33 + 900            Proposed new culvert: 600 dia concrete pipe.
34 + 350            Existing log bridge (Aola River).
35 + 150            Proposed new culvert: 600 die concoete pipe.
35 +.450            Proposed new culvert: 600 die concrete pipe.
36 + 500            Existing log bridge.
Source: The Consultant.
W/ Built by MTWU.



- 26 -
IDA:   ANNEX 3
ADB;   &Qoendix 15
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ANNUAL DAILY TRAEFFC
Cars,    Light    Heavy
XaAr                         Pick-upa  Trucks   Truekh   ToIaI
Mayo .r.1'do A/      1983 Actual                    109        29       31       169
1968 Estimated                 132       35        39      206
1968 Actual gI                                             216
Growth rate (X p.a.):
Estimated (Appraisal)                                     4.0
Actual                                                    S.0
Youza uridga hf      1983 Actual                    107        99       TO       2i5
1988 Estimated                 130      121        96      34?
1988 Actual                                                40?
Growth rate (S p.&.):
Estimated (Appraisal)                                     4.0
Actual                                                    5.0
Mb.rande Brida  S/  1983 Actual                       10        7       26        43
1988 Estimated                  12        8        32       52
1988 Actual                                                 60
Growth (X p.&.):
Estimated (Appraisal)                                     4.0
Actual                                                    6.9
Located on Section III (17 km west of Honiara).
Located between Sections IV and V (36km east of Honiara).
Located between Sections V and VI (44 km east of Honiara).
No breakdown by vehicle category is available and counts were conducted over 12
daylight hozsrs and extrapolated to 24 hours using factors given in the feasibih y
study report.
Source:   Feasibility Study Report, April 1984 and Consultant's Final Report,
September 1988.
Reference In text: para. 65, page 12.



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1984               1 9B5               1986                1987                1988               1989
A C T I v I T I E  sJ|JS J9|tt-JJtJ
Pirocwtment at Equipment
Consuuctaon
B. BA.U.iL.  COMPONsENF
P4eqt6alflocatwan of Conatioialt
Tendea 4dli Cuntifaci Awaad
C. CONSULTING SERVICES                                                                                                                                   co   tj
Reciusimenl at Cornsutankis
Consiguction Management 
I       I A,..A.                                                             !SSour~ce   I.sk     i  u



-28-                    IDA:  ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
ADB:  Appendix 14
Page 1
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENAS: LOAN NO. 704-SOL(SP)
Particular Covenants                          Connwliance
Covenants Relative to Loan
Eff.ctivents.s ISec 6.01. L.A.)               Complied.
(a)  obtain IDA Credit or make other
arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, to commit the provision of
foreign currency funds intended
to be provided by the IDA Credit;
(b) obtain the OPEC Fund Loan or         Complied.
make  other  arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, to commit
the provision of the foreign
currency funds intended to be
provided by the OPEC Fund Loan.
Cgenants Relative to Pro. ec.
Im2lemen&&U2n
1.  The Borrower shall cause all goods and    Partial compaliace. Audit
services financed out of the proceeds of  report  by   Borrower
the Loan to be used excluively to         indicates irregulrities in
carry out the Project (L.A. Section       payment of salaries and
3.04).                                   overtime.
2.   Due diligence and efficiency and in       Partial compliance.
conformity with sound administrative,
financial,  engineering   and   road
maintenance practices in carrying out
the Project (Sec. 4.01, L.A.)
3.  Availability of funds, facilities, services,  Complied   except  for
land and other resources required, in     inability to fill some staff
addition to loan proceeds (Sec. 4.02,     positions.
L.A.).
4.   Employment of competent and qualified    Complied.
consultants and contractors, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank (Sec. 4.03, L.A.)
5.  Insurance of Project facilities (Sec.      Complied.
4.05, L.A.).
Reference in text para. 58, page 10..



-29-             IDA: ANNX 5
.Page 2 of 4
ADB: A02endixL1A
Page 2
6.   Maintenance of records and accounts       Compliance not clear with
adequate to identify the goods and        respect to salaries and
services   and   other  items  of         overtime
expenditures financed out of the loan
proceeds (Sec. 4.06(a), L.A.).
7.   Submission of audited accounts and        Complied.
financial statements and the report of
the auditors relating thereto, all in the
English language (Sec. 4.06(b), L.A.).
S.   Submission-of progress reports on the     Compliance only  during
carrying out of the Project and on the    term   of  consultant's
operation  and  management of the         services.
Project facilities (Sec. 4.07(b), L.A.).
9.   Preparation and submission to the Bank,   Complied.
Borrower's Report on the execution and
initial  operation  of  the  Project,
including its cost, the performance of
its  obligations  under  the  Loan
Agreement and accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan (Sec. 4.07(c), L.A.)
10.  The Executing Agency, Ministry of         Complied.
Transport, Works and Utilities (MTWU)
of the Borrower shall establish a
Project  Management  Office  (PMO)
responsible  for  the   day-to-day
implementation and management of the
Project (Sch. 6, item 2(a)).
11.  The  PMO  shall be headed  by  an         Full-time Project Manager
experienced senior engineer as the full-  appointed.   Other staff
time Project Manager and shall be         positions   not  filled
properly ecq .pped and staffed by an      t h r o u g h o u t  t h e
adequate nu;iber of experienced and       implementation period.
qualified personnel (Sch. 6, items (b)
and (c)).



IDA:  ANNEX 5
-30 -                        Page 3 of 4
ADB:  &R2*41L
Page 3
12i  The IPMO sha  establish appropriate     Not complied; although
cost  and accounting systems for the    appropriate costing and
Project and an experienced individual   accounting systems were
shall be appointed to assist the PMO on  established   by  the
a full-time basis in the maintenance of  C o n s u I t a n t,  t h e
proper records and preparation of       Government discarded the
detailed accounts (Sch. 6, item VWd).   coeUng system.
13. Establishment of a least three field sub-  Partial compliance.
divisions within the Roads and Bridges
Section (RBS) under the supervision of
the Project Manager, and each sub-
division shall be adequately stafted
with exprienced personnel and shall be
responsible for field operations (Sch. 6,
item 3).
14. Establishment of a Project Ma&iagement   Co m p lie d:  re v i**d
Committee (PMC) comprising the Under    organisatiom approved by
Secretary  (Works)  of  MTWU  (as       the Bank.
Chairman), Undersecretary (Finance)
MTWU, Chief Civil Engineer of MTWU
arid  the   Guadalcanal  Provincial
Secretaryo, with the Project Manager                     -
acting as secretary to the PMC (Sch. 6,
Item 4).
15. The Borrower shall ensure that the       Not complied: maintenance
roads and bridges under the Project     is inadequate.
are properly maintained and that
adequate budgetary allocations are
made for this purpose (Sch. 6, item
6(a)(i).
16. The PMO, assisted by the Consultants     Complied.
engaged under the Project, shall
prepare a detailed road maintenance
program.   The program  should be
submitted to the Bank for review and
should take the comments of the Bank,
if any, into account prior to the
implementation of the program (Sch. 6,
item 6(a)(ii)).
17. The Borrower shall establish revised     Not complied.
rates for the hire of equipment from
the MTWU equipment pool in order to
provide adequate funds for maintenance
and spare parts. (Sch. 6, item 6(b)).



IDA: ANNEX 5
-31 -                     Page 4 of 4
ADB: ADDfendis 14
Page 4
18. The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to   Complied.
be  furnished,  to  the  Bank  a
comprehensive construction program for
the Project, including such matters as
construction timetable, target dates for
critical activities and estimates of
expected expenditure (Sch. 6, item 7(a)).
19.  MTWU   shall  ensure  that  the          Bridge design revised and
construction of the Mbokokimbo bridge    built under the Project.
is completed in a timely manner utilizing
the Bailey panels and timber decking
from the existing Ngalimbiu bridge (Sch.
6, item 7(b)).
20.  Submission to the Bank of detailed       Complied.
designs prepared by the Consultants in
collaboration with MrTWU for the
rehabilitation and upgrading of the
existing paved road between Ngalimbiu
and Vouza bridge, for review and
approval (Sch. 6, item 7(c)).
21.  Borrower  shall  ensure  that  the       Due  one  year  after
necessary traffic and socio-economic     completion of the Project.
data in the influence area of the        As base-line data was not
Project road are properly compiled and   collected, this requirement
analyzed in order to facilitate the       will be  waived; a  re-
monitoring  and .evaluation  of the      evaluation can be made
Project. Analysis of the data should be  using traffic data.
submitted to the Bank (Sch. 6, item 8).
22.  Construction of an engineered ford       Waived.
across the Nggurambusu river and
timber bridge across the Aola river in
order  to   establish   through
communications on the Project road.
(Sch. 6, item 9).
Source: Bank's records.



- 32 -                     ~~~IDA:  ANNEX 6
ADB: Appendix 6
.~~~~~PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
-APPRAtSAL                      ACTUAL                 Ovegrua
FX       LC   TOTALLC                       TOTAL (Uodctrun)
IASA ResWOwb                             0.509    0.945    1.454    0.927     1.606      2.S33      1.079,
.......53ml..003                                 04       097       07       0.165      0.9 12    (0.025)
..* ..2..    ............ ... . .u...... .IA455  0.005     1.460    2.296,              2.296      0.836
3    coauebas Mdisda                    0.64S              0.645    0.2430.4                      (00)
4   ajaultaw Suevim            .     0.640    0.010    0.670    0.994    0.004    O. 099        0.328
6                                   , koChm0.035           0.035    0.049          ,    0.049      0.014
7    Pilot TA Piumasiq    ,  ~~0.047            0.047    0.019                009       (008
S    Phyia Codagoi                      0.397    0.119'  0116                           00         056
Pil. Emsodsoa                     0.549    0.187    0.736                         0.000     (-?
:TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               5.000    1.500    6.500    5.275    1.775'    7.050         S
...,. .  .. . .. . .. . . . . ... . . ..   .. . .       .     . .. . . .   . ...     . . .. . .. .. . . . . .   . .   . .   .   . .  
........ . ....... ..  . ..(...illo.
-.APPRAISAL                      ACT UAL.                Oveffun
FI  LC  TOTA L         EX       LC     TOTAL  (Undemn)
Dank                                1.75     0.25     2.00      1.96     0.26       2.22      0.22
IMDA                                1.75     0.25     2.00      1.94     0.22       2.16      0.16~
OPEC                                1.50      -        .50     1.38      0.10       1.48     (0.02'1
Donowot            I      - I   ~~~~~~ ~~1.00,    1.00        1.19      1. 19      0.191
-TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING           5.00      1.50     6.50,    5.28      1.77      7.03,      0.55
Scume: Bank's meotds.
Reference in text: paras. 39 and 44, page 8.



