RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-844
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR THE
THIRD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
June 11, 1970



I'TTERIU{. TION.fJ, BMiKr FOR BIECONSTRTJCTION AND DEVJELOP'ENT
REPORT AND R MOiMIFDATION OF THE PRESIDEIN
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC!A ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR THE THIRD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in various currencies equivalent to US$6.3 million
to the Repulblica Oriental del Uruguay, to assist in the financing
of a third livestocl; project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed-loan would be the third for livestock
development in Uruguay. In December 1959, the Bankl made a US$7 million
loan to Uruguay for a livestock pilot project. One of the purposes of
the loan was to demonstrate to the nation's ranchers the advantages of
modern techniques of pasture improvement and management. The results of
the pilot project were so encouraging that the Bank agreed to make a
second livestock loan in the amount of US$12.7 million in lNarch 1965
which has been fullyr disbursed. Despite the technical success achieved
under the first two loans, beef and wool production and export targets
were not realized until 1968.  Inflation, discriminatory export taxation,
credit limitations and the high costs and inefficiency of the meat packing
industry were major factors reducing the profitability of livestock pro-
duction and investment incentives to ranchers. As stated below, the
Government has recently taken a number of important steps which have
restored investment incentives to a satisfactory level.
3.        The third livestock project was appraised in NIay and October
1969, and after some delay occasioned by discussions with the Uruguayan
Government regarding its general economic and livestock sector policies,
negotiations took place in ,4ashington from May 18 to May 22, 1970.  The
Government of Uruguay was represented at these negotiations by ISessrs.
Hector Luisi, Uruguayan Ambassador in Washington, Benito Kedero, Vice-
President of the Honorary Livestock Commission, Jos6 R. E. Nogu6z, Deputy
General Manager of the Central Bank and Carlos Ricci, General IIanager of
the Bank of the Republic.
4.        The proposed loan would increase the Bank's total lending to
Uruguay to US$108.5 million.  The following is a summary statement of
Bank loans to Uruguay as of Nay 31, 1970:



-2-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Loan                                                     (US$ Million)
Number    Year    Borrower             Purpose        Amount     Undisbursed
30       1950    U. T. E.             Power            33.0         -
132       1955    U.' T. E.            Power             5.5         -
152       1956    U. T. E.             Power            25.5
245       1959    Repuzblica Oriental  Agriculture       7.0         -
del Uruguay
324       1962    Repiublica Oriental  Roads           18.5         2.7
del Uruguay
407       1965    Repuiblica Oriental  Agriculture      12.7
del Uruguay
Total (less cancellations)          102.2
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                          47.1
Total now outstanding                55.1
Amount sold             3.3.
of' which has been
repaid                 3.2           0.1
Total now held by Bank               550
Total undisbursed                                 2.7
* As of 'L-a 31, 1970 the undisbursed
amount was US$6,ooo which has since
been disbursed.
5.        The road project (Loan 32h) was originally expected to be
completed by the end of 1966. Its very slow implementation has been due
mainly to problems between contractors and consultants.   The Bank is keeping a
close watch on the progress of this project and is working with the Government



-3-
to acce'erate its pace of execution.  The revised work schedule prepared
by the consultants calls for the completion of this project by January
1971.
6.        A US$16 million loan for a power generation and distribution
roJoect is exoected to be submitted to the Eaecutive Directors before
tP'e end of 1970. The Government and the Bank are-also discussing
*urther projects in livestock, power and tourism.
PART II - DESCR1PTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                  Repu'blica Oriental del Uruguay
urpose:                    To assist in financing a credit
program to increase beef cattle
production through loans for ranch
development, importation of pasture
seeds, fertilizers and equipment
and provision of technical services.
Amount:                    The equivalent in-various currencies
of US$6.3 million.
Amortization:              In 12 years including a four-year
period of grace, in semi-annual
installments beginning July-15, 1974
and ending January 15, 1982.
Interest Rate:             7 percent per annum
Commitment Charge:         3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Economic Rate of Return:   21 percent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached-
Ap,praisal RepDrt entitled "Third Livestock Development Project" (PA-38a).



-14-
9.        The proposed project will provide technical and financial
assistance for about one year to continue Uruguay's livestock development
program, begun under Loans 245-UR and 407-UR. Support for such a short
term program is proposed to allow time for the Government to make further
progress in resolving-remaining sector policy issues, especially in the
meat paclcing industry. Basic investments for ranch development plans
(pasture development, fencing and water supplies) and small purchases of
livestock would represent about 79 percent of the estimated cost of the
new project.  Incremental working capital, technical services and contin-
gencies would account for the remaining 21 percent.
10.       About 3,000 ranchers are expected to participate in the project,'
2,000 ranchers within the "Plan Agropecuariot' as defined by the Uruguayan
legislation, under which the size of each borrower's ranch cannot exceed
2,500 hectares, and 1,000 ranchers outside of it, with no limitation as
to size of individual ranches. Ranchers under the "Plan Agropecuario"
will account for about 70 percent of total on-ranch investment.
11i       The total cost of the project is estimated at $13.1 million
equivalent and the loan wxill cover the foreign component, estimated
at $6.3 million, accounting for 48 percent of the total project. The
remaining cost oI the project will be financed as follows: Government
12 percent, participating banlcs 25 percent and ranchers 15 percent.
12.       As in the first and second projects, the "Honorary Livestock
Commission" (an agency of the M1inistry of Agriculture and Livestock)
and a livestock exnert iwill continue to be responsible for the-preparation,
appraisal, approval and supervision of ranch development plans. In
order to enable corumercial banks to act as financial intermediaries in
addition to the Bank of the Republic (ER), which had been the only channel
for making sub-loans under the two-previous loans, a I vestock Fund is to
be establisled in the Central Bank.  This bank took-over the BR's central
banking functions when it was created in March 1967. BR will continue to
chann,l the sub-loans made in accordance with existing "Plan Agropecuario"
ranch size stancdards (see paragraph 10), as well as for the larger size
ranches, over 2,500 hectares. Both commercial banks and the BR will be
the channels for funds disbursed to larger ranchers. The relations between
the Central Ban1k and BR or other commercial banks Twill be subject to the
terms of subsidiary loan agreements to be approved by the Bank.
13       IMachinery, fencing wire and building-materials would be bought
by ranchers through normal commercial channels. Procurement of pasture
seed as well as phosphate for local manufacture into fertilizer would
be by international tender.



1L.       The local currency equivalent of Bank disbursements on account
of directly imported items, such as seeds, fertilizer and agricultural
machinery, will be credited to the Livestock Fund and used to help finance
sub-loans made by participating banks. The Livestock Fund will lend par-
ticipating banks up to 75 percent of the face amount of sub-loans to ran-
chers at an interest rate of 7.5 percent. The amortization period of the
Livestock Fund's loans to participating banks will be the same as that of
the sub-loans made to ranchers.
15.       Credit to project ranchers will be extended only on the basis of
approved ranch development plans. The terms of sub-loans to project ran-
chers will not be less than seven years, including a minimum grace period
of two years.  The interest rate on sub-loans to project ranchers will be
11 percent.
16.       The principal of all sub-loans to ranchers will be adjusted in
accordance with an index based on ranch-gate prices of cattle and wool.
Readjustment will be 100 percent for loans to borrowqers with ranches in
excess of 500 hectares; 75 percent for borrowers wvith ranches in excess
of 300 hectares and 50 percent for borrowers with ranches of smaller size.
Assuming that inflation continues at the current annual rate of 15 percent,
these arrangements would ensure a positive rate of interest on the larger
loans with a negative rate on the smallest. Since, however, most of the
funds will go to the larger ranchers the average rate earned in real terms
would be about 8.5 percent. The Government would carry the exchange risk.
17.       Any sums accruing temporarily to the Livestock Fund in excess of
service payments to the Bank and administrative costs, will be relent to
project ranchers to assist them in meeting their working capital require-
ments.
18.       During negotiations, assurances were received that the Govern-
ment would take all steps necessary to (a) improve its meat inspection
service to the point where it can meet the hygiene requirements of important
foreign markets; (b) define the future role and scope of the Government-
ow~med or controlled meat processing plants, including the future ownership
(wholly Government owned, mixed participation or cooperative) and manage-
ment of those plants; (c) review and give advise on the technical, finan-
cial and economic soundness of the privately owned meat processing plants'
modernization, expansion and improvement programs; and (d) reorganize the
Pleat Institute and the Commission for Local Meat Supply into a single entity.
To assist the Government in carrying out these assurances, provision has
been made in the project for the employment of appropriatue consultant
services.
19.       With respect to the livestock producers' investment incentives,
the Government has agreed during negotiations to pursue policies in such
a manner that efficient livestock producers will be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to secure a financial rate of return on new on-ranch investment
of at least 15 percent under normal conditions of production.



-6-
20.       The ecr-omic r~.te of return for the project is estimated at 21
percent.  The principal direct benefit resulting from the project will be
increased beef production. The annual increase of production from the ccm-
pleted project would amount to about 7,000 metric tons of beef. The gross
value of this production, most of which will be exported, will total some
US.T3.5 million per year at prices paid to the producer.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMI'ENTS AIM AUTHORITY
21.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Repu6blica Oriental del
Uruguay and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section h(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement and the draft Resol-
ution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
22.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms substantially to the pattern
of agreements for livestock development projects. Particular attention is
called to the following features:
(i)  the financial structure of the credit program included
in the Project (paras. (a), (b), (c), (e) and (h) of
Section 5.02 of the L. an Agreement;
(ii)  the formulae for adjustment of amounts lent under the said
credit program (Section 5.02(c) (v) of the Loan Agreement
and paragraph C.2 of Schedule 5 thereto);
(iii)  the Borrower's undertaking in respect of ranchers' incen-
tives (Section v5.06 of the Loan Agreement).
PART V - THE ECONOnA
23.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Pros-
pects of Uruguay" (VH-198a), dated March 24, 1970, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 24, 1970. The report singles out as the two
most important intermediate goals of an effective stabilization and develop--
ment program the following: (a) an increase in the exportable surplus of
livestock products; and (b) an increase in the savings capacity of the
public sector. The Government has expressed its intention to act along
these lines and in general has already taken appropriate steps, as indicated
in the economic and appraisal reports. Specifically, gasoline taxes have
been increased and other taxes raised, which should permit the Government
to achieve a modest current account surplus. The rates charged by public
utilities have been increased sharply, thus restoring the ability of some
of these enterprises to generate a sizable volume of savings. W.Jith respect
to the livestock sector, investment incentives have been restored to rela-
tively satisfactory levels through the reduction of export taxes on beef
and wool, a substantial increase in the domestic consumer prices for meat
and the abolition of the monopoly of the state-owned or controlled meat
packing plants in supplying the IMontevideo market.



-7-
24.       Since the economic report was wTritten, the Uruguayan Govern-
ment has entered into a first credit tranche standby agreemrent with the
IMF.  The IHF agreement contains a number of macroeconomic targets to be
achieved by the Government in 1970, including a net foreign exchange re-
serve test. I intend to follow closely the Government's action in meeting
these targets.
25.       Events during the first quarter of 1970 point to a gradually
improving economic situation. The fiscal deficit is being maintained at
budgeted levels; the rise in the cost of living has been relatively mod-
erate (5.7 percent) despite the sizable increases in gasoline prices and
the rates charged by public utilities noted above, and the country's foreign
exchange reserve position continues to improve, bolstered by a rise in the
overseas market price for Uruguayan beef.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE W4ITH THIE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PAPT VII - RECOM1'IENDATION
27.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
WTashington, D.C.
June 11, 1970



