*J  6qJL                                                                                 Z 5 Sq- ZL
FILE COPY                        RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-38a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URUGUAY
June 11, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                           -   Uruguay Peso 250
Uruguay Peso 1                 -   US$ 0.004
Uruguay Peso 1,000,000         =   US$ 4, 000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)                             = 2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                  =  1 metric ton  - 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                 = 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                            =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)            =  10,000 m2      = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)  = 100 ha          = 0.39 square mile
1 liter (1)                                 = 0.26 gallon
ABBREVIATIONIS
BR      -  Bank of the Republic
SFSCA   - Workers Packing Plant Cooperative
FUND    - Livestock Fund in Central Bank
INAC    -  National Meat Institute
PLAN    -  Comision Honoraria del Plan Agropecuario,
an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock



URUGUAY
THIRD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ANDCONCLU SIONS . .........** I**I*. ..II.   I .   ..... .
I.    INTRODUCTION . . .o. ... . . . . . . . . . ... . .   . . .1
II.   BACKGROUND I . I I I . . . . ... .I . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A. Livestock in Relation to the Economy .    ........    1
Production Patterns     . ... .. .. ... ..  .   1
Economic Importance  . . I I . .      . . . . . .  2
B.  Agricultural Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
C. Policies and Programs for Livestock Development. . ..
III.  REVIEW OF THE FIRST TWO LIVESTOCK PROJECTS . . . . . . . .  7
IV.   THE THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. . . . . . . . . .  9
A.  Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
B.  Detailed Features. .. . .I. .. .. . .I . . . . .  .0    9
New Borrowers. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 .   10
Current Borrowers. . . . . . . .0. . . .a. .. .    11
Technical Services . . . . . . .  .          . 0 . . .  0 0 1I
C.  Cost Estimates .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
D. Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
E.  Procurement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
F.  Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
G.   Auditing  ...a.................oo  oa  oo  oo       15
H.  Organization and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
I. Lending Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I. . .   17
V.    PRICES, MARKETS AND RANCHER BENEFITSI .      ..     . .. .. .   19
A. Prices . .*. . o. ooo0.    .    0       *I   19
B. Markets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
C. Rancher Benefits and Revenue Generation. . . . . . . . 21
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . 22
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . .  23
This Report, based on the findings of missions that visited Uruguay in May
and October 1969, was pr-epared mainly by Messrs. D.B. Argyle and A. Schumacher.
IBRD consultants C. Percival, R. Phillips, H. van der Heijden and A. Zeini
also contributed substantially to the Report, especially in the preparation
of Annex 1 on policies and programs.



2
ANNEXES
1.  Development of the Livestock Industry:  Policies and Programs
Table  1 - Size of Ranch Holdings
Table  2 - Gross Domestic Product - Current Factor Cost
Table  3 - Production, Consumption and Exports of Beef
Table  4 - Development of Livestock Exports
Table  5 - Sectoral Incidence of Taxation
Table  6 - Breakdown of Export Price of Beef
Table  7 - Breakdown of Export Prices of Greasy Wool (1968 and 1969)
Table  8 - Phosphate, Consumption and Government Subsidy Payments
Table  9 - Key Indices
Table 10 - Ownership and Slaughter Patterns of the Meat Plants
Table 11 - Needs for Upgrading and Expanding Facilities
Table 12 - Meat Inspectors
Appendix  1 - Production from Improved Pastures, 1961-1975
Appendix  2 - Selected Agricultural Statistics, 1966
Appendix  3 - Production, Consumption and Exports of Beef, 1951-1968
Appendix  h - Value of Exports, 1956-1968
Appendix  5 - Incdcence and Composition of Taxation, Livestock
Seckor, 1968
Appendix  6   Comparative Breakdown of Agricultural Machinery
Prices May 1969; Four Different Importing Regimes
Appendix  7 - Comparative Breakdown of Prices of Agricultural
Machinery Parts, May 1969; Imported Under Three
Different Surcharge Systems
Appendix  8 - Fertilizer, Consumption and Subsidies 1961-1969
Appendix  9 - Breakdown of Hyperphosphate Price, 1969
Appendix 10 - Relative Composition of Consumer Expenditures, 1962
Appendix 11 - Evolution of Costs of Selected Inputs, 1962-1969
Appendix 12 - Evolution of Farm Output Value and Farm Prices, 1962-1969
Appendix 13 - General Farmn Input/Output Price Relationships, 1962-1969
Appendix 14 - Lncdex Consumer Beef Prices, Prices of Farm Outputs
and Cross Indexes
Appendix 15 - Prices and Price Indexes of Beef, Poultry and Fish,
1962-1969
Appendix 16 - Frigorificos:  Size of Operation, Plant Condition and
Purchases
Appendix 17 - Frigoriricos:  Products Marketed, Inspection Personnel
and EXport Data
Appendix 18 - Frigorificos: Needs for Training Market Information,
Credit Transport and Future Operations
Appendix 19 - Volume and Value of Beef Export.
2. Plan Agropecuario, Progress Under Loans 245-UR and 4074UR and Duties,
Responsibilities and Authorities of the Technical Director.
Table 1 - Loans Approved and Paid Out and Withdrawals from IBRD Accounts
Table 2 - Plan Agropecuario, Sources  and Application of Funds -
1961-1968 - 245-UR



Table 3 - Plan Agropecuario, Sources and Application of Funds -
1966-1968 - 407-UR
Table 4 - Plan Agropecuario, Details of Account - Sundry Debtors:
December 31, 1968
Figure 1 - Plan Agropecuario Proposed Organization Chart
3. The Banking System
Table 1 - The Bank of the Republic (BR) Assets, Loan Portfolio,
Profits and Salaries, 1964-1968
Figure 1 - Bank of the Republic Organization Chart
4. Indexing of Project Subloans
Schedule I - Loan Agreement signed by Plan Borrowers from
January 1, 1969
5. Development Projections:
1,000-ha Ranch - New Borrowers
Table 1 - On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Table 2 - Beef Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Sheep Flock Development Projections - Stable Flock
Table 4 - Projection of Sales and. Operating Expenses
Table 5 - Financial Projection
5004ha Ranch - Current Borrowxers
Table 6 - On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Table 7 - Beef Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table 8 - Sheep Flock Development Projections - Stable Flock
Table 9 - Projection of Sales anid Operating Expenses
Table 10- Financial Projection
6.1 Project Investments
7. Projected Sources  and Application of Funds
Taole 1 - Central Bank
Table 2 - Participating Banks
8. Financial Rate of Return Calculations
9. Econor-ic Rate of Return



- 4 -
MAPS
1.     General Location of Main Farm Types
2.     Frigorifico Location



URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Project, for which a loan of US$6.3 million is proposed,
would be the Third Livestock Development Project financed by the IBRD in
Uruguay and would continue technical and financial support to Uruguay's
national program of livestock development. The First Loan of US$7 million
(245-UR) was made in 1959, the Second of US$12.7 million (407-UR) in 1965.
ii.       Despite the technical success achieved under the first two loans,
beef and wool production and export targets were not realized until 1968.
Inflation, discriminatory policies and subsequent credit squeezes reduced
the profitability of livestock production and levels of investment incen-
tives to ranchers. This situation was further aggravated when Uruguay
failed to meet tightening international meat inspection and hygiene control
standards required by the major meat importing countries. The result was
a total embargo in mid-1969 on imports of Uruguayan meat by the United
Kingdom and the United States, pending improvements in Uruguay's meat in-
spection service and hygienic conditions in meat processing plants. Despite
these bans Uruguay exported more than 100,000 tons of beef in 1968 and 1969,
mainly to countries in the Mediterranean basin. This was the first time
since World War II that Uruguay exported more than 100,000 tons for 2
successive years.
iiI.      In mid-1969, the Government, with considerable political courage,
began to take steps to restore producer incentives and to encourage meat
packers to export further quantities of beef. As a result, ranch-gate
protucer prices for cattle have now risen 30%, the long-existing monopoly
uf the Government-owned meat packing plants in the Montevideo market has
been eliminated and the damaging export taxes on beef have been reduced by
5C%. The export taxes on wool have also been reduced from 28% to 22%.
Internal consumer prices of beef have been raised an average of 15% and
action has been taken to reduce the artificially high slaughter charges
by 20%. There has also been substantial progress in efforts to restructure
the meat inspection service: inspectors are being trained and the director's
tnd inspectors' salaries are being paid by the Government instead of by the
packing aouses. Additionally, a small inter-ministerial group, with the
help of internationally recruited meat processing specialists, has prepared
Plan of Action to modernize meat packing plants. Finally, Government
action has been completed to remove all import taxes on agricultural
machinery and meat processing equipment. Together, these measures should
provide adequate incentives for increasing primary production and simul-
taneously help Uruguay to increase its exports of beef and wool.
iv.       In light of these substantive improvements, additional IBRD fi-
nancial and technical assistance to the livestock sector is warranted. With



- ii -
the support of the proposed Project, the Government would intensify its
efforts to restructure the vital livestock industry. The Project would
contribute to these efforts by providing credit to ranchers and technical
services to both ranchers and meat processors. Project funds would be
channeled through a Livestock Fund to be administered by the Central Bank.
v.        All development loans to Project ranchers would be based on
technically sound and financially viable ranch development plans. Competent
technicians, trained under the auspices of the Plan Agropecuario, would
assist ranchers in preparing these plans. Overall Project administration
would continue to be handled by the Plan Agropecuario.
vi.       The economic rate of return on the investment in this Project
is estimated at 21%. The financial rate of return to participating ranchers
varies from 22% to 23%, depending on the type of ranch. These financial
rates of return are now sufficient to provide ranchers with an adequate in-
centive to borrow development funds under the Project and repay the loans,
which are indexed to cover future inflation. At full development, after 7
years, the investments made under this Project are likely to result in an
incremental beef production of 7,000 m tons, valued at US$3.5 million annual-
ly on the export market.
vii.      Total Project cost is estimated at US$13.1 million.  The Proposed
Loan of US$6.3 million would finance the estimated foreign exchange component.
The Project is technically sound and financially and economically viable and
suitable for a loan of US$6.3 million. The Borrower would be the Govern-
ment of Uruguay, which would bear the foreign exchange risk. The loan term
would be 12 years, including a 4-year grace period.



URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Uruguay has applied for a Third Loan from the
IBRD to support its national program of livestock development. The First
Loan of US$7 million (245-UR) was made in 1959, the second of US$12.7
million (407-UR) in 1965. The history of IBRD livestock activities in
Uruguay, however, goes back to 1950, when a joint FAO/IBRD mission, led by
Sir Maurice Hutton, advised the Government to start a pilot plan to test
the application of new pasture improvement techniques and evaluate the
yields of these trials. This experiment, carried out over 120,000 ha on a
number of conmercial ranches, was successful and laid the foundation for
subsequent IBRD livestock lending.
1.02      An IBRD mission visited Uruguay in May/June 1969 to evaluate the
impact of the earlier two Loans and to appraise the Third Loan application
on the basis of a comprehensive review of the livestock sector. It gave
special attention to Government policies and to the processing and marketing
of beef and wool. (Annex 1 discusses these policies and programs in detail.)
A follow-up mission in October 1969 found that Government had taken a series
of politically difficult policy steps to improve investment incentives to
producers and to encourage additional exports of meat and wool. Further
discussions regarding additional Government action were held in Washington
in November 1969 with officials of the Ministry of Finance and again in
Uruguay in late January and early February 1970.
1.03      On the basis of recent policy improvements, a Third Livestock Loan
of US$6.3 million is proposed. This Loan would be an interim measure and
would give the Government time to resolve remaining livestock sector policy
issues. It would also provide the necessary continuity while the preparation
of a fourth project to improve another 500,000 ha of native pasture land is
completed.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of the May/June 1969 mission,
comprising Messrs. Schumacher and Argyle (IBRD) and Messrs. Percival, Phillips,
van der fAeijden and Zeini (consultants). Mr. Schumacher participated in all
follow-up livestock sector policy discussions, and, assisted by Mr. Argyle,
carried the principal responsibility for the preparation of the report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Livestock in Relation to the Economy
Production Patterns
2.01      Uruguay, with an area of 17 million ha, has a generally undulating
topography with virtually no wasteland. Rainfall variations significantly



- 2 -
affect livestock production, since there is extensive grazing on unimproved
pastures. Uruguay's pastures support 7.5 million beef cattle, mainly Hereford;
500,000 dairy cattle, predominantly Friesian; and a sheep flock of 23 million,
principally Corriedale. Overall carrying capacity averages one cow and
three sheep per 2 ha. As the country can no longer bring large areas of
new land into production, increased livestock output must come from in-
creasing stocking rates and production per animal.
Economic Importance
2.02      The livestock industry is the mainstay of the economy.  It, with
its ancillary industries, generates about 30% of the national income and
provides employment for about 10% of the working population. Exports of
beef and wool and their by-products account for about 85% of Uruguay's
export earnings.
2.03      It is difficult to draw definite conclusions on trends in pro-
duction, consumption and exports from available data because of rainfall
variations and unofficial trade with Brazil. Beef and wool production
has remained generally steady since the early 1950's although consumption
of beef has declined slightly in recent years, mainly because of the im-
position of beefless days in 1966, 1967 and beefless months in 1969. How-
ever, at roughly 67 kg per person per year, Uruguay has one of the highest
levels of beef consumption in the world.
2.04      Despite the lack of any noticeable increase in beef exports until
1968, Uruguay remained an important international supplier of beef and wool.
Beef exports amounted to about 105,000 tons in 1968 and 122,000 tons in
1969, valued at about US$56 million and US$70 million, respectively. This
was the first time since World War II that Uruguay exported more than
100,000 tons for two successive years. These beef export levels were
achieved despite the United Kingdom and United States embargoes on
Uruguay meat, which bans are still in effect. Government is now taking
the necessary actions to get them removed. Wool exports averaged about
65,000 tons annually in 1968 and 1969, worth about US$78 million,
while exports of hides and skins averaged US$15 million for these 2
years.
B.    ricultural Services
2.05      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for the
technical development of the livestock sub-sector. Under its general
auspices, the Honorary Commission for the Plan Agropecuario (Plan), or-
ganized in 1959, is specifically charged with providing technical services
directly to cattle and sheep ranchers (Annex 2 gives further details).
2.06      Agricultural research is performed at the National Agricultural
Research Center (La Estanzuela) where more than 30 young research workers
are now employed. It is equipped to conduct applied research on cereals



and pastures, fertilizer usage and livestock. Between 1964 and 1969,
considerable financial and staffing assistance were provided to La Estanzuela
by international and regional organizations. For several years a number of
UNDP/FAO specialists were in residence, laying the basis and direction of
research. Plan staff have assisted the Research Center in programs of
certification and production of legume, grass and forage seeds.
2.07      Veterinary research is carried on in the Rubino laboratories
near Montevideo and more laboratories have been planned within the concept
of a well-coordinated Agricultural Service Center. Four laboratories, to
be located in rural areas, are also proposed. Because of the importance
of livestock to the Uruguayan economy, such facilities are essential in
the development of a veterinary diagnostic service. Foot and mouth disease
(FMD) has been endemic in Uruguay for many years. To help control this
disease, the Inter-American Development Bank has lent US$1.5 million to the
Government to assist in its program. It is difficult to assess actual
losses, mostly concerned with market restrictions on beef. However, since
1955, when commercial FMD vaccine was first produced locally, the number
and severity of outbreaks have declined. Obligatory vaccination of cattle
started in August 1968 in the area adjoining Brazil and has since been
extended over the entire country. This program is aimed not only at keep-
ing losses from FMD to a minimum but also at retaining markets in many
European countries.
2.08      Inadequate management and nutrition rather than disease, however,
are the major obstacles to attaining higher levels of livestock production.
In spring and autumn, feed supplies are plentiful but in summer and winter
the quantity and quality of such supplies are often low. Because most
ranchers do little to overcome these seasonal shortages, calving and lamb-
ing Dercentages are low and mortality rates high. Considering the high
gerietic quality of stock (para 2.01), animal output performance is still
below potentials.
2.09      During the 1965-68 period of intensive inflation in Uruguay, it
was difficult to maintain, much less develop, a sound agricultural credit
system., Private commercial banks severely restricted medium- and long-
tvrm credit for all purposes, especially development lending. To protect
the -value of their deposits and capital, they increased interest rates on
short-term loans during one period to 50% per year. The Government-owned
Bani oi- the Republic (BR), the largest supplier of short-term and medium-
.erm development loans to the livestock sector, acted much more slowly and,
as a consequence, suffered an erosion of lending resources and capital.
2.1u      In 1967 a Central Bank was formed, independent of BR, which had
previously performed central banking functions in addition to its regular
commercial and development lending activities (Annex 3). The dissociation
of the Central Bank from BR, plus a severe credit squeeze imposed by the
Government to control inflation, led to a significant drop in the overall
level of credit expansion. This action, together with other fiscal and
monetary measures, has helped to achieve a period of relative price stability
(10% to 15% inflation on an annual basis) since mid-1968. The stabilization



- 4 -
program, however, created significant problems for the livestock industry.
The principal difficulty was that the BR, within the credit expansion
ceiling imposed by the Central Bank, cut off all short-term credit to the
livestock sector from January 1968 to mid-1969. Working capital from the
private commercial banks (42 now exist in Uruguay, foreign and local) was
prohibitively expensive at 2% to 3% per month for both producers and meat
processors, especially in view of the deteriorating cost-price relation-
ships that handicapped the livestock sector between 1965 and mid-1969.
C. Policies and Programs for Livestock Development
2.11      The rapid inflationary developments of the 1960's, when the
consumer price index rose 23-fold in the 1962-1968 period, produced many
distortions in Uruguay's price structure and seriously affected the live-
stock sector. First, general consumer prices rose 29% faster than ranch-
gate output prices, thus eroding the purchasing power of livestock output.
At the same time, the index of livestock costs increased 37% faster than
did the index of livestock prices. This reduced the financial rate of
return to ranchers on new improvement investments to less than 8% in real
terms as of May 1969 1/, a level substantially below the cost of money
(11%) and yields on alternative investments. The result was an undermining
of the ranchers' willingness to invest, except in those cases where they
could obtain development loans that were not indexed to the prices of beef
and wool. With inflation over 100% in 1967, these non-indexed loans be-
came more nearly "hard grants."
2.12      Political developments in Uruguay have also adversely affected
the livestock sector. A taxation system was introduced that effectively
redistributed income from the livestock producer to the urban consumer.
With non-agricultural production taxed at 12%, the tax burden on the live-
stock sector was nearly triple that in 1968 (34%). Moreover, the tax
system discouraged increased production and exports of beef and wool by
taxing production and exports rather than income. Export taxes on wool
absorbed roughly 28% of the export price in May 1969 and those on beef
averaged some 15% of the export price.  The result was that more beef was
put on the domestic market, which depressed internal prices and encouraged
beef consumption. The export taxes, combined with numerous others, drove
the final ranch-gate producers' cattle price to a level that was one of
the lowest in the world (US$130 per ton liveweight, as compared to US$160
in Argentina, US$230 in Australia and US$680 in the European Common
Market).
2.13      Other policies also discouraged development of primary production
and exports of beef and wool. High tariffs on agricultural machinery and
1/   Internal rate of return (financial) on new investment in a 1,000-ha
ranch calculated on May 1969 inputs cost and output values.



poorly timed fertilizer subsidies discouraged ranchers from undertaking
pasture improvement and needed forage conservation. Finally, the inefficient
operation of the processing industries, including the maintenance of the
monopoly of the publicly-owned and grossly inefficient Frigorifico Nacional
(Frigonal), raised processing costs to over US$100 per ton of beef carcass
weight compared to, for example, US$30 in Argentina.
2.14      Thus, the positive technical achievements in pasture improvements
and increased carrying capacity under Loans 245-UR and 407-UR (para 3.03)
were offset by adverse Government policies. Without their modification,
further financial support for investments in primary production would have
been largely meaningless. Moreover, livestock development objectives
needed to move beyond the production phases and include the processing
and marketing industry. Remedial Government action was required in two
categories before the IBRD could continue financial support of the live-
stock development program:
a.   investment incentives to livestock producers had to
be restored; and
b.   the marketing and meat packing industry had to be
modernized to improve operations and the meat
inspection service had to be restored to inter-
national standards.
2.15      In the last 5 months of 1969, the Government took strong action
to meet the above requirements. The following steps were aimed mainly at
improving producers' investment incentives:
a.   internal consumer prices for beef were raised 15% on
the average, helping to reduce domestic consumption
and make additional beef available for export (para 2.04);
b.   beef export taxes were changed from an ad valorem tax of
15% to a flat rate of US$40 per ton of beef exported, an
average equivalent to 8% ad valorem, to induce meat packers
to export higher quality, more processed cuts of beef;
c.   wool export taxes were reduced from 28% to 22% to
encourage wool exports;
d.   import duties and surcharges on farm machinery were
removed; and
e.   ranch-gate price controls on beef cattle were abolished.
2.16      To stimulate the meat packing industry, the following measures
were taken:



- 6 -
a.   the 40-year-old Frigonal monopoly over the Montevideo
market was removed. All meat packing plants can now
supply this domestic market (this monopoly had been
primarily responsible for the excessive slaughtering
charges in the meat packing industry and had fostered
inefficient operations in the Frigonal itself);
b.   funds were designated by Government to cover the
transfer or retirement of 450 of Frigonal's more
than 1,000 administrative personnel and to permit
a substantial reduction in the blue collar work
force there and at the workers' packing plant
cooperative (EFSCA); the Board of Directors of
EFSCA was also taken over by Government; and
the most inefficient of its three plants, Artigas,
closed;
d.   a full-time director for the meat inspection service
is being recruited (para 2.20); funds were also
allocated in the 1970 budget to cover the meat
inspectors' salaries, rather than continue to have
them paid by the meat packers directly;
e.   training programs for meat inspectors, with United
Kingdom assistance, were started;
f.   import duties and surcharges on packing house equipment
were removed; and
g.   a national Plan of Action to modernize the meat packing
industry was prepared with the assistance of internationally
recruited consultants.
2.17      As a result, ranch-gate producer prices for beef cattle have
risen 30%. If maintained, these new price levels would ensure a reasonably
attractive rate of return on new ranch investments.
2.18      The actions listed indicate the Government's desire to encourage
increased livestock production for export as a key element of restoring the
real growth of Uruguay's economy. Uruguay could double beef exports by
1985. To achieve this target, however, a number of further actions are
required to consolidate recent livestock producer gains and to lay a sound
marketing structure for future exports. These are discussed in the follow-
ing paragraphs.
2.19      To ensure continued investment for expansion of livestock pro-
duction, Government must maintain producer prices at levels that provide
satisfactory financial rates of return on new ranch investments. Rancher
cost-price relationships should also be restored to a normal commercial
basis as soon as it can be done with the minimum use of artificial price



- 7 -
supports or controls and input subsidies. To this end, subsidies on
phosphate fertilizer, currently at 33% of the ranch-gate price, would
need to be gradually reduced. In the meantime, annual announcement of
the levels of such subsidies and their prompt payment by Government would
be necessary. In support of these measures, the Central Bank must ensure
that adequate short-term credit is available to livestock producers and
processors.
2.20      Modernization of the meat packing industry is one of the most
urgent matters facing the Government. Uruguay has engaged international
meat processing and hygiene control specialists to advise the Ministers
of Industry and Agriculture and Livestock in formulating a Plan of Action,
which has now been completed. A high-priority effort recommended in this
Plan of Action is bringing the meat inspection service up to international
standards (para 2.16). An important step toward this goal would be the
appointment of a highly qualified full-time director of the service (Annex 1,
para 3.22). The Plan of Action also includes substantive recommendations
to Government on the conversion of Uruguay's Meat Institute (INAC) into a
regularly financed meat marketing advisory authority with full-time staff
(Annex 1, pars 3.28).
III. REVIEW OF THE FIRST TWO LIVESTOCK PROJECTS
3.01      By the early 1950's, Uruguay's national livestock industry,
dependent on native grasslands, had already reached a relatively high level
under the "range management" type of production. While sub-division of
land, water supplies, grazing and stock management were to high standard,
production was static because full exploitation of unimproved grasslands
had been reached. The overall ecological conditions in Uruguay, however,
indicated that modern-type improved pastures could be grown.
3.02      The first two projects were designed to introduce modern-type
legumes (clovers) and grasses as well as the cultural practices that had
proved successful in countries of similar soil and climate. The legumes
and grasses selected were those adapted to the three main livestock regions
of Uruguay (Map 1). The Australian sod-seeder technique and the New Zealand
method of aerial over-sowing were used to get these started in native swards
without :ultivation and, therefore, at low cost.  Better lands were cultiv-
ated and resown.
3.03      Native grasslands had almost no legumes and suffered from nitrogen
shortages. The introduction of legumes was therefore necessary to build up
the soJi to support the growth of the improved grass species to be introduced.
Phosphate to stimulate legume growth was used concurrently with inoculation
of seeds with suitable strains of rhizobia (the nitrogen-fixing organisms).
In most cases, the effects were impressive. Farms with improved pastures
showed a three-fold increase in animal production over those farms with un-
improved pastures. Such improvements are likely to be permanent, given
continual maintenance with phosphates and good pasture management.



3.04      A considerable amount of IBRD-supported experimentation helped
to solve technical problems encountered in establishing improved legume-
based pastures. For example, phosphate rather than lime was shown to be
the key factor. Also, initial attempts to establish clover failed because
there were no suitable strains of rhizobia (para 3.03). The feasibility
of aerial over-sowing of land that could not be cultivated was easily
established after investigation. In spite of these successful experiments,
the start of commercial grassland improvement was slow because farmers
had to be convinced first that the new methods would be profitable.
3.05      The First Loan (245-UR), in 1959, was essentially used to demon-
strate methods of pasture improvement on a large sample of farms. The
Second Loan (407-UR), in 1965, built upon the experience gained under
245-UR and covered a larger number of ranches (para 3.08).
3.06      Under the Plan Agropecuario, ranchers are assisted in preparing
ranch plans and supervised in their execution.  Recommendations for
individual loans are also made by Plan technicians to the lender (BR),
which provides the necessary financing to ranchers, subject to consideration
of their creditworthiness and its own regulations. The BR is also responsible
for loan disbursement and collection. In 1969, subloans under the Plan were
indexed for the first time (Annex 4). Necessary veterinary services are made
available to Plan borrowers by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
3.07      IBRD funds were used mainly for direct imports of fertilizers,
seed and machinery. This was done because private importers could not fi-
nance the quantity of materials required, and a large reduction on import
taxes was allowed on goods purchased through the Plan. Upon payment by the
IBRD to foreign supplier of eligible goods, the equivalent in pesos was
credited to the Livestock Fund in the BR and was used for ranch loans. To
encourage more pasture improvement, provision was made to import seed and
fertilizer for ranchers outside the Project who could pay cash. Equivalent
peso funds from these imports were also added to the Fund.
3.08      The Plan has now successfully established its pasture improvement
program. Achievements under the first two projects are detailed in Annex 2.
Plans have been executed on about 6,100 supervised farms, 1,400 under the
First Loan and 45700 under the Second, distributed throughout the country.
By the end of 1968, an estimated 430,000 ha of pasture had been improved.
An additional 140,000 ha have been established from funds disbursed in 1969.
Ranchers outside the Project iho were supplied seed and fertilizer on a
cash basis developed another 200,000 ha (pars 3.07). Under the First Project,
farm size averaged 600-ha, compared to the 1,000-ha units envisaged. During
the Second Project, ranch size dropped to about 500 ha, due to the strict
interpretation by BR of ceiling regulations on capital resources of eligible
Project ranchers. The average area of Improved pasture per ranch is now
about 100 ha.



- 9 -
3.09      Many of the ranchers who bought seed and fertilizer for cash have
consulted Plan technicians in preparing and carrying out their ranch improve-
ment programs. Thus, the demonstration impact of the Project has been
significant. However, the interest of such ranchers in participating on a
cash basis declined considerably in recent years as investment incentives
deteriorated (para 2.11). Overall, the total acreage of pasture improvement
has exceeded original targets set in 1959 by about 35,000 ha. The two Pro-
jects have been in progress long enough to provide a fair record of the actual
investment and operating costs. A sample survey of 50 representative
properties indicates that average per hectare productivity has increased by
about 75% by sowing 30% of the area to improved pasture. Given sound manage-
ment, production on most ranches can be tripled with full pasture improvement
and fodder conservation (para 3.03). Expenditures on fencing, water supplies
and machinery have been approximately in proportion with the amounts fore-
cast.
IV. THE THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The Project would provide technical and financial support for
1 year to continue the national livestock development program of Uruguay,
begun under Loans 245-UR and 407-UR. Support for such a short-term program
is proposed to allow time for Government to resolve remaining sector policy
issues especially in the meat packing industry and to restore the ranchers'
e:nfidence sufficiently to encourage them to undertake substantial additional
investments. The Project would finance investments for ranch improvements
to increase the carrying capacity of the land and the production of beef and
wool. Increased beef production would be sought by directed credit and
Project-related technical services. Ranch development plans would be drawn
up for each participating ranch and ranchers would be encouraged to continue
the proven pasture Improvement program.
4.02      The Project would also finance equipment and machinery to grow,
harvest, clean and certify quality legume and grass seed. Technical and
corwultant services would be provided (paras 4.11 and 4.12).
B. Detailed Features
4.03      The Third Project would embrace all livestock areas of Uruguay.
However, in view of the country's already high levels of milk consumption
and its mounting butter inventory, as well as the world wide surplus of
dairy products, support of the dairy sub-sector is not proposed. No direct
assistance to the poultry and pork industries is suggested at the present
time, although it may be considered in a subsequent project after further
study by the Plan staff.



- 10 -
4.04      An additional 200,000 ha of pasture would be improved under the
Third Project. Various techniques of pasture establishment and improvement
tested under previous loans would be used in the different regions, depend-
ing upon soils and topography (paras 3.02 and 3.03). Provision would also
be made for further fencing, dips, yards and watering facilities, which are
essential to a balanced pasture and livestock program.
4.05      Initially, the additional feed provided by the improved pastures
would be used mainly for raising the nutritional level of existing stock,
which have generally a high genetic potential (para 2.01). Given the low re-
productive and fattening efficiencies of current livestock on natural
pasture, it would be more profitable to the economy to increase the calving
rates from the rancher's existing breeding herd and to shorten the fatten-
ing period than to feed newly purchased breeding heifers. Therefore, there
is no allowance for financing heifers or breeding cows under the participat-
ing banks development loans to ranchers, and assurances have been obtained
during negotiations to this effect. However, as pasture development in-
creases ranch carrying capacities, ranchers in the eastern and western
livestock regions are likely to purchase and fatten more feeder steers, and
short-term financing for this purpose would be provided (para. 4.17).
New Borrowers
4.06      Funds from this Project would finance the first stage (US$4,060)
of a new borrower's ranch development plan in which 10% of the ranch's pasture
area would be improved. Pasture improvement, consisting mainly of fertili-
zer and seed (Annex 5, Table 1), represents about 80% of total ranch improve-
ment expenditures, with the balance in fencing, water supplies and livestock.
4.07      With higher ranch-gate cattle prices (para 2.17), about 1,000
ranchers who did not previously borrow under Plan auspices for ranch devel-
opment would now find such investment profitable. Most of these new bor-
rowers would be somewhat larger (estimated to average 1,000 ha) than those
involved under the first two Projects (para 3.08). The size of individual
ranches eligible to borrow under the Plan has been Increased to 2,500 ha.
In addition to providing financial support to ranchers in this category,
the Proposed Loan would also provide funds to enable ranchers owning or
renting holdings in excess of 2,500 ha to receive development loans for
supervised ranch improvements. This new policy, to be implemented under
the Third Project, would ensure that these larger commercial ranchers would
have access to medium- and long-term ranch development finance.
4.08      Improvements in future years would need to be financed separately.
This is appropriate in view of the need to retain the ranchers' confidence
in the revised policies of Government toward the livestock sector. While
ranch plans would be prepared to cover the full program, ranchers would
commit themselves for a loan only for the first year. Provided adequate
incentives are maintained, ranchers are then likely to continue pasture
development.



- 11 -
4.09      Ranch plans would be assessed by Plan technicians, who would
recommend loans to participating banks on the basis of their being eco-
nomically and technically justifiable. Annex 5, Tables 1-5, gives further
details on herd development projections, investment costs and cash flow
estimates for these ranchers.
Current Borrowers
4.10      The proposed Project would also provide funds for additional
pasture improvement on approximately 2,000 of the 6,100 ranches that were
developed under the first two loans. Average cost of further development
would be Ur$628,000 per ranch (US$2,500 equivalent). The investment would
be disbursed in the same proportions as those for new borrowers (para
4.07). Annex 5, Tables 6-10, gives further detail on the herd development
projection, investment costs and cash flow estimates.
Technical Services
4.11      The Project would also provide for a qualified Technical Director
and short-term consultants for the Plan (para 4.21) as well as for inter-
national meat processing and hygiene control consultants. Training of local
Plan technicians, especially in ranch budgeting and record keeping, would
also be provided for under the Project. Provision has been made in the
project for the employment of such consultant services to assist the Govern-
ment in (a) improving its meat inspection service to the point where it can
meet the hygiene requirements of important international markets; (b)
defining the future role and scope of the Government-owned or controlled
meat processing plants, including the future ownership (wholly Government
owned, mixed participation or cooperative) and management of those plants;
(c) reviewing and giving advice on the technical, financial and economic
soundness of the privately-owned meat processing plants' modernization,
expansion and improvement programs; and (d) reorganizing the Meat Institute
and the Commission for Local Meat Supply into a single entity.  Finally,
four-wheel-drive vehicles for Plan technical staff and for the supervisors
and senior veterinarians of the important meat inspection service (Annex 1,
para 3.24) are included in the Project.
4.12      The Project would also provide financial and technical support
for continuation of local pasture seed production, involving such work as
pasture seed certification and production and processing of pedigree seed.
Preliminary plans for the organization of a producer-owned seed processing
cooperative, Calprose, have been prepared by the Plan. These are satis-
f-ct "ry. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that final
decailed plans for the development program of the cooperative would be
sent to the IBRD for approval no later than 4 months from the signing of
the Proposed Loan.



- 12 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.13      The total investment proposed tnder the Project, equivalent to
US$13.1 million, is detailed in Annex 6 and summarized below by major
investment categories. Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing
in Uruguay. A contingency provision is included to cover possible unfore-
seen costs. The Proposed Loan of US$6.3 million would be 48% of the total
cost of the Project, which is estimated at US$13.1 million. The Proposed
Loan would cover the estimated foreign exchange component of the Project.
- - -Ur$ Million- - -    - -  US$ Million - -
Local    Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total
Ranch Development
Pasture Development 1/           770   1,100   1,870      3.1      4.4      7.5
Fencing                          225     150      375     0.9      0.6     1.5
Water Supplies                    50      50      100     0.2      0.2     0.4
Livestock                        125       -      125     0.5       -      0.5
Contingencies                     50      50      100     0.2      0.2     0.4
Sub-total                 1,220   1,350   2,570       4.9      5.4    10.3
Incremental Working Capital 2/  366         -      366     1.5       -      1.5
Technical Services
Plan Agropecuario 3/              90      50      140     0.4      0.2     0.6
Pasture Seed Production
and Processing                    -      75       75      -       0.3     0.3
Consultant Services for Meat
Processing and Hygiene Control
Studies 4/                        -     100      100      -       0.4     0.4
Sub-total                    90      225     315      0.4     0.9      1.3
TOTAL                           1,676   1,575   3,251      6.8      6.3    13.1
1/   Includes fertilizer, pasture seeds, agricultural machinery and equipment.
2/   For purchase of additional feeder steers (para 4.16).
3/   Includes vehicles, technical and consultant services and training for
Plan technicians.
4j/  Includes vehicles for meat inspection service.



- 13 -
D. Financing
4.14      The Project cost would be financed by participating banks, Govern-
ment, ranchers and the IBRD as follows:
Participating
Banks      Government   Ranchers        IBRD        Total
Amount     %  Amount  %    Amount  %   Amount  %    Amount  %
--------------------------USA Million…
On-Ranch
Development      1.8     17    1.2  12      1.9   18    5.4   53       10.3  100
Incremental
Working Capital  1.5    100       -    -      -      -     -      -      1.5  100
Technical and
Consultant
Services          -       -    0.4  40       -      -    0.9   60       1.3  100
TOTAL COST    3.3      25    1.6  12      1.9   15    6.3   48       13.1  100
Government would also provide the necessary funds for the annual local cur-
rency operating costs of the Plan (Ur$90 million) and assurances have been
obtv aed during negotiations that these would be made available as and when
required.
4.15      The peso equivalent of the value of imported pasture seeds, fer-
tilizers and farm machinery and equipment, including equipment for pasture
seed cleaning and processing would be credited immediately upon payment
from the IBRD loan account to the foreign supplier to the Livestock Fund to
be set up in the Central Bank (paras. 4.27 and 4.28) and used to help fi-
nance sub-loans made by participating banks. Terms to importers would be
determined by the Central Bank in agreement with the IBRD and would not ex-
ceed 180 days at an annual interest rate of 11.75%. Assurances on these
terms have been obtained during negotiations. Importers would sell the items
to ranc'-hers through normal trading channels, with highest priority given to
Project ranchers borrowing under Plan auspices. The IBRD's approval would
be required on any ranch plan involving investment of over US$100,000. Assur-
ances to this effect have been obtained from the Plan during negotiations.
4.16      The Participating Banks would, on the basis of approved ranch
development plans, lend 80% of the total on-ranch investment as determined
by the technicians of the Plan. These banks would then be reimbursed 75%
of the amount lent by the Livestock Fund of the Central Bank, thereby con-
tributing 25% from their own resources. The Livestock Fund of the Central
Bank would obtain funds for this reimbursement purpose from the peso equiv-
alent of IBRD payments to exporters of fertilizer, seed and machinery (36%
of total lending ranchers) and would send certified evidence of disbursement
to participating banks to the IBRD for reimbursement of an additional 39%



- 14 -
of total lending to Project ranchers. This reimbursement procedure would
cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of items included in the ranch
investment program such as fencing wire, equipment for water supplies,
pasture seed, inoculant, inland freight costs for all inputs (fuel, truck
spare parts and depreciation) and the cost of pasture establishment (mainly
fuel, machinery spare parts and depreciation). These foreign exchange costs
are estimated to be US$2.1 million. Thus the IBRD's share of ranch develop-
ment investment financing would then be 75% of the sub-loans to project
ranchers, e.g.
Amount          X
(US$ million)
1.  Participating Banks                         1.8           25
2. Livestock Fund of which:
a. Peso equivalent of imported inputs
paid directly by IBRD to foreign
suppliers                              3.3           36
b. IBRD reimbursement of 39% of ranch
development loans disbursed from
Livestock Account in Central Bank    2.1             39
3.   Total Ranch Loans                          7.2          100
4.17      The Project must rely upon availability of sufficient incremental
short-term financing. Shortages in the past (para 2.10) have hindered the
orderly development of livestock ranches. Needed short-term financing for
Project ranchers would be supplied by the participating banks. Any sums
accumulating temporarily to the Livestock Fund, in excess of service payments
to the Bank and administrative costs, will be relent through participating
banks to project ranchers to assist them in meeting their short-term finan-
cing requirements. Individual ranch requirements for the purchase of addi-
tional feeder steers breeding cows or heifers would be derived from the
ranch development plans prepared in each case by the ranchers, with the
assistance of Plan technical staff. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that adequate incremental short-term financing would be avail-
able to project ranchers.
E. Procurement
4.18      Bidding procedures established under the first two loans have
worked satisfactorily. Machinery, wire for fencing and building materials,
both locally manufactured and imported, would be purchased by participating
ranchers through normal commercial channels. There are an adequate number
of representatives and agencies of different international firms to ensure
effective competition. Procurement of pasture seeds would be by interna-
tional tender. Procurement of rock phosphate for manufacture into phosphate



- 15 -
fertilizer by local manufacturers for Project ranchers will also be
through international competitive bidding. Assurances have been obtained
that these bidding and importing procedures would be adhered to.
F. Disbursement
4.19      The Proposed IBRD Loan would be disbursed against (a) the full
foreign exchange costs of fertilizer, pasture seeds, seed cleaning and
processing machinery, technical and consultant services, and vehicles; and
(b) 39% of ranch development subloans made by participating banks. For the
items listed under (a) above, disbursements would be made against invoices.
Appropriate documentation would be submitted by the Central Bank to the IBRD
to support withdrawals from the Loan Account for disbursement relating to
capital expenditures connected with the technical or consultant services.
Payment from the Loan Account against 100% foreign exchange expenditures
would be met upon appropriate documentation submitted through the Central
Bank. For reimbursement on ranch development subloans, certification by
the Plan, including the Technical Director, would be required. Full dis-
bursement of the Loan is expected within 18 months.
G. AuditinM
Auditing of the Fund in the Central Bank and the Project loan
a.ccounts in BR would be conducted annually by the Tribunal de Cuentas of
,;uguay or an accounting firm or accountant acceptable to the IBRD. Project
loan accounts in participating commercial banks and those of the Plan Agro-
pecuario would be audited by firms acceptable to the IBRD. International
firms are represented in Uruguay. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that the financial statements of the Livestock Fund (balance
sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses) and the Project
accounts in Participating Banks would be audited annually by the Tribunal
de Cuentas of the Borrower or an accountant or accounting firm acceptable
to the Bark and, promptly after the preparation of such financial statements
but not laLer than four months after the end of the Livestock Fund's fiscal
year, would be transmitted to the Bank certified audited copies of such
accounts and financial statements together with a signed copy of such
Tribunal de Cuentas' accountant's or firm's report.
H. Orxanization and Management
4.21      The Livestock Fund to be set up in the Central Bank would have
two separate accounts: (a) on-ranch investment, and (b) technical services.



- 16 -
Assurances have been received during negotiations that, prior to the ef-
fective date of the Loan, the Central Bank would create a Fund to adminis-
ter Project funds for on-ranch development. Each participating bank would
also establish a separate account to handle loans made under Project aus-
pices. These accounts would be established in a manner satisfactory to the
IBRD. This was assured during negotiations. Since the BR plays an impor-
zant role in Plan lending activities, it would establish a separate section,
headed by a full-time manager, to handle its Plan subloans (see organiza-
tion chart in Annex 3). During negotiations, appropriate assurances have
been obtained that (a) such a section and accounts would be established,
and (b) a full-time manager would be appointed for BR's section.
4.22      The Honorary Commission for the Plan Agropecuario, an autonomous
agency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, would continue to
coordinate and supervise the livestock credit program (Annex 2). The Plan
is directed by a Board of seven members: a chairman, four representatives
of rancher associations, one from the Ministry of Agriculture and Live-
stock and one from the BR. An organization chart of the Plan is given in
Annex 2. The basic law establishing the Plan specified that it has tech-
nical autonomy in directing and supervising the operation of the livestock
development program. About 50 technicians are employed to appraise ran-
cher loan applications, supervise the disbursement of approved loans and
provide technical advice on ranch development problems, especially on tech-
niques of pasture improvement (para 3.06). The technicians, all university
graduates, have developed a high reputation for technical competence. The
Plan has had three Technical Directors (New Zealanders) since 1961 and has
indicated to the IBRD its desire to continue to obtain directors through
international recruiting. Such expertise is needed principally to conso-
lidate and further adapt modern technologies of livestock and pasture
production to Uruguay conditions. The duties, responsibilities and autho-
rities of the Technical Director are described in Annex 2. Since this
technology Is essential to the continued success of the Plan program,
assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the Plan would con-
tinue to employ a Technical Director whose qualifications, as well as terms
and conditions of contract would be acceptable to the IBRD.
4.23      While the work of the Plan has been technically successful, addi-
tional emphasis on full ranch planning and budgeting for each subloan ap-
plicant is required. Improved on-ranch record keeping to assess Project
benefits is also needed. Technicians are now being trained in these tech-
niques and they will be assisted by the Technical Director provided under
the Project. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that recent
Plan efforts to train technicians in ranch budgeting and ranch record keeping
would be continued, as would the applied pasture research work started under
Loan 407-UR.
4.24      The internal administration of the Plan would be strengthened to
ensure adequate supervision of an expanded credit program. Five regional
supervisors, reporting directly to the Technical Director, would be
appointed to oversee the work of the field technicians. Also, a full-
time accountant and administrative assistant would be appointed and a farm
budget and record-keeping section established, the latter to be under the



- 17 -
Technical Director. Assurances that the Plan's internal organization would
be revised and strengthened have been obtained during negotiations. To date
the Technical Director has not been invited to attend Honorary Commission
weekly meetings when important technical matters relating to the Project
are under consideration. Assurances have been obtained that in the future
the Technical Director of the Plan would attend meetings that in his opinion
concerned technical matters relating to the operation of the Project.
I. Lending Operations
4.25      The Government would be the Borrower and bear the foreign ex-
change risk. A substantial portion of this risk would be covered by the
indexed subloans repaid by Project ranchers (para 4.29). IBRD terms would
be 12 years, including a 4-year grace period. This would allow the Govern-
ment to recover subloans, since they have average terms of 9 years, and
would provide for possible delays. (Annex 7 - Central Bank cash flow.)
4.26      Several changes in the relending procedures used in the preceding
loans are required. It is important to broaden the lending channels by in-
cluding private commercial banks in addition to the BR. The participation
of the private banking sector would increase the number of outlets and en-
able ranchers to deal with their local banks to whom they are known, simpli-
fying the evaluation of creditworthiness. Bringing the Central Bank into
a more direct role and broadening the number of relending channels should
substantially improve the development and working capital credit arrange-
ments for the livestock sector.
4.27      The funds to be relent would be placed in a Livestock Fund in
the Central Bank (para 4.20). The local currency equivalent of IBRD dis-
bursements for imported items would be credited to the Fund for its opera-
tions. The Fund would reimburse the BR and commercial banks 75% of the
face amount of livestock subloans (made to participating ranchers) at an
interest rate of 7.5%. The term of the loan made by the Fund to the
participating bank would be the same as the term of the subloan made by
the bank to a Project rancher. The principal amount reimbursed by the
Fund to the participating banks would be adjusted in the same proportion
as that used for subloans to ranchers. Assurances on the establishment of
the mechanism for channeling money to participating banks and the Plan have
been obtained during negotiations.
4.28      Criteria for determining those commercial banks eligible to
participate would be based on (a) past experience and performance in
agricultural lending, (b) financial condition, (c) managerial capacities
and capabilities and (d) number of branches in the Project areas. Finan-
cial agency agreements, satisfactory to the IBRD, would be drawn up between
participating banks and the Central Bank, which would apply the eligibility
criteria. The Central Bank would administer the Fund on behalf of Govern-
ment. Initially, in addition to the BR, four of the larger commercial banks
in Uruguay are likely to participate. Assurances on the establishment and
enforcement of these eligibility criteria have been obtained during nego-
tiations.



- 18 -
4.29      Of the 3,000 ranchers expected to participate in the Project,
2,000 ranchers are likely to fall within the "Plan Agropecuario" as defined
by the Uruguayan legislation, under which the size of each borrower's ranch
cannot exceed 2,500 hectares, and 1,000 ranchers outside of it, with no
limitation as to size of individual ranches. Ranchers under the "Plan
Agropecuario" will account for about 70% of total on-ranch investment. BR
wvill continue to channel the sub-loans made under these existing "Plan
Agropecuario" ranch size standards. Commercial banks and the BR would also
channel to larger ranchers (2,500 ha and over) funds available for relending
over and above the estimated requirements of the "Plan Agropecuario" ranchers
during the next 12 months. The relations between the Central Bank and BR
and other commercial banks would be provided under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment to be agreed with the IBRD. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that all subsidiary loan agreements between the Central Bank
and participating banks including BR would be subject to the approval of
the IBRD.
4.30      Credit to ranchers under the Project would be extended only on
the basis of ranch development plans. The adjusted outstanding principal
amount of each ranch development loan would be repaid in not less than seven
years but not more than ten years, in installments that would be commensu-
rate with the borrower's estimated net income arising from his ranch develop-
ment plan, including a grace period of not less than twQ years but not more
than four years. However, if the ranch development plan to be financed in-
volves an area in excess of ten percent (10%) of the total area of the ranch,
the grace period of grace would be not less than three years. These terms
would allow beneficiaries to develop their ranches and service their Project
debt without placing excessive stress on their cash position (Annex 5, Tables
5 and 10). Inspection of collateral would be the responsibility of the lend-
ing institution. It could accept or reject the sub-borrower on the ground
of creditworthiness, but could not modify the investment plan or the terms
and conditions of the loan. Assurances on these lending terms and conditions
have been obtained during negotiations.
4.31      The principal of all subloans made to Project ranches would be
adjusted in accordance with an index based on ranch-gatE prices of cattle
and wool. Readjustment will be 100% for loans to borrowers with ranches
in excess of 500 hectares; 75% for borrowers with ranches in excess of 300
hectares and 50% for borrowers with ranches of smaller size. Only a small
portion of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be on-lent to ranchers
whose loans will be subject to less than 100% indexing. The nominal interest
rate of 11% that will be charged under the third livestock project is at a
high enough level to assure a reasonable real interest rate for all except
the smallest ranchers at current rates of inflation. The real rate of
interest charged under the whole program, however, will not fall below the
IBRD current lending rate of 7%, even if the present 15 percent rate of
inflation were to double. Legislation permitting this arrangement has been
approved. The Central Bank would calculate the adjustments, using a base
value of 41.6 kg of beef and 5.2 kg of wool for the quarter between Nov-
ember 1 and January 31 of each year. This volume of beef and wool is the
estimated national average production per ha in Uruguay. Cattle and wool
prices are assembled from a variety of sources, including the national



- 19 -
stockyard, the national meat packing plants, the Chamber of Commerce and
such agencies considered by the Central Bank of Uruguay to be appropriate.
Before March 31 of each year, the Central Bank would forward to the BR,
and any commercial bank participating in the Project, the calculated ad-
justment factor necessary for the principal of each subloan in the Project.
If the value of the adjustment index were equal to or less than one, no
revaluation of principal would be made for that year. A translation of
the legal document that borrowers now sign to obtain an indexed loan is
attached as Schedule 1 to Annex 4. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that the indexing mechanism formulated by Government and
agreed to by participating ranchers would be maintained.
4.32      The interest rate to participating ranchers would be 11% on their
indexed loans. Under Loan 407-UR, the rate was envisaged at 9% per annum
on non-indexed loans but was raised to 11% by the addition of various com-
missions. Bankers, ranchers and officials of the Plan consider such a rate
on indexed loans to be satisfactory. It would include all commissions. As-
surances that an interest rate no higher than 11%, including all commissions,
would be charged to sub-borrowers have been secured during negotiations.
This rate corresponds to the interest rate offered to Uruguayans by the
Ministry of Finance on dollar-denominated Treasury bills and to dollar-
denominated loans made by commercial banks. Any changes in this rate re-
flecting evolving economic and financial conditions in Uruguay would be
subject to the approval of the IBRD.
V. PRICES, MARKETS AND RANCHER BENEFITS
A. Prices
5.01      Current prices provide ranchers with sufficient incentive for
ranch improvement investments. Through a series of Government policy changes,
(paras 2.15 and 2.16), average ranch-gate prices for live cattle have risen
from US$0.13/kg to US$0.20/kg. The latter producers' price is now roughly
comparable with ranch-gate beef cattle prices paid in neighboring beef ex-
porting countries in South America, such as Argentina and Brazil. For the
purposes of the development projections, presented in Annex 5, these im-
proved prices are assumed to be maintained for the life of the Project.
B. Markets-/
5.02      The firm international demand for beef is likely to continue, par-
ticularly in the Mediterranean countries, and all of the additional beef
1/   Annex 1 provides a fuller discussion of this subject.



- 20 -
produced under this Project would be exported. The recently adopted mea-
sures mentioned above also provide processors of beef with greater incen-
tives to export higher quality processed beef than to sell it on the local
domestic market.
5.03      The slaughter capacity of the existing packing houses is currently
fidequate. Several newer, smaller packing houses, all privately owned by
Uruguayan businessmen, have recently started operation in the rural cattle
areas. These are designed mainly for exports (Map 2). A number of the
larger, older Government and cooperative packing houses, located mainly in
or near Montevideo, will require either rebuilding or substantial modern-
ization if they are to (a) operate more efficiently, (b) meet the emerging
international demand for boneless and processed beef and (c) most important-
ly, meet stiffening international inspection and hygienic standards for beef
processing (Annex 1, para 3.23).
5.04      Given the importance of improvements in the meat packing industry
to the balance of payments, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
before approving any proposed investment for the modernization, expansion or
improvement of meat processing plants operating in Uruguay, the Government
would officially review the technical, economic and financial aspects there-
of; and before approving any major investment in any meat processing plants
which as of the date of signing of the Proposed Loan are totally or partially
owned or controlled by Government, Uruguay would (i) define the future
functions of such plants including, the ownership and management thereof,
and (ii) upon such definition, afford the IBRD a reasonable opportunity to
express its opinion and exchange views with the Government. Restoring the
international standard of the meat inspection service is primarily an in-
ternal Uruguayan administrative and organizational matter, though interna-
tional technical assistance has been, and will continue to be, necessary.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that Government would main-
tain and improve its Inspection, hygiene control and disease control services
in respect of beef and sheep meats as would be necessary to satisfy the re-
quirements of the more important markets for Uruguay's meat exports with such
improvements to include, the centralization under a full-time coordinator
within the Ministry of Livestock and Agriculture of all agencies or depart-
ments concerned with such services   An important element of thse meuaures
is constant attention to foot and mouth disease control measures. In this
respect, assurances have been obtained that the GovernDment would (i) ensure
the availability to ranchers of an adequate supply of officially tested
foot-and-mouth vaccines; and (ii) take all necessary action to ensure that
all livestock belonging to ranchers participating in the Project are period-
ically vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease in accordance with the
technical standards recommended by the Borrower's official veterinary service.
5.05      Packing plants in Uruguay are not of sufficient scale to enable
them to set up and maintain beef marketing organizations in the diverse
countries now importing the country's beef (Annex 1, para. 3.28). Further
assurances have been obtained that the Uruguayan meat institute would be
strengthened and combined, not later than April 30, 1971, with the Comis-
sion on Local Meat Supply into a single entity to be in charge, through an
adequately staffed technical department, of (i) supervising the operations



- 21 -
and investments of the meat processing plants operating in Uruguay and (ii)
the organization, coordination and promotion of meat marketing both within
Uruguay and overseas.
C. Rancher Benefits and Revenue Generation
5.06      Prior to mid-1969, there was marginal incentive for producers
to invest in ranch improvement programs, particularly if a significant
portion of such investment had to be borrowed and repaid on an indexed
basis as is now prescribed by law for Plan borrowers. However, with the
recent increases in producer cattle and wool prices, ranchers have suffi-
cient financial incentive to participate in the expanded ranch development
program organized by the Plan. Income to ranchers and financial returns
on incremental investments have been estimated on the basis of ranch bud-
gets (Annex 5). Estimated financial rates of returns on incremental in-
vestments would be 22% for a 1,000-ha breeding/fattening ranch and 23% for
a 500-ha breeding/fattening ranch (Annex 8). Net cash balances after
debt service are also estimated to be adequate. During negotiations,
assurances have been obtained that the Government would establish and main-
tain such policies and would adopt such measures consistent therewith as
would from time to time be necessary to afford efficient livestock producers
doing business within Uruguay a reasonable opportunity to obtain a financial
rate of return of at least fifteen percent (15%) per annum on their new
productive livestock investments, under normal conditions of production.
The following is a budget summary for a typical 1,000-ha Project ranch.
After Development
At Present    Year 3       Year 10
_ _ - -  _ - - Ur$ '000      … - - - - 
Net Income                           894        1,324        1,436
Increment                             -           430          542
Debt Service                          -           126           37
Net Income after Debt Service        894        1,198        1,399
Increment after Debt Service          -           304          505
Rancher Investment through
Herd Build-up                       -           261           -



- 22 -
5.07      A portion of the increment after debt service, generated by Project
investments, would be private savings and thus become available for addition-
al investment. In addition to generating private savings, the Project would
also result in an increase in the number of cattle on Project-financed ranches.
Ranchers would sell part of this increase and retain part for breeding pur-
poses, at their own option. Retention for herd expansion constitutes on-
ranch capital formation; in the first year of development for a 1,000-ha
ranch, the value of these breeding heifer retentions is estimated to be
Ur$168,000 (US$672 equivalent). The rancher could realize further savings
by making additional contributions in cash or kind to advance the develop-
ment of his ranch and increase his future income. Provided present invest-
ment incentives are maintained, ranchers should be strongly motivated to
develop their ranches beyond the point indicated in the ranch budget calcu-
lations.
5.08      A further incentive to ranchers is the Government's work in
organizing the restructuring of the agricultural taxation system, assisted
by the Inter-American Development Bank.  The new system would rely in-
creasingly on an agricultural productivity tax; e.g., those ranchers who
have not improved their lands would pay proportionately more per ha than
ranchers who have. This system is to eventually replace the export taxa-
tion system. It is estimated that the land tax in 1970 will generate about
US$2 million equivalent in revenue, more than offsetting the US$1.2 million
to be lost because of the reduction of export duties and the elimination
of import duties on machinery. It will take about 5 years to fully imple-
ment this revised agricultural taxation system.  The new structure, taken
together with the existing sales taxes (10%) on the value of cattle and
wool marketed, would result in Project-generated incremental public re-
venues of about US$800,000 annually after the seventh year of the Project.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated to be
about 21%. This calculation was based on the aggregation of the incremental
cash flows adjusted for net transfer payments (taxes and subsidies) and
the cost of the important technical services (see Annex 9 for details of
these assumptions).
6.02      At full development after 7 years, the investments made under
this Project are likely to result in an incremental beef production of 7,000
m tons, valued at US$3.5 million equivalent. Under the new tax policies,
virtually all of this beef would be exported. During the 1970's, an in-
creasing portion of Uruguayan beef is expected to be shipped in boneless,
cooked/frozen and special cut form.



- 23 -
6.03      The economic rate of return specified above does not take full
account of certain non-quantifiable benefits. The Project would continue
to introduce proven techniques of pasture improvement and livestock pro-
duction to the Project areas. This would be done in a direct way through
participating producers and in an indirect way through its demonstration
effect. It would also continue to emphasize the in-service training of
technicians in the preparation of ranch development plans, including
detailed financial projections. Additionally, the Project would ensure
the continuation of the major tax and marketing policy reforms introduced
in 1969.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances inter alia have been obtained
that:
(a) Government would:
i.   review the technical, economic and financial
aspects of proposed investments for the
modernization or improvement of meat processing
plants located in Uruguay (para 5.04);
ii.   before approving any major investment in meat
processing plants wholly or partially controlled
by Government, define the future functions of
such plants including their management and
ownership and upon such definition, afford the
IBRD a reasonable opportunity to express its
opinion and exchange views with the Government
(para 5.04);
iii.   maintain and improve its inspection, hygiene
and control and disease control services in
respect of beef and sheep meats as would be
necessary to satisfy the requirements of the
more important markets for Uruguay's meat
exports such improvements to include the
centralization under a full time coordinator
within the Ministry of Livestock and agriculture
all agencies or departments concerned with such
services (para 5.04);



- 24 -
iv.   ensure the availability to ranchers of an
adequate supply of officially tested foot-and-
mouth vaccines and take all necessary action to
ensure that all livestock belonging to ranchers
participating in the Project are periodically
vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease in
accordance with the technical standards recom-
mended by the Borrower's official veterinary
service (para 5.04);
v.   strengthen and combine the Uruguayan meat
institute with the Commission on Local Meat
Supply into a single entity to supervise new
investments in meat processing plants and to
promote Uruguayan meat sales in foreign coun-
tries (para 5.05); and
vi.   establish and maintain such policies and adopt
such measures that would afford efficient live-
stock producers in Uruguay a reasonable opportunity
to obtain a financial rate of return of at least
15% per annum on their new productive investments
under normal conditions of production (para 5.06).
(b) The Central Bank would:
i.   determine terms to importers in agreement with
the IBRD, such terms not to exceed 180 days at
an annual interest rate of 11.75% (para 4.15);
ii.   ensure that the participating banks supply the
project's working capital requirements (para 4.17);
iii.   establish a Livestock Fund under its administration
that would reimburse 75% of eligible adjustable
livestock subloans nade by participating banks at an
interest rate of 7.5% (para 4.27);
iv.   establish and enforce criteria for commercial
bank participation in the Project acceptable
to the IBRD (para 4.28);
v.   ensure that the minimum term of loans provided to
Project sub-borrowers would be 7 years, including
a minimum grace period of 2 years and that the
lending terms and conditions of investment programs
for individual ranch plans approved by the Technical
Director would not be modified by participating banks
(para. 4.30); and



- 25 -
vi.   ensure that the indexing mechanism formulated
by Government and agreed to by participating
ranchers would be enforced (para 4.31).
(c) The Plan Agropecuario would:
i.   ensure that no provision is made for purchase of
breeding heifers or cows under Project subloans
(para 4.05); and
ii.   send to IBRD for its approval final detailed plans
for the development program of the Calprose seed
processing cooperative no later than 4 months
following the signing of the Proposed Loan (para
4.12).
7.02      The condition of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a) establishment of a Livestock Fund in the Central Bank duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b) establishment of a separate action in the Banco Republica
with the appointment to fill the position of a full time
section manager with such establishment and appointment
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(c) employment of the Technical Director;
(d) initial allocation by the Banco Central of the funds
under the Project as between the Banco Republics and
other participating banks; and
(e) signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with at least
one Participating Bank by the Banco Central.
7.03      With the indicated assurances, the Proposed Project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IBRD Loan of US$6.3 million, for a term of 12 years,
including a 4-year grace period.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of the Livestock Industry - Policies and Programs
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      During the period of disbursement on the first two livestock
loans, 245-UR and 407-UR, covering roughly the 1960-68 period - inflation,
discriminatory fiscal policies and Government disregard for modern-day
international hygiene requirements bore hard on the key livestock sector
in Uruguay. These factors inhibited investment to improve herd and pasture
productivity, and, in 1969, led to a ban by the United Kingdom (Uruguay's
largest single client) and by the United States of all imports of Uruguayan
beef products. Thus, despite the successful establishment of the principle
of increased livestock production through modern pasture improvement and
management techniques, the overall objective of the first two loans - in-
creased exports of beef products - was not achieved. Worse still, Uruguay
lost access to two important export markets.
1.02      In light of these developments, the IBRD organized a somewhat
larger and broader appraisal mission than usual to evaluate, in depth, the
impact of the past two loans, to appraise a new loan application and to
review the livestock sector. 1/ It gave special attention to Government
policies and to the processing and marketing of beef. This annex discusses
the significant measures taken by Government in September/October 1969 to
correct the situation and those still required if adequate producer incen-
ti'es are to be maintained and necessary processing and marketing improve-
ments are to be completed.
1.03      There are numerous plausible reasons for the unsatisfactory
past performance of Uruguay's livestock sector. A partial listing would
include inappropriate public support to manufacturing oriented toward
import-substitution at the expense of the livestock industry; Government's
failure to provide adequate institutional assistance to the livestock sec-
tor in areas of research, education and marketing; failure to modernize
porc facilities and to reduce inordinately high handling charges that
affected profits on exported livestock products and the costs of imported
innuts; discriminatory and, at times unpredictable taxation policies that
reduced tne rate of return on new livestock investments below acceptable
levels and led to serious price uncertainties; and erratic price control
policies that inhibited supply response to both foreign and domestic con-
sumer preferences and resulted in adverse factor/production relationships.
1/   A complementary IDB study, conducted in association with Iowa State
University, of the overall agricultural sector of Uruguay, emphasizing
crops, forestry, and fisheries, is currently in process under the
direction of Mr. A. Thieme.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
1.04      A number of the most important of these obstacles, the remedial
measures necessary to remove them and the implications of adopting mea-
sures to stimulate the growth of the livestock sector are also examined
herein. The underlying theme is that the Government of Uruguay must con-
front the problems preventing rapid livestock development. It has already
in4tiated action on a package of structural policy changes that will remove
the most important restraints to adoption of new and proven technologies of
livestock production and processing.
II. BACKGROUND AND CURRENT SITUATION
Production Patterns, Land Use and Farm Size
2.01      Uruguay, with an area of 17 million ha, has a greatly undulating
topography with virtually no wasteland. Rainfall is variable, averaging
1,000 mm per annum but severe droughts occur at about 5-year intervals.
In addition, summers are frequently very dry and hot (December-April).
2.02      Some 90% of the country's area is used for livestock production,
with cropland (including planted forests) accounting for only 8 to 10%.
The predominant feature of land use to date has been the extensive grazing
on unimproved pastures, which have a low productivity level compared to
their potential. A total of 14.9 million ha supports 7.5 million beef
cattle, predominantly Hereford; 0.5 million dairy cattle, mainly Friesian;
and a sheep flock of 23 million, principally Corriedale. Carrying capacity
averages approximately one head of cattle and three sheep per 2 ha.
Production per ha of unimproved pasture averages some 40 kg of beef (live-
weight), 5 kg of wool and 10 kg of mutton. This compares to about 120 to
150 kg of beef, 10 kg of wool and 25 kg of mutton on improved pastures,
which, as a result of programs supported by the two previous loans, now
account for 7% of Uruguay's livestock area. As Uruguay can no longer
bring large areas of new land into use, increased livestock production
must continue to come from increasing animal and per-ha yields (Appendix 1).
The possibilities are great, particularly since the larger producers (some
3,900 farmers have holdings of more than 1,000 ha, Table 1) occupy about
60% of the livestock area and manage about 60% of, Uruguay's cattle herd and
sheep flock. So far, however, these larger farmers have not participated in
the pasture improvement program. Pasture improvement, coupled with fodder
conservation, will also tend to reduce the bad effects in rainfall.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 1
Size of Ranch Holdings
Ha                Cattle              Sheep
Size (ha)      Number     %    ('000)        %      ('000)       %       ('000)   %
1-99        58,163      73      893        6        606         7      1,274    5
100-499        13,688     17   2,637         18     1,436        18      4,587   20
500-999         3,476      5   2,250        15      1,206        15      3,873   17
1,000-2,500    2,654       3   3,875         26     2,096        26      6,110   27
2,500 and over 1,212       2   5,245         35     2,793        34      7,234   31
Total       79,193    100  14,900        100      8,137       100     23,078  100
Source:   Appendix 2.
Importance of Livestock to the Economy
2.03      Uruguay's livestock industry is the mainstay of the country's
economy. Exports of beef and wool and their by-products account for approx-
imately 85% of Uruguay's export earnings. Although official national ac-
count statistics attribute only 9% of Uruguay's gross domestic product to
the livestock industry (Table 2), it probably generates, with ancillary in-
dustries, related transport and services, between 25% and 30% of Uruguay's
national income. The sector also accounts for about 10% of total recorded
emiployment. Beef and wool are, therefore, the pillars and help to provide
the country's 3 million inhabitants with a per capita income of about US$590,
still the third highest in Latin America.
2.04      Despite the potential of the agricultural sector, actual increases
in agricultural production have only kept pace with increases of population.
Uruguay's population is currently growing at the low annual rate of approx-
imately 1.3% and agricultural output (excluding fruits and vegetables) rose
at an annual rate of 1.4% from 1935 to 1968. Although Uruguay's statistical
reporting is deficient, available evidence suggests that the value of beef
and wool production has failed to increase since the early 1960's, resulting
in a relative decline in the contribution of the livestock sector (Table 2).
This .ailure was partly responsible for Uruguay's overall economic stagna-
tion, which has produced a 10% decline in per capita income and chronic
balance of payments difficulties.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Table 2
Gross Domestic Product - Current Factor Cost
GDP, Current Factor Cost    Contribution    Index GOP, Constant
Agriculture         to GoP (%)   Factor Costs 1961 Prices
Year     Total      Total   Livestock  Livestock        Total GDP        Livestock
1960    12,568      2,430      1,923        15.3          100.0           100.0
1961    15,460      2,481      1,802        11.7          103.0           103.9
1962    17,213      2,342      1,548         9.0          1.00.8           85.8
1963    20,707      3,049      2,067        10.0           99.8           102.7
1964    29,882      4,701      3,490        11.7          103.1           105.0
1965    49,059      7,076      5,579        11.4          100.8            97.5
1966    90,791    14,683    11,554          12.7          106.5           103.7
1967   152,000    18,339    13,775           9.1           99.8            89.0
1968   343,000    41,978    31,530           9.2          100.0           100.3
Production, Consumption and Exports
2.05      It is difficult to draw definite conclusions on trends in live-
stock production, consumption and exports from available data. However,
a slight shifting from sheep for wool toward beef production is possibly
emerging. Available information on beef production does not show any dis-
cernible trend - either upward or downward - over the 1951--68 period (Table
3). In terms of the number of animals slaughtered, the 1968 total of about
1.4 million still remains somewhat below the 1951 level (Appendix 3). The
figures indicate a relatively low extraction rate (roughly 17% as compared
to over 40% in the U.S.), reflecting mainly poor nutrition and unimproved
management practices. Beef production, oscillating between 220,000 and
310,000 tons per year, does not show a clear trend either. The relatively
large annual variations in animal slaughter and beef production are pro-
bably the result of weather variations and unofficial trade with Brazil,
as well as the supply response lags typical of livestock production. Most
of the stock is still reared and fed on natural pastures. Since grass is
the only feed, the amount and frequency of rain continues to be an important
variable affecting output. In 1968 and 1969, favorable weather conditions
helped the industry recover from the 1967 drought and contributed to higher
production figures.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Table 3
Production, Consumption and Exports of Beef
(100 metric tons)
Percentage of
Domestic                   Production         Beef Consump-
Year Production Consumption Exports Consumed Domestically tion kg/person
1951    298           187         111               62.7                84.0
1956    251           190          61               75.7                75.6
1961    277           209          68               75.4                75.3
1966    253           184          69               72.7                72.8
1968    298           193         105               64.8                64.8
1969    310           190         120               61.3                67.0
2.06      World demand for beef has grown rapidly, but Uruguay has failed to
take advantage of the situation. An increased percentage of its output
has been used to maintain domestic consumption levels, leaving a reduced
margin for export. During the period 1935-40, Uruguay exported approximate-
ly 42% of her beef production; by 1959-64, however, she was exporting only
28%. Now, about 60% to 75% of her beef production is consumed domestically,
at a rate of 67 kg per capita per year (1969), one of the highest levels
of beef consumption in the world (65 kg in Argentina and 25 kg in Western
Europe). In the 1960's, however, beef consumption declined somewhat, pro-
bably because of a change in price relationships between beef, chicken and
poultry and Government-imposed beefless days.
2.07      With domestic wool consumption fairly steady at some 8,000 tons,
wooL exports have - by and large - followed the trend in wool production
since 1960. As with beef, wool production has either stagnated or declined.
The sheep flock, which numbered 26.3 million in 1968, now stands at some
23 million, a figure unchanged from the 1951 level. In Uruguay, wool
class1fication is not done at rancher levels as it is in New Zealand and
bustraiia.  All classification is done at the central depots of the wool
exporters, most of which are located in Montevideo. There, Uruguayan wool
is baler' and exported by grade.
2.08      Table 4 shows the contribution of the livestock sector to total
export earnings. The decline shown for wool over the 1956-68 period was
a result primarily of declining international wool prices. (See also
Apperdix 4.)



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Table 4
Development of Livestock Exports
(in US$ million)
Livestock Exports            Livestock Exports
Hides               as a Percentage of
Year     Exports      Wool    Beef  and Skins   Total          Total Exports
1956      216.0       131.0   22.0        16.0    169.0              78
1961      174.7       109.8   27.4        16.8    154.0              88
1964      178.9        67.5   74.3        17.5    159.3              89
1968      179.2        78.0   60.3        16.5    154.8              86
Tax and Subsidy Policies
2.09      While many factors undoubtedly contributed to the difficulties of
the livestock industry, adverse Government policies had the most decisive
effect. Many disincentives to the livestock producers were created: the
tax ,pricing, subsidy, marketing, and credit policies of Government dis-
couraged the production and orderly processing, marketing and export of
beef and wool. These policies are the result of neglect and a shift in the
balance of political power brought about by urbanization, which raised
Montevideo's population alone to roughly one-half that of Uruguay as a
whole. These developments gave rise to a taxation system that, in effect,
redistributed income from the livestock producers to the urban citizens.
With non-agricultural production taxed at 11.9%, the tax burden on the live-
stock sector was about triple that in 1968 (34%) (Table 5 and Appendix 5).
Table 5
Sectoral Incidence of Taxation
(1968)
Gross Domestic
Product        Total Taxes   Incidence
(Ur$ million)  (Ur$ million)       (
Total                                     343,000          48,337         14.1
Agriculture                                41,978          12,476         29.7
Livestock Sector                      31,530           10,796         34.2
Other Agriculture                     10,448            1,683         16.1
Non-Agriculture                          301,022           35,861         11.9
2.10      While the tax burden on the livestock sector in absolute amounts
was very high, it was primarily the structure of the system that discouraged
increased production and exports of beef and wool. Under this system, pro-
duction and exports of beef and wool were taxed rather than income realized
by livestock producers. Export taxes on beef, accounting on an average for



ANNEX 1
Page 7
14% of the average f.o.b. beef export price, depressed the domestic beef
price and thus encouraged home consumption. When these export taxes were
combined with other taxes, the final producers' price for beef was reduced
to US$110 per ton liveweight (US$211 per ton cold dressed weight), making
the Uruguayan livestock farmer one of the lowest paid beef producers in the
world. Exports of meat and wool were taxed heavily on a percentage basis
of artificial values ("fictos") established by the Ministry of Finance, with
minimum and maximum retention rates established by law. According to the
Exchange Reform Law, dated December 17, 1959, and Law No. 13,048, dated
April 26, 1962, these retention rates can range from 0.01% to 50.0%. The
system provided the Government with two mechanisms that work together to
adjust the effective peso earnings of exporters of these products. It
resulted in perennial speculation on the part of producers, especially those
dealing in wool.
2.11      Since May/June 1969, Government has initiated major reductions
in the beef and wool export taxes and, equally important, has changed the
structure of the beef export tax system. The incidence of the tax on
beef exports was reduced from 14% to an average in November 1969 of 8%.
Government intended to eliminate this tax altogether after October 1970.
Also, Government substantially modified the structure of the tax; a flat
rate of US$40 per ton on beef exports is now applied. This change will
provide substantial incentives to packing houses to export higher quality
hindquarter beef, particularly in a processed form. For example, under this
flat rate tax, the effective tax on a ton of vacuum-packed boneless hind-
quarter beef valued at, say, US$800 per ton would be only 5% whereas for
1 ton of frozen forequarters shipped bone-in to Israel for US$380 per ton,
the effective tax would be double, or nearly 11%. At the same time, the
export tax on highly processed beef, such as canned or cooked/frozen, has
beern removed completely.
2.12      Calculated at May 1969 input costs and ranch-gate beef and wool
values, the internal rate of return for new investments on ranches averaging
1,00C' ha was below 8%. With the change in the value of beef, the financial
rate of return on new investments was raised to over 20%. Table 6 provides
some details on the various deductions from the export price prevailing in
Mav and November 1969.  The table also shows the high level of processing
cs:v iD Uruguay, the result of both inefficient processing industries and
previcuh- Government policy (para 3.01).
2.13      The situatlon with respect to wool exports was similar.  Ministry
of Agriculture calculations (Table 7) showed that in May 1969 Covernment
taxes absorbed roughly 29% of the export price recelved for greasy wool.
In October 1969, Government announced a significant decrease in wool export
taxes, from 29% to 22% of the value of the exported wool. Further reductions
in this tax are likely to be made in 1970. Table 7 details the quantitative
impact of these changes on producers' wool prices.



ANNEX 1
Table 6                              Page 8
Breakdown of Export Price of Beef
(US$ per ton cdw)
May       October      November    October
19692!     1969!27       19693/      1970i /
Export Price                     460         475          475          475
Exzport Taxes                     82           82          57           17
on beef                       (65)         (65)        (4o)          _
on hides                      (17)         (17)        (17)         (17)
Sales Tax at
Processor Level5/               10          10           10          10
Slaughterhouse Markup            107          44           69           9L
Gross Price to Producer          261.8/      3392/        339          354
Minus Indirect Taxes at           5°           64          64           6h
producer level§/              (32)         (41)        (41)         (43)
producers) selling costs7/    (18)         (23)        (23)         (24)
Net Price to Producer            211          275         275         287
Source:  Instituto Nacional de Abastacimiento de Carnes (INAC) and Staff Estimates.
1/  Original position with beef export tax at 40% of "ficto"? value of US$162/ton
and international price at US$460/ton.
2/  Position after producers prices bid up approximately 30% at slaughterhouse
expense and international price firmed up to US$475/ton.
3/  Position after beef export tax fixed at specific rate of US$40/ton.
h/  Projected position after beef export taxes eliminated entirely.
2/ At 6% of "ficto" value of US$162/ton cdw.
6/ At 12.2% of gross price to producer including:
Municipal Taxes                   5.2%
Agricultural Transactions Tax    4.0
Stamp Tax                         1.8
Unemployment Compen8ation         1.0
Other Taxes                       0.2
7/ At 6.9% of gross price to producer, including
Freight                           5.0%
Commissions                       1.5
Wages for Market Labor            0.4
8/ Equivalent of about Ur$33/kg liveweight
9/  Equivalent of about Ur$43/kg   liveweight



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Table 7
Breakdown of Export Price of Greasy Wool (1968 and 1969)
(Ur$/10 kg)
October 1968         May 1969         October 1969
Export Price                    2,480 (100%)       2,480 (100%)       2,604 (100%)
(f.O.b. Montevideo)
Export Taxes                      712  (29%)         712  (29%)         560  (22%)
Other Taxes                       211   (9%)         272  (11%)         325  (12%)
Processing and
Marketing Charges               357  (14%)         359  (14%)         363  (14%)
Producer Prices                 1,200  (48%)       1,137  (46%)       1,356  (52%)
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Mission Estimates.
2.14      Import duties and other taxes, plus discriminatory monetary poli-
cies, raised agricultural machinery prices (and those of spare parts) to
levels that at times were two to five times the world market price. Partial
tax exemption had been granted by Government in those cases where machinery
was imported by the Plan Agropecuario and other tax-privileged groups or
institutions. The ensuing compartmentalization of machinery importing,
however, threatened to disrupt the orderly development of the machinery
importing and servicing trade. Appendices 6 and 7 give a quantitative
analysis of the various machinery and spare part costs incurred in importing
and selling to farmers. During the May/June 1969 mission, these distortions
of farm machinery imports were discussed at length with the Ministries of
Finan.ce and Agriculture. In October 1969, Government issued a decree elim-
;natiag all import taxes and surcharges on essential farm machinery.  This
important policy measure should go far in normalizing imports and distribu-
tion    farm machinery.  Together with recent steps to raise ranch-gate
proG.Ler prices, this measure would also make it economic for ranchers to
undertake fodder conservation for use during especially difficult winters.
2.15      Subsidies on fertilizer, a prime ingredient of the pasture im-
prover,ent program, are made available by Government at a rate that approaches
one-.lird of the cost to the farmer.  These subsidies amounted to Ur$232
million in 1968 (Table 8), approximately equivalent to 0.5% of total Central
Government revenues. (See also Appendices 8 and 9.)



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Table 8
Phosphate Consumption and Government
Subsidy Payments
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969
(est.)
p 20  ('000 tons)                    28.2    35.1    31.2    49.6       n.a.
Subsidy Payments (Ur$ million) 1/  44.2   140.9   154.1   232.0   464.0
Total Paid, Valued in
Real Terms 2/                      21.4    25.3    22.9    18.4    20.7
1/   Adjusted for devaluations.
2/   Adjusted by Index of Fertilizer prices.
2.16      The announcement of the level of the fertilizer subsidies each
year has frequently been delayed.  This prevented farmers from making timely
investment decisions and led to inefficient operations of the Plan. Ilore
importantly, however, the Government failed consistently to make on-time
payments to the fertilizer companies (who process imported fertilizer raw
materials and are forced to collect the subsidy from Government), which
threatened their financial viability. These companies, therefore, became
increasingly dependent on the Plan for financing raw material imports be-
cause credit was not otherwise available to them except at prohibitive
rates of interest.
2.17      The May/June mission discussed these problems with Government,
expressing particular concern over the timing and the level of the fertilizer
subsidy for each pasture planting year. In the budget for 1970 , an alloca-
tion of Ur$800,000,000 was made for the continuation of the current 33% levels
of phosphate fertilizer subsidy. This ensured that the 1968 and 1969 subsidy
levels would be maintained in real terms. If the rancher terms of trade con-
tinue to improve in 1970, it may be possible for Government to begin to grad-
ually phase out the phosphate fertilizer subsidy. However, it would be pre-
mature to draw up a timetable at this time.
Producer and Consumer Pricing Policies
2.18      Up to May/June 1969, the price that livestock farmers received
for their cattle (averaging Ur$33 gross per kg liveweight or US$0.13 equiv-
alent per kg for finished steers) was controlled and set by Government.
Its level - uniform throughout the country and, by and large, independent
of quality - was determined by:
(a) the price for beef;



ANNEX 1
Page 11
(b) the incidence of export taxation (which, in turn, partially
affected the domestic retail prices for beef);
(c) the level of domestic retail beef prices; and
(d) actions undertaken by the grossly inefficient Frigonal,
the only licensed supplier of beef to the important
Montevideo market at that time.
The live animal price was mandatory for all slaughterhouses and was set at
a level that was intended to minimize the losses incurred by the Frigonal.
Government also controlled domestic retail prices for beef at relatively low
levels (US$0.33 to US$0.44 per kg for good quality boneless beef). They
have moved somewhat in line with the general consumer price index. Con-
sequently, the relative decline of beef prices to the producer was the re-
sult of increased export and other taxes; increased meat plant inefficiency;
and, at the producers' level, rising freight and other charges. The inci-
dence of changes in the level of export taxes was clear: efffective exchange
rates (taking into account export taxes) for beef exports in 1968 were some
20% below the official buying rate of the dollar; this compares to a dif-
ference of only 6% in 1964.
2.19      It was in this vital area of producer and consumer pricing policies
that Government has acted with substantial changes. As a result of closing
the Frigonal because of a 4-month strike by its work force, the Government
suspended its beef and mutton supply monopoly to Montevideo and allowed
the private meat plants to sell on the internal market. In the ensuing
scramble for this profitable trade, meat plants competed for slaughter
cattle and bid up the price some 30%, to an average of Ur$43 per kg live-
weight. This new price was maintained for some months while the Frigonal
was on strike. After the strike ended, Government found it impossible to
lower the producer prices back to an average of Ur$33 per/kg and thus took
a series of important policy steps, the net effect of which will be to main-
tain the level of producer prices at the higher levels.
2.20      The decrees issued directed the following:
(a) raising the internal level of beef prices an average
of 15% on the domestic market;
(b) abolishing Frigonal's 40-year monopoly over the
Montevideo market and allowing the private meat plants
to supply the local market under a flexible quota system; and
(c) transferring or retiring 450 administrative staff out
of Frigonal. This will improve its operating efficiency
and allow a reduction in its processing margin, part of
which is being passed back to the ranchers in higher
ranch-gate cattle prices. A tax of 3% on beef sold
internally is also included in the 1970 budget.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
The proceeds of this tax w4ll be placed in a Fund to
(1) help restructure the meat processing industry, and
(2) pay for the retirement of a substantial number of
Frigonal and EFSCA I/ blue collar workers.
2.212     These steps, together with the reduction and restructuring of the
:-ort taxes (pare 2.11) and the drop in the Frigonal's margin, should keep
the ranch-gate pr'ce of cattle at an average of Ur$43 per kg for 1970.
Further reductions in the beef export tax and/or further efficiencies in
Frigonal and EFCSA's 2/ operations should enable Government to maintain this
price in real terms, especially i£ the international price of beef were to
show any trend upwards. 3/
2.22      Wool prices to the producer were also eroded over the 1962-68
period. The general consumer price index rose nearly 47% faster in this
period than did the index of producers' prices for wool, so that these
prices deteriorated by roughly 53% in real terms. Over the same period,
export prices for wool also deteriorated but by somewhat less than one-
quarter. The differential rate, or price decrease, was, therefore, caused
by increasing export taxation and by rising internal taxes, marketing and
other costs. In the 1964-68 period, the incidence of export taxation on
wool rose. While the effective exchange rate for greasy wool and tops
stood at 80.2% of the official dollar buying rate in 1964, it declined in
1968 to 72.6% of the official rate, a deterioration of approximately 10%.
2.23      In October 1969, producer prices for wool began to increase.
There were two reasons for this: (a) the international price of wool began
to firm up, and (b) the export taxes on wool were reduced (para 2.13).
Table 7 gives a quantitative analysis of the movement of producer prices
and shows the relative impact of Government policy changes and the effect
of stronger international price on the ranch-gate price. 3/
Inflation and Input/Outnut Relations2it s
2.24      Three clearly defined stages characterized Uruguay's economic
development in the past 25 years. In the first, covering 1942 to 1954,
there was a vigorous growth of t'ie economy as a whole. Increases in
capital formation, made posis4ble by high world market prices for Uruguay's
export products, led to rnpid expansion of the country's productive capa-
city; traditional exports, basicallv woel meat and hides, rose signifi-
cantly; and efforts to replace industrial imports were intensified. During
1/   A meat packing cooperative owned by the workers.  The Board of Directors
of this cooperative was recently taken over by Government.
2/   EFSCA's Artigas plant has now been closed pending substantial remodeling.
3/   In the first half of 1970, beef prices at the ranch gate have tontinued
to rise, offset in part by a fall in ranch gate wool prices.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
those years, the country consolidated its position as one of the most highly
developed countries in Latin America. It had a high level of income equit-
ably distributed and broad systems of social security, education, and public
health. During the second stage, covering 1955 to 1957, when export prices
dropped from the high level reached during the Korean War, the value of
exports declined appreciably, balance of payments problems emerged, and
inflationary pressures were created. The per capita product, which had
been rising steadily by almost 4% per annum, came to a halt at the fairly
high level - about US$700 - attained in 1954. In the third stage, from
1958 to 1968, the serious economic and financial problems that had begun
to appear during the preceding 3-year period were aggravated. The per
capita product declined to an annual average of about US$590 and steady,
intensive inflation became the predominant negative characteristic.
2.25      In addition, therefore, to the fiscal policies of the 1960's that
clearly penalized the key livestock sector, rapid inflationary developments
of the past 8 to 9 years further discouraged increased production and ex-
ports of livestock products. This affected the entire sector generally,
but particularly the ability of those farmers considering ranch and pasture
improvements to obtain increased productivity.
2.26      Over the 1962-69 period, Uruguay's general consumer prices rose
29% faster than the value of average beef, mutton and wool output per hec-
tare, thus eroding the general purchasing power of farm outputs (Table 9).
Appendix 10 shows the composition of consumer expenditures in 1962. At the
same time, the index of farm input prices (related to the seed, fertilizer
and other costs to improve 1 ha of native pasture) rose 37% faster than
farm output prices, so that, on an average, a 29% increase in peso terms
in farm output prices would be required to restore investment incentives
to the 1962 level. Appendices 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 provide detailed
information. In October 1969, as was seen, the Government did take measures
to raise producer's prices for beef 30% at the ranch-gate.
Table 9
Key Indices
General
Index Livestock        Consumer               Index Improvement
Year   Producers' Prices  Price  Index   (2)/Cl)         Costs per Ha   (4)1(1)
(1)               (2)          (3)           (4)             (5)
1962         100.0             100.0         100.0        100.0             100.0
1963          97.3             119.2         122.5        113.1             116.2
1964         122.0             169.7         139.1        167.8             137.5
1965         194.9             265.7         136.3        253.0            129.8
1966         350.4             460.9         131.5        627.9            179.2
1967         673.1             872.4         129.6        918.5             136.5
1968        908.6            1,965.9         216.4      1,753.1            192.9
1969      1,776.1            2,288.4         128.8      2,435.4            137.1
Source: Plan Agropecuario, Statistical Office and Mission Estimates.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
2.27      In spite of those disincentives, however, a few farmers did
undertake pasture improvement programs in the 1962-68 period, stimulated
by the terms of the loans made available to them by the Bank of the Republic
(BR) under the Plan. Up to January 1969, these loans were not indexed to
changes in Uruguay's price levels, thus making them more nearly "hard
grants." The grant element of the loan to these livestock farmers compen-
:Fed for deteriorating input/output price relationships over the period.
While farmers participating in the livestock development program were bene-
fited by the non-indexing of subloans, those outside were exposed to the
full force of the investment disincentives. They reacted by either main-
taining or reducing production levels. The latter is probably a key factor
in the stagnation of livestock production over the 1960-68 period.
III. PROCESSING AND MARKETING OF LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS
3.01      Uruguay must make a series of major decisions on the shape, size,
location, ownership and market patterns of its beef processing industry.
Since June 1969, a number of difficult steps, primarily political in nature,
has been taken to begin the restructuring of the industry. The issues still
remaining are both political and technical and, if they are squarely met
with sound technical and marketing advice, are likely to lead to the need
for substantial investment 1/ in the processing industry over the next 7
years.  If, however, the decisions are made piecemeal and investments are
made in an uncoordinated fashion, the result will likely be costly, non-
productive, unrelated improvements. If the investment program is correctly
undertaken, Uruguay's beef export prospects and, thus, her general credit-
worthiness for the next two decades, would be substantially improved.
3.02      Over the past 10 years or so, the economic and social problems
associated with Uruguay's economic stagnation have also affected the meat
processing plants. The whole range of difficulties, such as high export
and import tax levels, price controls, labor problems and credit unavaila-
bility, had a serious impact upon the economics of the meat plants, which
raised processing costs in Uruguay to the very high level of US$107 per
ton in May 1969 as compared to US$30 in Argentina.
Structure and Status of the Processing Industry
3.03      The structure of Uruguay's meat industry has changed significant-
ly in the past decade. A number of medium-sized export-oriented plants have
been established outside Montevideo. These are owned by Uruguayan business-
men. The two largest and oldest plants are located in Montevideo. One
(Frigonal) is owned and operated by Government, the other (Artigas) by a
1/   In New Zealand, for example, nearly US$32 million has been spent
modernizing existing and building new meat export works in the past
4 years.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
workers' cooperative, EFSCA. The international meat packing companies,
Armour, Swift and Liebigs, no longer operate facilities in Uruguay. Owner-
ship and slaughter patterns of the frigorificos (meat plants) are summarized
in Table 10.
Table 10
Slaughter for
Domestic Con-   Slaughter
Number     sumption      for Export              Total
(Head) - 1968      (Head)               (Head)
Cattle   Sheep Cattle   Sheep    Cattle    Sheep
Government-owned
or Operated          2   243,798  14,950  87,557       -      331,355    14,950
Cooperative Owned
(EFSCA)              3      -        -    240,076  124,292  240,076   124,292
Privately Owned 1/   10    38,826  40,763 296,131  861,327  334,957   902,090
Total             15   282,624  55,713 623,764  985,619  906,388 1,041,332
1/   Excludes non-inspected slaughter and slaughter by inspected small
slaughterhouses.
3.04      Most of the commercial livestock slaughter, excluding the non-
inspected slauglhterhouses and farm slaughters, is handled by 15 meat plants,
9 within 65 km and 4 within 10 km of Montevideo (see Map 2). These 15 1/
account for nearly all of the exports of meat and meat products, with six
contributing over 70% of the country's beef exports. More than one-third
of Uruguay's inspected livestock slaughter is by two of thie largest meat
plants and the top five slaughter more than half of the cattle. Six
meat plants slaughter 70% of the inspected sheep and lamb. The current
theoretical slaughter capacity of the meat packing plants is considerably
in excess of current or medium-term requirements. However, the effective
capacicy, taking into account chilling and freezing capacity, is about equal
to currenit slaughter. If two of the larger older plants were closed or
repl:ced, there would exist a medium-term (5 year) need for further slaughter-
i.-ig capacity. The operating conditions of the plant vary widely, from very
1/   The 15 export meat plants in Uruguay include:  1 large plant
(Artigas); 1 very large meat plant (Frigonal), which exports only
moderate quantities, 6 medium-sized meat plants, each slaughtering
40,000 to 70,000 cattle annually, almost wholly for export; 5 relative-
ly small meat plants, each slaughtering approximately 15,000 to 30,000
cattle per year; 2 small meat plants, slaughtering 7,000 to 10,000
cattle per year; a few "mataderos," small slaughter houses with some
exports, with a total slaughter for export of approximately 25,000
cattle.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
good to poor. Appendix 16 describes the condition of each exporting plant
on a scale of 1 to 5. Ilygiene conditions also vary and paragraphs 3.19 to
3.27 give a fuller description of this aspect.
3.05      All of Uruguay's meat plants produce, for export, chilled and
5"-)zen carcasses and edfble offals.  All but Frigonal export boneless beef
,ad most of them export at least small volumes of special cuts. Only three
- the larger ones - produce canned beef and meat extract. Three plants not
now canning beef hope to add canning facilities to their operations within
the next 5 years. Only two plants, both owned by EFCSA, can now produce
cooked frozen beef (Artigas and Victoria). Tallow, bloodmeal and bonemeal
are produced for export by the larger frigorificos and one or two smaller
plants.
3.06      Hides and skins are prepared and sold in the local market rather
than exported directly. Only two plants indicated that they exported some
hides and skins and, in those instances, only a relatively small proportion
of their output went directly to export.
3.07      As a result of the 40-year-long monopoly held by the Frigonal for
the beef supply of Montevideo, many non-inspected slaughterhouses and but-
cher shops just outside Montevideo purchased directly at cattle fairs and
farms. This led to a proliferation of slaughterhouses and shops on the
outskirts of the city, which, in turn, resulted in the disorganization of
the live cattle marketing system and larger sales of meat to the consumer
without the required, even though unsatisfactory, veterinary inspection.
This has also led to some decline in activity of the big slaughterhouses,
mainly Government-owned, which maintained and increased their labor forces
in the face of a declining throughput. This gave rise to high operating
cost structures for the plants.
3.08      Frigonal also had a monopoly on the supply of mutton but in
practice did not take advantage of it. In recent years, it supplied only
1% of total mutton consumption demands. Frigonal's inefficiency is again
demonstrated by the fact that its slaughter fee for mutton is 30% higher
than the one charged by slaughterhouses in the interior.
3.09      Labor.  The number of employees working at the various plants
differs greatly (Table 6), In part reflecting excess employment, particularly
in the Government works. Frigonal employs 3,650 (1,300 of which are office
staff) and EFCSA (Artigas) reported a total of 2,600 (300 of which are
office workers). Anglo, at Fray Bentos, employs 1,450 (135 of which are
office workers). On the other hand, frigorifico San Jacinto (recently
starting up under new ownership) employs only 90 persons. Three other small
plants each employ from 250 to 500.
3.10      In general, the plants employ approximately one office worker
or supervisor for each 10 workers. However, this relationship varies con-
siderably, particularly at Frigonal (para 3.09). Appendix 17 provides
additional details on the personnel setup and operational patterns of the
meat plants.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
3.11      The powerful trade unions have effectively controlled the work
force levels at the larger meat plants located in Montevideo and Fray Bentos.
As a result, such plants are operating with a much larger labor force than
is used at plants of comparable size and age elsewhere. Frequent official
and wildcat strikes at these plants also preclude an orderly buying and
marketing operation. Smaller, privately owned plants operating away from
Montevideo did not suffer greatly from such labor difficulties and most
have been able to maintain relatively stable and efficient labor forces.
3.12      Recent Policy Changes.  In an effort to solve the problems that
had plagued the industry for so long, Government began to take a series of
important policy steps. These were designed to serve as a base for the
pending modernization of the cattle slaughtering and processing industry.
The actions outlined below were specified either by decree or by incorpora-
tion in various laws and all were put into effect between May and November
1969.  In this period, Government:
(a) substituted a cash payment for that portion of the Frigonal's
worker's wage received in beef. Each working day, all employees
formerly got 2 kg of beef, at least half of which was sold out-
right. Implementation of this measure led to 4 months' work
stoppage and general labor strife in Montevideo;
(b) abolished Frigonal's monopoly of cattle slaughter
and beef supply to the Montevideo market. All meat packing
plants are now able to supply the domestic market under a
flexible quota system;
(c) designated funds in the 1970 budget that will permit the
transfer or retirement of 450 of Frigonal's administrative
personnel,
(d) established a 3% sales tax on all meat sold by the privately
and cooperatively owned packing plants in the domestic market.
The proceeds of this tax, to be held in a special fund, are
to be used for (1) restructuring the industry, (2) improving
the marketing of beef, and (3) compensating blue collar workers
laid off from Frigonal and EFSCA;
(e) closed the inefficient EFSCA plant, Artigas, and took over
EFSCA's Board of Directors; and
(f)  aSolished all irport duties and surcharges on the equipment
imported Eor the modernization program of the packing industry.
The level of taxation on equipment for processing meat for export
was as substantial as was the level of duties affecting imports
of agricultural machinery mentioned earlier. The average level
of import duties, sales tax, port charges, and the like on such
equipment varied from 50% to 100% of the c.i.f. values. This
reduced the processor's incentive to restructure and modernize
his plant to meet the hygienic requirements imposed by the U.K.



ANNEX 1
Page 18
and U.S. and desired by other buyers, or to vary his beef export
product mix to meet the changing pattern of international meat
demand.
3.13      A substantial amount of action and investment, however, is still
-(-ded to prepare the meat packing industry for the rapidly changing inter-
national demand pattern emerging for the 1970's. Determinations must be
made by Government as to:
(a) basic structure and ownership of the industry. Currently,
the packing industry, in terms of slaughter capacity, is
divided roughly into thirds: private ownership, public
ownership, and workers' cooperatives. Government will have
to determine the future pattern of ownership and the
role of the Government plants;
(b) the location of new processing plants. In making these
difficult decisions, Government will have to pay particular
attention to transport and to the important trade unions and
their future role in the industry;
(c) slaughter capacity. Total slaughter capacity in the industry
is about double the available cattle supply, but freezing and
cold storage facilities are inadequate. A cutback in slaughter
capacity will be needed.
(d) patterns for investment to upgrade hygienic standards and to
modernize slaughterhouse facilities. The international demand
for beef is changing very rapidly, with an increasing portion
of beef being traded in a more processed form. Uruguayan
meat plants now lack the processing equipment and the cold
storage facilities necessary to meet this demand. Modern
hygienic standards are not enforced nor do plants have the
equipment necessary to ensure that such standards are main-
tained. To meet such requirements, planning for investment
in upgrading hygienic standards should be integrated very
closely with plans to modernize slaughtering and cold storage
facilities.
(e) Methods to improve operating efficiency. The Uruguay meat
plants, both public and private, operate well below accept-
able levels of meat processing efficiency. The cost of such
inefficiency, caused by overstaffing, poor layout and distorted
marketing patterns, is mainly passed back to the producers in
the form of lower producers' ranch-gate prices for cattle. Any
modernization program should have as its main goal the improvement
of the operating efficiencies of the meat plants.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
Modernizing the Processing Industry
3.14      There is general recognition throughout the industry that facili-
ties and equipment must be upgraded to permit more efficient slaughtering
and processing operations and that hygienic facilities must be improved.
The industry is realistic in recognizing the urgent need to set up an approved
inspection system and to ensure acceptance of its products in the export mar-
ket. There are, however, serious difficulties to be faced in improving the
plants.
3.15      All of the smaller and medium-sized meat plants want to upgrade
their current facilities, and most want to expand specific areas of opera-
tions (Appendix 18).' Several plants want to add facilities for producing
special cuts and also cooked-frozen products in order to cater to new demands
in the export market. Several indicate a desire to increase substantially
their boning operations. This will be necessary to meet the new bone-out
requirement of the U.K. Several indicate a desire to expand or add by-
product sections to produce a larger volume and better quality of edible
offals; they also want to salvage more of the inedible by-products of
slaughtering. Several plants wish to upgrade and increase refrigerated
facilities. Table 11 summarizes these needs as given to the mission by
individual plant owners.
Table 11
Needs for U_grading and Exanding Facilities
Stated Needs                   5 Medium-sized    6 Smaller2/        Total, 11
for Facilities                     Plants           Plants -          Plants
Remodel Slaughter Floor
(includirLg inspection
facilities)                       3                 3                6
Add Boning                           2                 3                 5
Add Cooking                          3                 6                 9
Add Canning                          3                 1                 4
Add Special Cuts                     3                 1                 4
Add By-products                      2                  5                7
Adi Coolers/Freezers                 3                  3                6
Electr-ical Improvements             1                 1                2
Water Treatment                      1                 1                 2
Motor Transport (refrigerated)       3                  3                6
1/   Comargen, Carrasco, Victoria, Canelones, Sud Americano.
2/   Cruz del Aur, Tacuarembo, Colonia, Durazno, Codadesa, San Jacinto.
Source: lnterviews by IBRD Mission, May/June 1969.



ANNEX 1
Page 20
3.16      Upgrading the existing slaughtering and processing facilities need
not result in an over-expansion of Uruguay's slaughter capacity for export.
In fact, with replacement of tne iarge, old facilities at EFCSA (Artigas)
and Z-av Bentos with smaller facilities, there could be a net reduction in
t1-tal slaughter capacity. Conversion to work in new lines of highly pro-
-se- goods - canned meat, vacuum packed or cooked frozen meats - frequently
e,quires remodeling of the area used for cutting and a change in cutting pro-
cedures. Also, complementary chilling and freezing, especially blast (super-
cold) freezing facilties, are often necessary. Experience in Argentina in-
dicates that, while very little investment is needed to increase actual
slaughtering capacity, substantial modernizing and rearrangement of existing
slaughtering floors is required to satIsfy Public Health Code standards.
3.17      Some excess of slaughtering capacity almost always exists in any
country. The really limiting factor in meat production for export is the
refrigerated holding capacity. Slaughter and processing must be geared to
the capacity of meat handling and storage, and this is tied largely to the
capacity of coolers and freezers available.  It is relatively easy to expand
slaughter by operating longerl hours or using two or even three shifts, if
the animals are obtainable. But there is no purpose in a meat plant ex-
panding slaughter and processing beyond its available cooler and freezer
capacity, since that would result merely in loss of the perishable products.
An expansion in export volume to provide Uruguay with urgently needed foreign
exchange earnings can be achieved only by upgrading and expanding the pro-
cessing and cooler freezer facilities.
3.18      Without exception, every meat plant owner interviewed was emphatic
about the need for additional working capital and medium-term development
credit. This credit is required to provide operating capital for prompt pay-
ment of livestock purchases and to supply the necessary funds for upgrading
and expanding present facilities and equipment. In all instances, the very
high cost of borrowing money (3% to 4% per month) was cited as the principal
obstacle to obtaining necessary financing. No estimate of the medium-term
development credit needs for meat plant improvement had been made by Uruguay.
Meat Inspection and PIALa lylgLene
3.19      Government disregard for modern-day international plant hygiene
and meat inspection requirements has seriously impaired Uruguay's reputa-
tion as an exporter of wholesome meat products. This is exemplified by
recent measures taken by Uruguay's client countries. First, early in 1969,
United Kingdom inspection of the Uruguayan meat plants revealed that sani-
tary conditions were unacceptable. It was also determined that Uruguay's
meat inspection service did not meet internationally acceptable standards.
Consequently, the U.K. instituted an embargo on all imports of meat and meat
products from Uruguay, effective as of June 14, 1969. This affects about
30% of Uruguay's meat exports. Such strong action served to impress on both
the meat plants and the Government the fact that urgent and immediate steps
should be taken to correct the conditions that caused the embargo. The U.K.
has stated that only after such steps are taken, including the establishment
of a proper and effective meat inspection service and the upgrading of the
slaughtering and processing facilities, will its embargo be lifted. Second,



ANNEX 1
Page 21
during 1968, the U.S. Government asked the Uruguayans to remove authoriza-
tions from 12 meat plants (out of a total of 14 that were certified to ex-
port to the U.S. as of January 1, 1968). Two new meat plants were certified
thereafter and one of the rejected meat plants was later reinstated, so that
in May/June, only -ive were authorized to export to the U.S. In October
1969, certificatio,ns for these five plants were also withdrawn, which means
that now a U.S. embargo on Uruguayan meat products is also in effect.
3.20      Government has taken steps to reorganize its underpaid, ineffectual
meat inspection service. Previously, it had no full-time director; the in-
spectors worked only part-time and most were employed and paid by the plants
for which they worked (Table 12).
Table 12
Meat Inspectors
- - - - June, 1969 - - - - -         Feb. 1970
Full Time            Part-Time       Full-time l/
Government Company  Government Company  Government
Veterinarians                -        1          30         3         47
Assistant Meat Inspectors   5        63          23        16         41
1/   44 hours per week.
Morale was low and there was no Uruguayan law that was enforceable by the
inspectors. As a result, the inspection of carcasses and general sanitary
standards in the planits had fallen considerably. This was reaching serious
proportions, as the type of beef products being demanded more and more by
the miajor importing countries (boneless, special cuts, frozen and vacuum-
packed, cooked and frozen and canned for institutional use) require in-
creasingly rigorous inspection and hygienic standards at each stage of
processing.
3.21      Anticipating the U.K. ban, the Government began to move - although
slowly - by issuing a decree (May 14, 1969) that established a basis for an
independent, well-directed and paid, full-time Government inspection service.
The decree recognized that the purchaser countries had been making demands
of variotis kinds regarding the maintenance and operations of the meat plants
and the manner in which veterinary services should be performed. It was
also recognized that important reforms had been requested to bring the fri-
gorificos up to the standards approved in each importing country. Comments
on the organization and operation of the veterinary services acknowledged
that:
(a) all hygienic, sanitary and technological inspection
should be performed by personnel of the Animal
Industry Department, no; by officials of the
plants;



ANNEX 1
Page 22
(b) the veterinary inspectors should be employed full time;
(c) salaries of all the meat inspection staff should be
raised to attract and retain qualified staff; and
(d)  in-plant Znspection should be continuous through the
time of shipment to cover the quality and condition
of the products exported.
i.22      A number of futher actions have been taken in regard to (a),
1b) and (c) above. The 1970 budget includes an allocation for payment of
meat inspectors, independently of the meat plants. Contracts are being
signed to ensure that each inspector will work full time at a substantially
higher salary than heretofore. However, a full-time director has yet to
be appointed. Two U.K. specialists have spent 3 months in Uruguay training
Uruguayan meat inspectors. Finally, the Government has engaged interna-
tional specialists to help advise it on restructuring the chain of command
of the meat inspection service.
3.23      Regulations and Procedures.  Uruguay's meat inspection decree
(para 3.21) 1/ regulations and procedures must be enforced and personnel
and operations must be improved in order to meet standards acceptable to
buyers and governments of importing countries if Uruguay is to expand its
export trade significantly. The Government of Uruguay must take responsi-
bility for assuring that the meat plants achieve and maintain acceptable
standards. 2/ It must have a meat inspection service entirely separate
1/   It is extremely important that the intent of the decree be fully
implemented and carried out. In this connection, the enforcing power
of the decree will be greater if it is put into law. The old 1915
law, which currently provides the legal basis for the national meat
inspection program, is inadequate. Plans for a new law are being made
but this will take 1 year and possibly 2 for enactment. In the meantime,
the national meat inspection program is using the Argentinian regulations,
which have been recognized as adequate by most countries. Any establish-
ment that refuses to comply with these regulations would be denied export
privileges. Copies of the Argentine regulations are in veterinary offices
in meat plants.
2/   For example, the Argentine Government, in a recent report by the Na-
tional Meat Board on the Meat Processing Industry ,has given consider-
able emphasis to improvements in meat inspection and plant hygiene.
A detailed and strict National Public Health Code was drawn up and
is now being carefully enforced. Investment programs are being re-
viewed in Argentina that will (a) enable exporting plants to adapt
their equipment to the requirements laid down in the Public Health
Code and (b) modernize plants to reduce operating costs and process,
chill or freeze different beef cuts. The report suggests priority
be given to investments required "to correct present hygiene and
sanitation conditions."



ANNEX 1
Page 23
from the control or influence of the meat plants. If any plant does not
meet the required standards, the inspectors must have authority to require
the meat plant to cease operations until conditions are satisfactory.
Each of the meat plants must be subject to continuous in-plant inspection
by employees of the Government of Uruguay. Once the inspection program
has been proven, foreign governments and buyers will respect the quality
and wholesomeness of Uruguay's products. The Government veterinarians
must make adequate inspection of animals both before and after slaughter.
There must be sanitary handling of the products and proper supervision of
production from the live animal to the finished products, as well as
compliance with all other requirements as spelled out in the official meat
inspection regulations.
3.24      When each shipment of meat or meat products leaves the meat plant,
it should be accompanied by an official meat inspection certificate signed
by a Government veterinarian. The certificate should identify the shipment,
the shipper's name and the official plant number. It should also show that
the product was inspected and certified to be in a clean, wholesome condi-
tion; that the product contains no prohibited materials; and that it was
handled in a sanitary manner. In general, the meat inspection services is
weakened significantly in three areas:
(a) Supervision. Supervision of inspection programs at
meat packing plants from the central office appears
to be a major deficiency. Travel by supervisors is
handicapped by the lack of suitable vehicles for
visiting meat packing plants in or around Montevideo.
This will be improved by funds made available under
the Third Project;
(b) Training. No organized training program for inspectors
or helpers exists. Training has been carried out mainly
by letting a new employee work alongside an older one
untiL he learns the job. As a result, a number of in-
spectors were using acceptable inspection techniques but
were overlooking deficiencies in the hygienic conditions
of the products, equipment and plant employees; and
(c)  Central Office Organization.  The location of the Central
Office as a minor division in the Ministry of Agriculture
appears to detract from its effectiveness in carrying out
a strong meat inspection program. A considerable upgrading
of the Central Office within the Ministry is required.
3.25      Hygiene Equipment.  Almost without exception, the exporting
plants face problems in achieving acceptable standards of sanitation and
operations. These problems will be major for some and minor for others.
Substantial expenditures will undoubtedly be necessary to bring the older
plants up to the required standards. Management of older meat plants,
therefore, is faced with the difiicult decision of whether to make large
expenditures for upgrading outmoded, obsolete facilities and equipment or



ANNEX 1
Page 24
to undertake programs of renewal or replacement with new, smaller and more
efficient facilities. From a longer term standpoint, it might be far more
economic to take either of the latter courses rather than undertake costly
temporary actions. A key factor, of course, is the availability and con-
ditions of financing.
3.26      It should be possible to bring those meat plants with basically
sound and not too old or outmoded structures and equipment up to standard
with only moderate expenditures. It is of extreme importance to all
establishments that their personnel in the slaughtering and processing
operations recognize the need for and adhere to the high standards of
cleanliness required. Even the most modern and efficient facility cannot
assure continued sanitary conditions if its personnel are not correctly
trained and management does not insist that sanitary practices are followed
at all times. The layout and operation of the slaughter floor and cutting
rooms are also very important to the maintenance of sanitary standards.
Adequate inspection must be provided throughout the process, but especially
in the slaughter and dressing operations. Slaughter facilities must be
arranged so that fully adequate inspection of the various organs can proceed,
with the carcass and identification of the carcass and organs maintained
until inspection approval.
3.27      More than half of the meat plants visited appeared to require
changes in the slaughter floor and inspection facilities, some of them
substantial. On the other hand, such improvements will contribute greatly
toward meeting the new requirements for acceptable sanitation and provide
opportunity for more efficient operations.
Institutional Reorganization for Improved Marketing
3.28      A specific organization or authority should be assigned responsi-
bility for organizing industry-needed programs for training, technical
assistance and market information. Government must take the initiative
and make the official institutional designation, preferably by law; such
an institution should be given specific responsibilities and supplied with
sufficient resources. The industry, of course, should play a primary part



ANNEX 1
Page 25
in supporting it, both in policy direction and money. 1/ The recent 3%
sales tax on all beef slaughtered for local consumption will be used to
help finance the operation (para 2.20).
3.29      Market Information Needs.  Meat plant officials depend almost en-
tirely on private sources for whatever market information they obtain. Most
market intelligence comes from their agents abroad or from the foreign
buyers who contact them. None of the private meat plants obtains market
information from the Uruguayan Government. Officials of most of the
meat plants do make visits to their roreign markets, generally once or
twice a year, and these contacts are helpful. However, there is still a
distinct deficiency in current foreign market information available.  Such
an important area should be given much more consideration and attention by
both the meat plants and the Government. In any program to maintain and
increase export outlets, market information is critical; therefore, steps
1/   In Argentina, for example, a National Meat Board (Junta Nacional de
Carnes) functions with broad authority, under a "Meat Law," to develop
and maintain foreign markets for Argentine beef. The Board is an
autonomous agency, with nine directors representing the Government,
producers and packers. The principal objectives of the Board were
originally (a) to promote livestock production, (b) to develop and
maintain foreign markets for livestock and meat products, and (c) to
establish national standards and controls. The Board's original
operations have been expanded and it now: (a) licenses packing plants
and iLvestock and wholesale meat markets, (b) regulates meat grading,
(c) makes price proposals to the Government, (d) recommends policies
affecting livestock and meat exports and domestic consumption, (e)
makes economic analyses of the livestock and meat situation, (f) car-
ries oni market development activities in foreign markets through its
representatives and especially through trade fairs. The Meat Board
also has the power to promote commercial and industrial establishments
for the protection of producers and to protect domestic consumption
by maintaining reasonable price levels.
-ihe Meat board's information activities have been broadened to include
a conplete market news service. Market reporters record sales of live-
stock by grade and price at all livestock terminal markets. This and
other information is disseminated in a daily report. The Board pub-
lishes quarterly data or. exports, an annual review with detailed
statistics on livestock and meat products, as well as a bi-monthly
magazine of general interest. The Board also estimates the
availability of steers for export by inspections and contacts with
producers in tihe major fattening areas. The Board now has a large
staf£ to man its wide scope of activities.  Its main source of income
is from a half of 1% levy on all final sales of slaughter cattle,
sheeo and hogs.



ANNEX 1
Page 26
should be taken promptly to establish an effective information service to
provide the meat plant industry and livestock producers with timely data
as to prices, quantities marketed and in prospect, and foreign sources of
demand.
; 30    Training and Technical Assistance Needs.  In general, most
ineat plants provide only on-the-job training, both for workers and super-
visory employees. The larger establishments indicated that they could see
the need for special training programs ana one or two have attempted to
meet such needs.
3.31      All meat plants require the help of internationally qualified
technical experts to improve their layout and operating efficiency. This
need is particularly great where new facilities are contemplated in ex-
pectation of expanded operations. A number of meat plants will require
specialized industrial engineers to plan and advise on the installation
of cooking, canning and by-products usage. Also needed are mechanical,
chemical, electrical and refrigeration engineers. Several meat plants
will need killing floor technicians and supervisors. Others need techni-
cians to help improve efficiencies in the entire slaughter and processing
system. Officials of several meat plants wish to observe and study the
operations of some modern, efficient meat packing operations in the U.S.
or other countries.
3.32      Demand Patterns.  The changing demand patterns for beef, both in
Uruguay and in its traditional export markets, is now recognized by the meat
trade in Uruguay. Factors contributing to these changes are production of
beef from dairy animals; the reluctance of consumers in many countries to
accept fat beef; the maturing of cattle at a younger age; quotas, levies
and tariffs and other restrictions on beef exports to various markets; and
the trend toward more convenience-type meat cuts. The strong demand for
high quality beef with minimum fat content in the U.S., U.K. and throughout
continental Europe, including the Mediterranean countries, is expected to
continue. This changing pattern of demand for Uruguay's beef exports is
estimated in Appendix 19.
3.33      Also, the type of preparation required for beef products has been
changing materially in some markets, especially for boneless beef. This



ANNEX 1
Page 27
trend has developed partly to reduce weight and bulk and partly to reduce
the danger of foot and mouth disease (FMD). 1/
3.34      Australia was the earliest pioneer in the boneless beef trade.  More
recently, however, other Commonwealth countries, particularly the African
countries, have entered the competition. Packaging and preparation techniques
in these countries are considered very good and the meat has other advan-
tages, including thae fact thar it -s exceptionally lean. In 1966, with
higher levies prevailing in the European Common Markets, competition for the
U.K. market increased further with the introduction of some home-produced
boneless beef (prit.cipally forequarter meat) and cuts from Ireland and New
Zealand.
The Plan of Action
3.35      Government, recognizing the vital need to proceed quickly, but
cautiously, in setting policies and programs for the modernization of this
complex industry, has set itself the task of preparing a comprehensive
Plan of Action for its reconstruction. The Plan of Action has been prepared
in March 1970 under the directiont of the Minister of Industry and Commerce
and the Minister of Agriculture, working jointly. Full-time staff were
designated to prepare the groundwork. An integral part of the Plan of Action
are detailed recommendations regarding the further feasibility work for the
raodernization program,
3.36      Government forwarded terms of reference to the IBRD for the
individual specialis;7s they engaged and they were found acceptable. The
main work of these specialists as outlined in these terms of reference 2/
w4as to:
1j   In 1968, the Duke of Northumberland led a U.K. mission to review,
among otther matters, policy as to beef and mutton imports from countries
where FMD is endemic. As a result of this mission's report, the U.K.,
fErom October 1, 1969, banned all imports of bone-in beef and mutton,
as well as all uncooked offal, from Uruguay, Argentina and Brazil.
Currently, Uruguay's export meat plants do not have sufficient boning,
chilling and freezing capacity to shift over quickly to meet the bone-
out requirement. Argentina has been developing this capacity for over
' yea:-s in anticipation of sjch a requirement, and thus has a substan-
tial lead into this rapidly evolving market. If Uruguay can reorganize
its works and achieve the capability relatively soon, such a bone-out
-equirement will, in the long run, have a substantial impact on value
added to mreat exports. Total receipts for bone-out meat would increase
15 to 20% over those for carcass exports.
2/   Translated Spanish to Englishi.



ANNEX 1
Page 28
(a) review current standards of hygiene at processing plants and
assist the Government in the formulation of policies and es-
tablishment of standards for the formation of an effective and
independent Government meat inspection service;
(b) evaluate the current status and capabilities of meat exporting
plants (particularly their equipment, cold storage facilities
and layouts) in Uruguay from the standpoint of their ability to
meet changing patterns of demand for various types of beef pro-
ducts and to continue to supply Uruguay's traditional markets
as well as new markets for beef products;
(c) review current operations and capabilities at the main
plants supplying the domestic market;
(d) review current tax, credit, labor and supply monopoly policies
in the meat industry, including an evaluation of the current
status of the support services furnished by Government agencies
and their future needs, especially in the marketing field;
(e) evaluate the needs for short- and medium-term loans, technical
assistance and investment in the modernization and expansion
of meat processing plants to bring these in line with Inter-
nationally acceptable standards of hygiene, regain former
markets lost by Uruguayan beef producers, supply the varying
needs of new markets for Uruguayan beef and also raise current
standards of operational efficiency in the beef industry; and
(f) recommend to the Committee a Plan of Action to raise the
efficiency of the meat industry and a tentative investment
program for the forthcoming 5 years that would raise process-
ing plants to international standards under such a Plan.
They are also to assist the Government in drawing up terms of
reference and a plan of operation for the detailed feasibility
studies for the improvement of this industry.



URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT ER'OJECT
Production from Improved Pastures, 1961- 1975
(l961-196b and estimates, 1969-1975)
Bef ore
Year          1961     61     62      63     64      65     66      67     68      69     70      71     72      73      74     75
Imroved Pastures
Per Y..,                                             128      18     24      32     68      91    130    145    225    250    250    250    250    250    250    250
Stage of Improved Pastures, year 2                  -       -     18      24     32     68      91    130    145    225    250    250    250    250    250    250
It    n             i           3                 -              -      18     24     32      68     91    130    145    225    250    250    250    250    250
it  PI       ,,       ,,     n                        -          -       -     18     24      32     68      91    130    145    225    250    250    250    250
it  et    n         tt          5 cumulated    128    128    128    128    128    146    170    202    270    361    491    636    861  1,111  1,361  1,611
Tota)l Improved Pasture cumulated                   128    146    170    2C2    270    361    491    636    861  1,111  1,361  1,611  1,861  2,111  2,361  2,611
Total Improved Pastures I. 14.2 a ha 1/,%           .9    1.0    1.2    1.4    1.9    2.5    3.5    4.5    6.1    7.8    9.6   11.3   13.1   14.9   16.2   18.4
… _________________ '000 metric tons ______________________
Extra Liveweight ) 40 kg in year 311                                          1       1      1      3       4       5      6       9     10      10     10      10      10
Per ha            ) 75 kg in year 4                                                   1      2      2       5       7     10      11     17      19     19      19     19
Improved Pasture )100 kg in year 5                     13     13      13     13     13      15     17      20     27      36     49      64      86    111    136    161
Total Extra Liveweight each year                     13    13     13       14     15      18     22      29     39      52     69      91    115    140    165    190
Liveweight Output Without improved Pastures31         568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568    568
Liveweight Output With Improved Pastures              581    581    581    582    583    686    590    597    607    620    637    658    683    708    733    758
Estimated Meat Output With Improved Pastures-        291    291    291    291    292    293    295    298    304    310    319    329    342    354    367    379
Actual lAat Output With Improved Pastures               -    277    267    296    381    310    253    252    298          -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Difference (-) Between Estimated and Actual Meat             (14)   (24)   ( 5)  (11)    17    (42)   (46)    (6)
Outpat
Human Population, I000                                    2,574  2,612  2,469  2,682  2,720  2,750  2,770  2,800  2,836  2.873  2,911  2,940  2,989  3,ot8  3,067
Cemewption per capita per year, kg                            81      69     75      81     78     67      68     69      67      67     67      67     67      67     67
Total Consumptiorn, '000 tons                                209    181    198    218    213    184    187    193    190    192    195    198    200    203    205
Export Availability of Carcass Meat, '000 tons                68      86     98    163      97     69      66    105    120    127    134    144    154    164    174
1/  Total area used for beef production.
/  No increase in production from breeding herd on improved pastures in years 1 and 2.
§/  14.2 million ha x 40 kg beef (liveweight) per ha.                                                                                                                  b1
i/ 50% dressing percentage for carcass nsat.
C- indicated below-average fattening year.
Source: IBEd Staff iitimates.
March 4, 1970






URIUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK D-IEL9PMENT PROJECT
Selected Agricultura'i Statistics   1966
Permanent
HJ                                                        Total     Percentage   Used for        Unimproved   Artificia)  Number of
Size G    lirOldings    Nuiber of   Percentage      ha            of       Livestock       Pastures      Pastures-/  Cattle        Sheep
H           (beA)              1arms        of Total    (lx 1,000)   Total    £~~Qais(x I L30)                   (x 1,000)  (x 1,000)   (x 1,000)
\0
o          1 -  14            11,035          13.93         29.9         0.18         14.8             12.4         0.4          22.7         16.4
5 -  9             12,418          15.68        83.6         0.50          40.6            33.3         1.4           45.7        41.9
10 - 19             12,563          15.86        173.7        1.05          97.0             79.0         3.5          38.2       104.5
20 - 49             13,848          17.49       432.9         2.62         291.3            242.2        7.1         212.3        389.4
50 - 99              8,299          10.48        584.7        3.54         448.9           373.0         11.3         287.0        722.1
Sub-total         58,163          73.44     1,304148        7.89         892.6           739.9        23.7       _6059        1,274.3
100 - 199             6,880           8.69        969.2         5.86        786.1            667.7        19.8         449.0     1,347.8
200 - 499             6,808           8.60     2,148.2        12.99       1,850.9         1,616.8        46.5          987.4     3,238.8
500 - 999             3,476           4.39      2,458.4       14.87       2,250.4          2,005.3        49.9      1,206.1      3,873.5
Sub-total         17,164          21.68     5,575.8        33.72       4,887.4         4,289.8       116.2       22 642.5     8,460.1
1,00O- 2,499            2,654           3.35      4,123.5        24.94      3,875.7          3,464.6        80.9       2,096.0      6,110.2
2,500 -          84,099 858             1.13     3,048.8        18.44       2,897.5          2,630.3        46.0      1,543.7      4,181.7
5,C:C0 - 9,999            260           0.33     1,717.3        10.39       1,633.0         1,441.7         30.7         865.7     2,182.3
lO,GO0 -ld up               54           0.07        763.4         4.62         714.8           590.8        16.3         383.7        869.9
Sab-total            2             1.73     5,529.5         33.45      5,245.3          4,662.8        93.0       2,793.1      7,233.9
Gr.7nd Total      79,193         100.00    165336         lCO.GO      1 14501.0 2/    13,157.1        313.8       8,187.5     23,078.5
F Doos not inclu D 22 6,00 ha of other improved pastures.
IJ Iiclude3 700,000 ha of unproductive land.
Soui'ce:  Mini:try of Livostock and Agriculture: Censo Ccncral Agrol-ectiario 1966.






U R U G U A Y
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOHMENT PROJECT
Production, Consumption and Exports of Beef, 1951-1968
% of Production    Consumption
Animals Slaughtered (x 1,000)        Production (x 1,000 tons)      Average Carcass       going Into          per
o  Year    Consumption   Exports      Total    Consumption   Exports   Total  Weight (kg)         Domestic Consumption  Capita
(kg)
1951         995        492       1,487          187         112      299         200                 62.5            84.o
1952         973        348       1,321          189          79      268         202                 70.5            83.6
1953         923        509       1,432          184         111      295          206                62.3            80.2
1954         875        291       1,166          183          63      246          211                74.3            78.6
1955         867        167       1,034          184          35      219          211                84.0            77.9
1956         880        278       1,158          190          62      252          217                 75.4           79.3
1957         951        269       1,220          188          56      244          200                 77.0           77.4
1958         891        166       1,057          200          39      239          226                 83.7           81.2
1959         863        220       1,083          194          52      246          227                 78.8           77.6
1960         878        375       1,253          191          88      279          222                 68.4           75.3
1961         941        298       1,239          209          68      277          223                 75.4           81.2
1962         868        402       1,270          181          86      267          210                 67.8            69.3
1963         932        429       1,361          198          98      296          217                 66.9           74.9
1964       1,099        686       1,785          218         163      381          213                 57.2           81.3
1965       1,147        457       1,604          213          97      310          193                 68.7            78.3
1966         833        274       1,107          184          69      253          228                 72.7            66.9
1967         881        270       1,151          187          66      253          219                 73.9            67.5
1968         929        431       1,360          193         105      298          219                 64.8            68.9
1969       1,864        546       1,410          190         120      310          220                 61.3            67.0
Source:  Banco Central and Mission Estimates.
IIW






m                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~U R U G U A Y
P                                             THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVEIOFMENT PROJECT
Value of EXPOrbs 1956-1965
(UE*    I ion)
°                        1956    1958    1960    1961    1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968
Wool
Greasy                               33.5    73.6    49.8    50.0    28.3    61.6    46.0    46.3    47.0
Scoured               3. 11.6    12.0                  8.6     8.4      7.0     7.8      9.0     6.8     5.5
Tops                          .      21.7    24.3    23.2    26.6    32.2    20.9    29.3    25.8    25.5
Total         131.0    97.0    66.8   109.9    81.6    85.0    67.5    90.3    84.3    78.9    78.0
_~
Beef
Chilled              *                8.3     5.7      3.7    U.0    13.3       7.0      5.8     3.8     9.0
Frozen                .       -      13.1    11.0    16.0    10.3    43.6    32.0    25.2    27.5    37.9
Corned                                6.4      7.3     8.2     7.6      6.6     5.2      2.8     2.3     5.0
Otherl                -               2.9     3.4      3.5     4.5    10.9    16.7    11.4       6.8     8.4
Total          22.0    15.0    30.8    27.4    31.4    33.4    74.3    60.9    45.2    40.4    60.3
- 4
Hides and Skins       16.0      9.0    15.9    16.8    17.3    17.6    17,5    15.9    17.E    14.4    16.5
Other Agricultural
Products           ) 47.0    34.0       7.9    13.2    14.7    20.6       9.7    15.4    24.4    13.4       7.2 )
Other Products     )   a'       -       8.1      7.5     8.4     8.6    10.0      8.7    14.2    11.5    17.  ))
Total                216.0  155.0   129.4   1714-   153.4   165.2   179.1   191.2   185.8 l5.6   179.2
1/ Includes lamb and mutton.
Source: Banco de la Republica.






ANNEX 1
Appendix 5
URU GUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
Incidence and CofmDosition of Taxation-Livestock Sector, 1968
(Ur$ million)
A. Composition
Export Taxes,Beef and Wool                              7,751
Real Estate Tax
(on average Ur$1 00 per ha)                            1,300
Primary Education Tax                                     125
"Patrimonio'" Tax                                         423
Land Concentration Tax                                    210
Agricultural Transactions  Tax                            378
Surtax                                                      6
Personal Income Tax                                        96
Tax "Industry and Commerce"                                73
Tax Frigorifico Nacional                                   61
Pension Fund and Family Allowances Tax                    370
Total                                       10,793
B. Incidence (1968)
Gross Domestic       Total
Product           Taxes        Incidence
Total Gross
Domestic Product            343,ooo          48,337           14.1
Agriculture                  41,978          12,476           29.7
Livestock Sector          (31,530)        (10,793)         (34.2)
Other Agriculture         (10,448)        ( 1,683)         (16.1)
Non-Agriculture             301,022          35,861           11.9
Source: Movimiento Nacional de Entidades Agrarias:  Presion Tribut aria
Sobre El Sector Agropecuario; and Staff Estimates.
January 16, 1970






ANNEX 1
UR U G UA r                                              Annendix 6
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEMIDOPM!RT PROJECT
Comparative Breakdown of Agricultural Machinery Prices, May 1969-
Four Different WmPorting  Regimes
IDirect  m-
through      ports by           Imported         Imported by
Normal       Cooperatives       through the      Rice and
Importing        and            Plan Agro-       Tobacco
Channel      Final Users        pecuano          Producers
1.  F.O.B. Value                                          1,000.00      1,000.00           1,000.00         1,000.00
2.  Freight and Insurance                                   100.00        100.00             100.00           100.00
3.  Consular Fees - 13% of F.O.B. Value                     130.00        130.00                   -                -
(decrees 2/12/65 and 15/6/61)                       _
4.  C.I.F. Value  (including Consular Fees)               1,230.00      1,230.00           1,100.00         1,100.00
5.  Commission Banco de la Republica                         12.30         12.30              12.30            12.30
(= 1% of C.I.F. value of $1,230.00)
6.  Additional Charges Banco de la Republica                  6.15              -                  -                -
(= 0.5% ofCLF value; law 9/2/67)
7.  Private Bank Tax                                         36.90         36.90              36.90            36.90
(= 3% of $1,230.00; law 13,L20)
3.  Exchange Dealer's Commission                             18.45         18.45              18.45            18.45
(= 1.5% of $1,230.00)
9.  Customs, Port and Unloading Charges (includes           221.40        221.40             121.00           168.3)
for the first two categorie4 $100.40 additional
cnarges; decree 96/967 and law 13,637, article
173/181)                                                    _
Sub-total                                  1,525.20      1,519.05           1.288.65         1,335.95
10.  Sbamp Tax and Professionals' Retirement Fund             70.13              -                  -                -
Surcharge (respectively, 1.8% and 1% of the
final sales price of $2,504.70)
11.  Tfotal,Gross Importer and Distributor Profit            509.47        246,ooY             220.001/         220.001/
Gross Importers' Profit                          (234.91)         (.)                (.)              (.)
Distributors' Margin                             (274.56)         (.)                (.)              (.)
12.  Financing Charges (3 years' supplier credits)           172.20              -                  -                -
Sub-total                                  2,277.00      1,765.05           1,508.65         1,555.95
13.  Sales Tax (10%; law 13,637)                             227.70              -                  -                -
Grand Total                                2,504.70       1,765.05           1,508.65        1,555.95
1/ Agreed upon margin of 20% applied to the C,7. value (including consular fees); line 4.
Source: Agricultural Machinery Importers Association and Staff Estimates.
January 16, 1970






U R U G U A Y
ANNEX 1
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVE NOPME3T PROJECT                   Appendix 7
Cormarative Breakdown of Prices of Agricultural Machinery Parts,
May 1969; lmported Under Three Different Surcharge Systems
(US$)
Parts 150%
Parts 10%        Parts 90%        Surcharge
Surcharge       Surcharge        Category
Caegory'        Category          (Pistons)
1.  F.0.B. Value                                 100.00           100.00          100.00
2.  Consular Fees (13%)                           13.00            13.00           13.00
3.  Freight and Insurance                          8.00             8.00            8.00
4. C.I.F. Value                                  121.00           121.00          121.00
5. Banco de la Republica                          13.92           110.72          203.42
Surcharge                               (12.10)(10%)   (108.90)(90%)  (201.60)(150%)
other Charge(lf  of C.I.F. value)        (1.82)           (1.82)          (1.82)
6. Private Bank Charges                           16.03            16.03           16.03
(interest,10.25%; tax,3% of C.I.F. value)
7.  Exchange Dealers' Cormission                    4.46            4.146           4.46
(3.69% of C.I.F. value)
B.  Customs and Port Charges                       47.73           47.73           47.73
(% of C.I.F. value)
Customs:  Taxes 18%                     (21.78)          (21.78)         (21.78)
Port:     Taxes 12%                     (14.52)          (14.52)         (14.52)
Other Charges    9.45%                  (11.43)          (11.43)         (11.43)
9.  Cost to Importer                             202.96           299.94          392.64
10.  Estimated 20% Profit                          24.20            24.20           24.20
Margin (20% of the C.I.F. value)                              -
Total:                                       227.16           324.14          416.84
11.  Sales Tax 10%                                 22.72            32.41           41.68
12.  Charge (1%) for University Professors'
Retirement Fund                                2,27             3.24            4.17
13.  Stamp Tax (1.8%)                                4.09            5.83            7.50
14. Estimated Final Price of the Part             256.24           365.62          470.19
Source: Agricultural Machinery Importers Association and Staff Estimates.
January 16, 1970






ANNEX 1
Appendix 8
URUGUAY
TH'IRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Consumption and Subsidies.,1961-1969
(000 tons)
Total Sub-    Subsidies
sidies on      in Real
Year      N       P205    K20       Total      Phosphates     Termsl/
(Ur$ million)  (Ur$ million)
1961     4.5      19.6    3.2       27.3           17.7
1962     6.7      21.3    4.5       32.5           25.9          25.9
1963     7.3      22.0    4.0       33.3           27.5          27.5
1964    10.5      26.3    5.1       41.9           43.6          30.3
1965    10.0      28.2    5.1       43.3           44.2          21.4
1966     6.o      35.1    3.9       45.o          140.9         25.3
1967     7.1      31.2    3.0      41.3           154.1         22.9
1968    14.7      49.6    7.4       71.7          232.0         18.4
1969     ..        .,       ..       ,.           464.o          20.7
1/ Subsitd payments have been deflated by the index of fertilizer prices.
Source: Honorary Commission and Staff Estimates.
January 16, 1970






ANNEX 1
Appendix 9
URUGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Breakdown of Hyverphosphate Price, 1969
(metric ton)
Ur         US
L          $
1. C.I.F. Cost:  US$22 per ton
a Ur$250  -                                         5,500.00    22.00
2. Port Charges
(6% of CJF.value, plus Ur$525)                       855.00      3.42
3. Bank Comdissions
(2 ½A of CIF. value)                                 137.50      o.55
4. Import License Tax (1% of C.I.F. value)                      55.00     0.22
5.  Unloading Charges, Transportation Costs and Unloading
Losses                                              1,338.00     5.35
Raw Material Cost to Factory:                                7,885.50    31.54
6.  Processing Costs (excluding profits)                     1,700.00     6.80
7.  Sales Costs (including interest charges)                1,250.00      5.00
Factory Price (exclusive of profits and taxes)             10,835.50   143.31
8. 1% Tax on Sales (item 1)         124.00
9. 1.8% Stamp Tax (item 11)         223.20
10.  1% Tax on Subsidy (item 12)      40.50                     387.70     1.55
Sub-total                                                  11,223.20    44.89
Factory Profit                                               1,177.00     4.70
11.  Total Fertilizer Cost                                   12400.20    49.59
12.  Government Subsidy                                       4,o50.oo    16.20
13.  Final Price to Farmer                                    8,350.20    33.39
Source:  AGROMA1
January 16, 1970






ANNEX 1
Appendix 10
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELPffENT PROJECT
Relative Composition of Consumer Exnpenditures, 1962
(Montevideo)
Percentages
Food                                  -                54.0
Drinks                           5.5
Meats                           11.4
Beef and Beef Products  8.8
Chicken                  2.0
Fish                     o.6
Other                           37.1
Clothing                                               11.4
Housing                                                13.6
Other                                                  21.0
Total                                             100.0
Source: Direccion General de Estadistica y Censo.
January 16, 1970






URUIIGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVhLOPMENT PROJECT
Evolution of Costs of 'elected Inputs, 1962 - 1969
General
Cost of Inputs per Ha 1.'       Price Index Inputs, 1962=100     Consumer           Price Index Inputs
Year                                                                            Prices Index,      Deflated by General
Seeds  Fertilizer  Total          Sesds   Fertilizer   Total      1962=160         Consumer Prices  Index
1962             42.2      85.4   127.6           100.0    100.0    100.0           100.0                 100.0
1963             50.0      85.4    135.4          118.5    100.0    106.1           119.2                  89.0
1964             67.3    144.1   211.4            159.5    168.7    165.7           169.7                  97.6
1965             98.6    206.1   304.7            233.7     241.3    238.7           265.7                 89.8
1966            486.6    557.2  1,043.6         1,153.1    652.5    818.1           460.9                 177.5
1967            567.3    672.0  1,239.3         1,344.3     786.9     971.2          872.14               111.3
1968            635.3  1,260.0  1,895.3         1,505.5   1,475.h  1,485.3        1,965.9                  75.6
1969          1,082.0   2,240.0  3,322.0        2,564.0  2,623.0   2,603.4         2,288.4                113.8
1/  Prices of seeds and fertilizer prevailing in the March/April period:  qpantities of seeds and
fertilizer used obtained frnm analysis of 2,189 farm development plans prepared in the fall of
1968: 6.6 kg of seeds per ha and 280 kg of fertilizer.
Source: Plan Agropecuario (Input Costs);
Direccion General de Estadifsticas y Census (General Consumer Prices' Index);
and Staff Sstimates.                                                                                                I_






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cg                                            Evolution of Farm Output Value and Farm Prices,1962 - 1969
c0\   year               Output Prices" (Ur$ per              Value of Average Output per Ha-/           Index Value of Average Output per Hai/
Fl                    Beef      Matton         Wool           Beef     Matton      Wool   Total           Beef       Mutton      Wool        Total
o     1962            1.653      1.293         8. O6           68.8       9.9      37.0    115.7          100.0       100.0      100.0        100.0
1963           1.536       1.082        8.670           63.9        8.7     40.0    112.6           92.9        87.9       108.1         97.3
1964           1.773       1.336       12.251           73.8       10.7     56.6    141.1          107.3       108.1       153.0       122.0
1965           2.979       2.776       17.220          123.9       22.1     79.5    225.5          180.1       223.2       214.9       194.9
1966           5.607       5.819       27.210          233.3       46.6    125.6    405.4          339.1       470.4       339.5       350.4
1967          11.308       8.613       51.880          470.4       68.9    239.5    778.8          683.7       696.0       647.3        673.1
1968          14.640      11.997       75.000          609.0       96.0    346.3  1,051.3          885.2       969.7       935.9        908.6
1969          30.690      25.150      125.000        1,276.7      201.2    577.1  2,055.0        1,855.7    2,032.3    1,559.7       1,776.1
1/  Montevideo market prices-
:/  Average outpat per ha: 41.6 kg of beef (liveweight), 5.2 kg of wool (equivalent to 4.617 kg of
first grade wool) and 8 kg of mutton.
3/ With prod-action vo1Lme constant over the period, this index also represents the output prices.
Source:  Plan Agropecaario and Staff Estimates.






UP-JGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK ]EVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Farm Input/Output ?rice Relationships 51962 - 1969
Index      Index Value  Index of Iinrove-         Total         Value of
H                       Cost of Inputs per Ha                      Inprovement  of Average  raent Costs Divrided  Improvement          Average       Number of Ha
so  Year    _                                                       Costs per   Output per        by Output          Costs per         Output       Production, Needed to
Seeds    Fertilizer   Sub-total   Otherl/  Total          Ha            Ha            Returns              Ha            per Ha         Improve 1 Ha
7(1)        (2)   -(3)=(2)+(1)   (4)  (5)=(73)+(4)    (6)           (-7)7         (o)=(6)/(7)              (9)            (lo)           (11)=(9)(1o
1962      42.2         85.4        127.6     145.2      272.8      100.0        100.0         100.0                 272.8           115.7         2.4
1963      50.O         85.4        135.4     173.1      308.5      113.1          97.3        116.2                 308.5           112.6          2.7
1964      67.3        144.1        211.4     246.5      457.9      167.8         122.0        137.5                 L57.9           141.1         3.2
1965      98.6        206.1        304.6     385.7      690.3      253.0         194.9        129.8                 690.3           225.5         3.1
1966     486.6        557.2     1,0o3.9      669.1   1,713.0       627.9         350.4        179.2               1,713.0            405.4        4.2
1967     567.3        S72.0     1,239.3   1,266.3   2,505.6        910.5         673.1        136.5               2,505.6           778.8          3.2
1968     635.3      1,260.o     1,895.3   2,887.2   4,782.5   1,753.1            908.6        192.9               4,782.5         1,051.3          4.5
1969   1,082.0      2,240.0     3,322.0   3,322.0   6,6h.L.0   2,435.1         1,776.1        137.1               6,644.0         2,o55.0          3.2
1/  Labor and other input costs.  Data from 1969 originate from Plan Agropecuario calculations;
1962-1968 data are obtained by deflating the 1969 figure by tne General Consumer Prices Index.
Source:  Plan Agropecuario and Staff Estimates.                                                                                                                   _






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMEWT PROJECT
c,
Index Conaumer Beef Prices, Prices of Farm Outputs and Cross Indexes
97 
(1962   100)Y
FJ
all                                                                                                        General Consumer Price Index
Index    Index Con-            General                   Price Index Farm Oatputs           Price Index Farm Outputs
\0            Beef Oatpat suner Beef           Consumer
°                Prices     Prices   (1)/(2) Price Index (2)/(4)         Beef   Mutton   Wool   Total        Beef Mutton  Wool  Total
Year        (1)         (2)       (3)        (4)        (5)        (6)      (7)      (8)    (9)         (10)   (11)   (12)   (13)
1962         100.0       100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
i963           92.9      117.1      79.3      119.2      98.2         92.9    87.9   108.1    97.3    128.3  135.6  110.3  122.5
1964         107.3       195.0      55.0      169.7    114.9        107.3   108.1   153.0   122.0    158.2  157.0  110.9  139.1
1965         180.1       343.7      52.4      265.7    129.4         180.1   223.2   214.9   194.9    147.5  119.0  123.6  136.3
1966         339.1       591.2      57.4      460.9    128.3         339.1   470.4   339.5   350.4    135.9   98.0  135.8  131.5
1967          683.7      998.4      68.5      872.4    114.4         683.7   696.0   647.3   673.1    127.6  125.3  134.8  129.6
1968          885.2    2,196.2      40.3    1,965.9    111.7         885.2   969.7   935.9   908.6    222.1  202.7  210.1  216.4
1969       1,855.7    2,373.7       78.2    2,288.4    103.7       1,855.7 2,032.3 1,559.7 1,776.1    123.3  112.6  146.7  128.8
Source:  Plan Agropecuario, Government Statistical Office and Staff Estimates.






URUGUAY
THIRD LTVESTOCK DEVEtOPMNT PROJECT
Prices and Price Indexes of Beef, Poultry and Fis4 1962-1969
Ii                                            (December Prices - August 1962   100)
General Con-        Index          Index           Index        Price per kg        Chicken/Beef  Fish/Eef
4  Year         sumer Price Index  Beef Prices  Poultry Prices  Fish Prices  S        rteak Cicken  Fish  Prices      Prices
3                                  _        .
1962               102.2            111.0         126.7           100.0       7.7    16.2    4.8      210.0         62.0
1963               146.8            137.3         133.3           100.0       9.3    13.5    4.8      145.0         52.0
1964               198.8            252.8          215.4          145.2      17.3    26.2    6.9      151.0         40.0
1965               373.8            501.2          378.8          326.1      35.4    46.0  15.5       130.0         44.0
1966               558.3            636.5          522.1          326.1      45.9    69.o  15.5       150.0         34.0
1967             1,317.0          1,810.8       1,809.8           694.3    128.0   225.2   33.0       176.0         26.0
1968             2,190.4          2,376.3        2,052.2        1,1472.7    160.0   256.0   70.0      160.0         44.0
1969 - March     2,288.4          2,373.7        2,085.7        1,472.7        .,
Sources Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos and Staff Estimates.
:6'p






0a U3 a OAT
THIRD L725STDCX_7l00 1   V09     PROECT
orglrfleooo    OTOO oA'64Ali Oormn  P   CnSnalt196 .n  Pur2F6=eo
BCBs-   -                          ~~~~~~~~F R I a 0 R I Y I C 0 S
1'dinidoal Plaot Data                          Ooiooal       Altigao      V1i1ori0       Oor.oo     ao'ooo       Carnoo    Co -.loe        Sod A-ricaOo   Cr__ del Sr  TacuarSubo    oloni    Uodadea    Sao' Jc.to  Fray bNotot
A. R3l1ti1  i.e ad C,cnd1itio
Total Sla.Ught. r, 1960
Cattle -nd C.l1-e (hood)            267,306      172,971       50,746        16,359      67, 324      65,160       49,202         44 091         27,499       18 gas       17,8C5       13,027       8,505        64,049
Sh-p( nd LI    @se0d)               1l,950          -             -        124,292      213,512      105,982      162 68h         32,578        127,761       41,768        6,224       17,061      39,498
nogo (h.ad)                           1,896        4,786          .            -           -           1,680         -            1,494                          -            -             228        -
Slaug1ht-r Capkity (8 hr_*)
latth. (he,d)                         1,800        1,300          600           200         500          500          350            200            450          240          250           2bo        250         1,400
3Sneep ncdLa8s  (h-ed)                h, Om           -          3,003        2,0C0       2,500        1,200        2,000            800          1,500          900        1,000           300      1,200           -
Hlbt1r of 1,plpoyo
In Pl"at                              2,391        2,300          b.5           100         45o          422          225            400            323          360          109           120         80         1,317
0ff ice (moathly pay)                 1.259          300           b3            11          40           80           25             25             17           26           2.1           15         10           125
Total:                                3,650         2,600          493          111         490          500          250            4.25           340          386          120           135         90         1,452
covdidoo of P1ant
Soal.1 -5                            4 - 5          4 - 5        3   4         1  2        2 -3         1 - 2        1._2             2             2           1 - 2          1 -2        2 -3         2           5
Cosaments                        Very old       Ve2y old      20-25 yoaco   Ibv (2 years)             Vsry good                     Good      Xew(2.3 Y24rs)     Ye Nb.
0.8ds Iprors
B. Anim3l Poa-aha,e, and Orlcing
Moogr phicaa Sorcoa.              al Uruguay   All Vugwv   All Ourgoy   w/r 150 km         h.h.       50% N.    All Orogomy      All            Arua l  0Urgonq  Iterior Urg.  Zbviro-s All UrugW    ITID 100 km  W. 0rigogy
0,roeocage Pooc.h.ed from ProdAcers   100%         100%          100%         100%         95%        1I0%          100%            98%           1/              100%         100%         90%       100%          100%
seasonality of °::haooo
Cattle                           Slight        Slight         No           go           No          No           No              No            No             so            NO           No                     Moderate
21,baep                          le.                                      Y..           Yeo         Teo r.-                   Aug.- D.0.      Ieo         00t - April       Yes          ye         T.*
Peroont 7ia.3t.hd
4.ol- P0orohaoed                      90%         805           8Q%          80%          Most        87%         llbat            90%           2/             80%          Most         INst       40S%          60%-/
Boo. fri.o  Paid -
Ur$ per kg                            35          33            33           31           35          35           35             35                           33             35           35         35            35
Botme for 6:' , 'l-AI
(per 1% 1Wrea.ed yield)              es T          .61        c.61          0.61         Q.60         5.60         9.65           0.61         Ko0e          None             0.65        ;.65        ;.65        T.&
Tio  of 1' ".t (doys)                  45        30-45         30-45        30-45          30         30-45         45            3o-45          45           25-45            45          15-30        30           b5
Would a 'ighor 'rSce
Encoorage -ore 00tp90                Yeo         Tos          Too     Y      e,           T.e        res           Toe,             en         lYea     r      a             Ye            yes         1o,         Toe
1/ Pnoh.... ir  th  ,rket, tomporory.
2/ 86peet to puonhas. 100% iini3hed anim0l. in the foture.
3, 4O% loot.
7/ 40S% 00.
o/ Ti.-            battl-  22a28.
Source: Intervievs by Ii3E4 .       Yt;in,ay-June 1969,                                                                                                                                                                                              |






URtUUAY
THIID LIVMTOCK DEVELOPENT FROJECT
FriUorificon:  Products Mrketed. Inapeetiom Peromnel ao  Export uata
F R ID O R I F IGC OS
Individual Plant Data            Nacional   Artigas      Victoria    Dorazno   Comargen    Carrasco   OeIlones  Sud Americano Cruz,al ,r  Tacuaremoo   Colonia   Codadesa   San Jaointo Fray Bentos
Production, by Toe'
Prodcts - Chilled             X         X            X          X                                              I              I           No           X          X            No           r
Frozen             X         X            X           X         X          X           X            X              r           r            x          r            r            r
Bqneless           No        X             X          I         X          X           X             I             I                        X    x             x
Special omtIs      No        I            I          X          I          I        (Cryovac)x      I                                  (Cxyovac)z      1           1 
Canned             I         I r                     No         No         No          No           No             No          No          No          No          No            X
Cooked (frozen)    No      (To U.K.)  (To U.K.)      No        No          NO          NO           No             No          No           No         No          No            No
Yoat ,xtract      X         X            I          No         No         No        Local          No             No          No           No         No          No            X
Offals             I         I            I          x    x                x           r            x              I           I            I                      x             x
Tallow             XI                         I                            I         Local         Local         Local       Local        Local     Local         Local          I
Blood re al           X         X                                          I         Local           I           Local        No          Local     Local         Local          X
Bone meel          r         I            I          x          No         I         Local           No          Local        No          local        No         Local          r
HideS & skins      r        Local       Local      Local    Local       20% export  Local         Local          Local       Local        Local     Local         Local        Local
Quality of Rides Psuduced
Percent No.1              94%     70-80%       70-80%      70-80%     90%       NA           NA           90%           8%          NA           NA         NA           98%           NA
Co,nat                 First class                                                         Very good                             Very good Very good       No.1                    First class
MSat Inspection 2/
.Goernmnt
Veterinarians                5 p.t.  6 p.t.      2 p.t.        2 p.t.   2 p.t.                   2 p.t.      2 p.t.       2 p.t.        2 p.t.     2 p.t.       2 p.t.      1 p.t.         3 p.t.
A.st. *at Inspectora         6 p.t.   5 p.t.                   2 p.t.   3 p.t.     3 p.t.                                 5 f.t.        2 p.t.                  1 p.t.      1 p.t.         3 p.t.
cw    blaPoyes
Veterinarians                                                                       3 p.t.                   1 f.t.
Aset. VOW#  Ispaet"re       11 f.t.  14 r.t.    6 f.t.        4 f.t.    5           6 f.t.       9 p.t.      6 f.t.                     5 f.t.      7 p.t.      3 f.t.      3 f.t.       10 f.t.
Export Data, 1968
Slaughter for UPflt
Cattle (head)              23,508    172,971   50,746      16,359    67,324       61,885     49,202         35,971      27,499        18,288       16 914        3,699      8,505      64,049
Sheep (head)                    0          0         0     124,292   213,512     103,156    162,684         32,578     127,761        41,768        6,224            0     39,498            0
.  S1hter for Fanort as a
f of Totial  AFter.a
Cattle (5)                    8.8       100       100        100       100          95         100            82          100           100         99.4          28.4       100          100
Sheep (%)                     0            0        0        100       100           97.3      100           100           100          100         100            0          100           0
Ecport Volume (mt)
Total:                     14,000     40,000      2                              15,000      NA             7,000-        7,000 o        6/          N            xi        2,000         Mt
1/  Itelms marked '"ll are productions for both export a-nd local sale.
2/ p.t. - part time, f.t. - full ti1m; veterinarians also responsible for adti-morten inspection of animals and plant inspection for hygienic standards.
'/  Includes 20 million cans (12 oz ) corned beef.
I/ January.April 1969, 6,000 tons exported.
3/  gcpect 14,000 rt in iiture e
Z/  June 69, 700 tons exported.                                                                                                                                                                                   H
7/ Inereased exports, 1969 to 500 mt rer ,onth-                                                                                                                                                                 H
Source:  Interviews by IBRD Mission, may-June 1969.






URONUAY
THIND LIVE'TOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Frigorificos: Needs for Training, Market Information, Credit Transport and Future Operation
F R I G O R I F I C O S
Nacional                 EFGSA                        Comargen    Carrasco    Canelones    Sud-Americano           Cruz del Sur    Tacuarembo        Colonia    Codadesa    San Jacinto  Fray Bfntos
Artigas    Victoria    Durazno
Miscellaneous Informatim
Labor and Training Needs:
Labor Problems 1/                              Yea           Yes           Yes         Yes            No             No           No             No                 No                No              No           No            No           No
Training Programs ) Supervisory                No            No            No          No             No             Yes          No             No                 No                No               Nc           -            On job       Yes
Undertaken         ) Workers                  No            On job        On job      On job         On job        On job        On job         On job             On job            On job          On job       On job       On job
Training Needa                                 Yes           i/             /          2/             _o             3/           No             No                 Yes               No               No          1 or 2       LI
(sup)
Market Information and Representation
Government Information                         Yes 6/        No            No          No             No             Yes (start) No              No                 Nc                 No              No          No            No            Yes 6/
Private Sources                                Yes           Yes           Yes         Yes            No             Telex        IPL            Yes                No                Yes              SLP         Argentina   Yes
Agents Abroad                                  Yes           Yes           Yes         Yes            Yes            Yes          IPL            Yes                INAC              NC                           No            No           Yes
Visits Abroad Each Year                        None          2             2           2              2              2            2              3                  Italy and          Buyer visits   '            None          Visits          -
Local                                                       from
buyers
Export Market Potential                          None           Limited      Limited      c 300%        0 100%         N.A.         a 50%          a 200%              o 100             o <1%           o 50%       o 125%        + 100%        - 35%
Five-Year Plans To:                              Need           New Plant:  Spl. cuts  Cooler,/         Cooking        Canning       Corned Beef  BonIng               Water             Cooked-Drn ed  Cooking      Cooking       Coolers/    All
new           Cooking       Refrig.    Freezers        Canning        Boning       Cooking        Cooking            By-prod.           BonL:ng         By-prod.   Spl. cuts   E'reesers    new
facilities   Canning                    Cooking        SpI. outs    Spl. cuts   By-products  By-products             Boni-g            By-prod.                     Lamb and    Cooked Sec. facilities
Mechanical               Dry beef                                                  Freezerq 2x         Cooking           Pu4er                       Mutton        Canning
Spl. Cuts                 Boning                                                                                                                                   Prod.
Quick freezer            By-Products
Upgrade:                                       Slgtr.                      Slgtr.                     Freeoers       Sigtr. floor                Power              Slgtr.             Y eezers        lquip-                    Slgtir.
Floor                       Floor                                     Equipment                   Slzir.FloCr        Flocq                                                        Floor
Estimated Costs                                                                                                                                    $5e'(, 0                                                                                       $2.5 miiio:
Credit Needs                                     Yes            Yes          Yes          Tes Yes                                    Yes Yes       Yes                  ees                              Yes          YPs           Yes          Yes
Technical Help Needed                            No             Yes                       Yes           Yes(3)         Yes(l )       Yes            Yer?t;             Too               Yeo (11         Yes          Yes           Yes(1 )      Yes
Transport Needs                                                Rail         Rbil                        5 trucks       Rail          Trucks        4 trucko            Trucks            Bail            Trucks
Trucks
1/ Replies referred to 'normal'oonditimns. At time of interviews, there were strike conditions at several fri-crifi10s.
T/ Total of two for the three EFCSA frigorificos.
x/ Exchange training with Anglo (Fray Bentos).
4Epilqying man from  EFCSA who will train othes.,
G/ Gives training to supervisory employees and to some workers; 1slo calls on 'Anglo"(Frey Bentos) for training of machinists. -
i/ These frigorifioos are Gov,rnment-opersted.
Source: Interviews by IBRN  Mission, May-June, 12560.                                                                                                                                                                                                         k
February 23, 1971






URUQ UG A                                                ANNEX 1
THIRD IXVESTOCK DEV=mR        POT JECT                              Appendix 19
(l966-190atul& andf 19c19-1975 estimates)
A. Annual Volume of Beef Exports - 1966-1968 Actual Weights. 1969-1975 Projected Weights
Type of Beef Product                1966      1967     1968      1969      1970      1971     1972      1973      1974     1975
- - - - - - - - -                 '000ons -- - --- - - - - -
Carcass Meat
Chilled                              9         7       18         4         6        8         8         8         8         8
Frozen                              37        44       62        82        74        65       56        19        37       26
Manufacturing
Bone in                              6         2         4        4         5         5        5         5         6        6
Boneless 1/                          5        10        15       18        26        30       39        48        57        66
Special Cuts 1/                      -         -         2        3        14        17       21        23        33        45
Canned 1/                            6         5         1        9         0         5        6         9         9         9
Cooked 'rozen 1/                     -         -         -        -         2         4        9        12        14        214
Other Products,including
O'ffals 2/           5        5         7         8         9       10        10        11       12        13
rotal of all Products                 68        73      115       126       136      141.      12h       165       176      187
Total Carcass Mbat Equivalent         63        68      108       120       127      134       1         154       164      174
1/ To convert to carcass meat equivalent x 1.5.
2/ Offals excluded from total carcass meat equivalent.
B. Annual Value of Beef Exports - 1966-1968 Actual Values, 1969-1975 Estimated Values l/
Average
Product
Type of Beef Product    Value    1966        1967     1968      1969      1970     1971      1972      1973     197.      1975
7         -…7   -uss million - -…- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Carcass Msat
Chilled                 550       5.7       3.8      9.1       2.2       3.3      4.4       4.4       4.4       4.4      4.4
Frozen                  500      18.5      21.9     27.9      41.0      37.0     32.5      28.0      24.5      18.5     13.0
Manufacturing
Bone in                   500       3.6       1.0      1.8       2.0       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       3.0      3.o
Boneless                   800      2.7       6.o       7.0      9.6      13.8     16.0      20.8      25.6     33.4      35.2
Special Cuts              900         -         -        .9      1.8       8.4     10.2      12.6      13.8      19.8     27.0
Canned                    800       2.8       2.4      5.0       4.8         -      2.4       2.0       3.0      3.0       3.0
Cooked Frozen           1,100         -         _         -        -       1.1       2.9      6.6       8.0     10.2      10.2
Other Products            800       7.4       4.0      4.3       6.4       7.2      8.0       8.0       8.8      9.6      10.4
Total                              40.7      39.1     56.o      67.8      73.3      78.9     64.9      90.6     98.9    106.2
1/  F.o.h, Montevideo.  Based on average valuss for 3 years,1966-1968.
Source:    INAC and Mission Estimates.
January 16, 1970






ANNEX 2
Page 1
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plan Agropecuario, Progress Under Loans 245-UR
and 407-UR and Duties, Responsibilities and
Authorities of the Technical Director
A.  Plan Agropecuario
Background
1.        The Plan Agropecuario (Plan) was established in 1959 to provide
technical services to participating Project ranchers. It helps farmers
prepare suitable ranch plans, recommends subloans to the Bank of the Repub-
lic (BR) and provides technical advice during the disbursement period.
The Plan also provides some extension services and supports applied research
in pasture development and pasture seed production.
Performance
2.        Since 1959 the Plan has successfully demonstrated and promoted
the advantages of establishing improved pasture. It has maintained a
constant lending volume during the very difficult period from 1965 to
mid-1969 when loan size was reduced by factors mainly beyond the control
of the Plan. Overall, the Plan has done its work well. It has a competent
staff and, with organizational changes now in progress, its performance
should improve further.
Management
3.        The Plan is directed by an Honorary Commission of seven members:
a Xl'airmarn, four delegates from the various farmer organizations, one from
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and one from the BR (Figure 1).
Technical Serv'ces
4.        The Technical Staff comprises a Technical Director, about 50
technicians and 11 office staff. The three Technical Directors that have
served since commencement of the Plan have been internationally recruited.
The present Technical Director was a New Zealand professor in Farm M'anage-
ment. The duties of the Technical Director are outlined in para. 18.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The technicians, all university graduates, have a good reputation
for technical competence. They are each equipped with a vehicle and live
in rural centers for better contact witlh the ranchers.
A-countancy
6.        The system of accountancy has been little changed since the Plan
commenced. The accountant is part-time (only a few hours a week) and has
little authority. The bookkeepers lack guidance, and records are not well
kept. A general review of this problem is now underway. A full-time
internationally qualified accountant is being recruited by the Plan to
reorganize its accounting system.
B. Progress Under Loans 245-UR and 407-UR
Loan 245-UR
7.        The First IBRD Livestock Project was designed as a pilot scheme
for a subsequent broader project for the improvement of Uruguay's pastures.
The total project cost was estimated at US$11.1 million - US$9.5 million
for ranch investments in pasture improvements and fencing, water supplies
and machinery; US$1.3 million for machinery and equipment loans to con-
tractors; and US$0.3 million for technical services. The IBRD provided US$7
million (all the foreign exchange), the Government US$1.2 million and the
ranchers US$2.9 million. The IBRD loan was for a period of 12 years with
a 4-year grace period and a 5-1/2% interest rate. Subloans to ranchers
were for terms of 7 years with a 2-year grace period and a 7% interest
rate. The loan became effective on December 2, 1960.
8.        Funds from the IBRD were fully drawn by June 30, 1965 (Tables 1 and
2) (the closing date had been extended by 2 years). The Livestock Fund in
the BR was fully committed in early 1966 and fully disbursed in late 1966.
9.        The proposed average size of loans under 245-UR was US$16,000.
However, from the start, loan sizes were actually much smaller, averaging
about US$7,000 in 1961 and falling to about US$4,000 in 1965. The changes
from the original estimates were mainly due to a reduction in the size of
ranches financed (from an estimated 1,000 ha to about 600 ha) and a scaling
down in the percentage of area of each ranch improved. On the other hand,
more than twice as many loans were made - 1,523 loans as compared to the
600 originally projected.
Loan 407-UR
10.       The Second Livestock Project loan for Uruguay became effective on
December 31, 1965. The loan supported the continuation of the previous
project. The total investment cost was estimated at US$35 million over a
4-year period. Ranch investments amounted to US$27.6 million, technical



ANNEX 2
Page 3
services US$2.2 million, and Government subsidy on fertilizers US$5.2 mil-
lion. Under proposed financing, IBRD was to contribute US$12.7 million
(all the foreign exchange cost), Government US$6.7 million (19%), BR US$4
million (12%) and ranchers US$11.6 million (33%).
11.       The IBRD loan to the Government was for 15 years with a 5-year
grace period and a 5-1/2% interest rate.  Subloans to ranchers were planned
for a 7-year term with a 2-year grace period and a 9% interest rate.
12.       The funds under Loan 407-UR for on-rancn djevelopment were disbursed
by the IBRD faster than anticipaLe6 (Tables 1 and 3), about a year aheae of
schedule.
13.       Loan 407-UR was planned to provide 2,600 ranch loans of US$6,000.
In practice, loan size averaged about US$3,000 in 1966 and fell to just
over US$1,000 in '968. The main reasons were that the individual loan diLs-
bursement period was reduced to 12 months and further reductions occurred
in the size (averago 450 ha) of iaztches receiving loans.  In all, 3,7$(5
loans were made to the end of 1968 and about 4,000 were partly financed
in 1969.  The balance of neec. 6unds for 1969 came from an AID loan aild,
the BR.
14.       Th.e basic reasons for chese changes appear to be a combination of
Government and BR policies. When the Plan Agropecuario was created, a
legislative clause res,tricted the capital resources a rancher could hae
and still be eligi.ble.  These limits were not revised uDwards commensrurze
with the Inigh rstes of inflation. Thi3 meant that larger farmers becamce
ineligible to borrow under the Plan program and that a precedent for lcnd-
ing to medium and small farmers was established, Thus, ranchers, in combi-
natIon holding half the country's grazing area and cattle, were effectively
excluded from receiving ranch improvement loans.  This policy is being
modified under the Third Project.
15.       The or4iaaiL repayMent terms to ranchers for loans under 245-UR
(para 7) were reduced to 4 to 5 years with interest of 9Z by 1965.  In view
of subsequernt inflat-ion and lack of lndexing, such terms, in fact, were
generous _o farmers.  Since then, ter-ms of many loans were steadily shortened
ur.til the,J averaged about 3 years, some even with no grace period in 1968.
For che Third Project, the interest3 rate would be 11%, to be made on an
inde\.ed basis, and loan terms would again be extended to a minimum of 7
y2ars.
16.       risb.irseinents from the IBRD loan accounts exceeded disbursements
to ranche-s a  reoi 1963 to the -nd of 1968.  When the BR counterpart funds are
considered, the lag between ILRD, disbursements and the BR loan disbursements
to participating farmers was about 12 months. The reasons for these lags
were as foll'ows:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(a) substantial amounts of IBRD-disbursed funds were tied up
in fertilizer, seeds, machinery, and such. Originally
this was largely seasonal, with the Plan holding fertili-
zer and seed for about 6 months of each year. Since 1966,
the Plan has increasingly held machinery for longer periods
and the amounts involved were relatively substantial -
US$970,000 in December 1968 (Table 4).   Frequent devaluations
also increased the peso value of goods on hand as compared to
past disbursements;
(b) goods were provided to non-supervised farmers for cash.
This boosted peso funds substantially; and
(c) delays in processing loans discouraged some ranchers from
borrowing. These delays resulted partly from delays by
Government in announcing fertilizer subsidies.
17.       In 1969, IBRD withdrawals, plus counterpart funds, were balanced
with amounts disbursed to Project sub-borrowers for the first time since
1962.
C. Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities
of the Technical Director
18.       The Technical Director shall be responsible to the Honorary Com-
mission and have the technical responsibility for implementation and
execution of the Third Livestock Development Project. He shall have the
following specific duties and powers:
(a) advising the Honorary Commission on major policy decisions
in respect to the Project;
(b) executing the Project in accordance with policies and pro-
cedures agreed to by the Honorary Commission;
(c) cooperating with the management of participating banks
towards accomplishing Project objectives;
(d) training Plan staff as necessary for fulfillment of Project
objectives;
(e) approving or disapproving all ranch/farm development plans
prepared and appraised under the lending program;
(f) following up, supervising and giving technical assistance
as necessary to ensure success of each farm development
plan financed under the Project;



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(g)  advising participating banks through the Honorary Commission
to suspend premature loans when he finds that the farm
development plan for which the loan has been granted is not
being carried out in accordance with the terms of the loan
agreement. He shall inform the participating bank, through
the Honorary Commission, if and when the situation has been
satisfactorily rectified;
(h)  establishing and maintaining farm records for sample farms
as needed for Project evaluation;
(i)  making reconumendations to the Honorary Commission with respect
to:
(1)  remuneration for Plan staff and other compensation
necessary to attract the most qualified personnel
available; and
(ii)  the recruitment, suspension or removal of Plan staff;
(j)  preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports for
submission to the Honorary Commission for transmittal
to the IBRID; and
(k)  guidance to agencies, principally the Estenzuela Agricultural
Research Center, concerned with the preparation and execution
of Project-oriented pasture/beef research work and an improved
seed production and processing scheme.
March 5, 1970






Table I
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEV$PfNT PROJECT
Loans Approved and Paid Out and Withdrawals from IBRD Accounts
---Total Cumulated---           Loans Paid Out as      Withdrawals from
Year   Quarter  Number       Amount           Number           Amount         of End of Period          Loan Account
UrMMOUW                                               (equivalent in pesos
-----------------------------------------_ Loan 245-UR ----------------------------------------------------------
1961      1       47         3,529              47             3,529               508                  --------
2      38          3,249             85             6,778             2,445                  --------
3      13          1,135             98             7,913             3,275                  --------
4      43          3,772            141            11,685             3,923                    408
1962      1       41          3,177            182            14,862             5,520                    518
2      72          5,785            254            20,647            10,043                  3,834
3      48          3,872            302            24,519            12,422                 11,174
4      37          2,912            339            27,431            15,185                 12,763
1963      1       90         6,936             429            34,367            17,661                 26,126
2     102          9,041            531            43,408            22,788                 32,115
3       9            702            540            44,110            27,069                 34,279
4      26          2,728            566            46,838            28,279                 36,035
1964      1      167        11,674             733            58,512            31,038                 53,082
2     115          9,498            848            68,010            37,287                 53,429
3       9            895            857            68,905            45,611                 64,579
4     211         14,489          1,068            83,393            47,988                 84,859
1965      1      286         23,160          1,354           106,554            55,145                 98,506
2      99         10,614          1,453           117,167            65,662                101,333
3-4    27          4,485          1,48o           121,652            72,065                102,616
19661/    1       43         5,600           1,523           127,252            77,099                102,615
2      --           ---           1,489           129,212           101,500                102,615
3-4    --           ---           1,477           128,049           107,954                102,615
19671/    4       --           ---           1,445           126,205           111,011                102,615
19681/    4       --           ---           1,443            125,841           111,061               99,779
-----------------------------------------.Loan 407-UR--------------------------___________________________
1966      1      316         43,295         316               43,295            ---                    126,938
2     269          80,345         585             123,740            37,733                  N/A
3     131          23,026         716             146,766            60,516                 208,132
4      77          23,833         793             170,600            93,056                 285,055
1967      1      363         115,057      1,156              285,657           119,936                 337,135
2     638         193,289       1,794             478,946           227,354                 395,803
3      25          20,114       1,798             496,934           268,099                 395,803
4       1             447       1,797             497,311           293,161                 728,148
196t/    1       780        176,060       2,577             673,371            316,216                 884,748
2   1,005         314,238       3,582             987,609           641,448               1,006,658
3     192          71,692       3,273             953,9)46          817,245               1,234,b72
4       1             355       3,272             828,421           828,421               1,276,522
1/ "Total Cumulated"t figures adjusted because of cancellations and other changes,
January 16, 1970






URUGUAY                                                            A 2052
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plan Agaropec . r io
So-ce  and Application of Fonds   1961-1968 - 215-UR
(Ur$, 0o0)
Dec 31, 1961    Dec 31, 1062    Dec 31, 1963    Dec 31, 196L    Dec 31, 1965    Dec 3:, 1q66    Dec 31, 1967    Dec 31, 1968
SOURCES
onds for Lending
IBRD Loan Disbursenento                                     106           12,763           36,o35          95,95o           102,617          102,617          192,615            09,779
Plan Agropc-ario Bonds                                   7,776            8,017            9,017           M,117             8,017            8,017             8,017            8,0 17
Bank of the Repoblic                                         127            8,750          11,625          11,625            11,727            2q,598           30,517           30,753
Other l/                                                       1                1                1              19                32              105            4,505            4.505
Sub-total                                             3,312          27,531           55,679         10,53             122,372          110,339          1i5,655           L13,058
Additiosal Fpnds Available for Lending
IBRD Loan 245-UR                                          75,490          60,902           SL,826          13,98f                        -                         -                -
Bank of the Repoblic2/                                       -             10,900            5,917          2,209            1,0,3105           8,75'            7,605            7,?23
Bn-k of the Repoblic-                                      3,872            4,        000                     ,00,4,000                        -104 D0,          4,00f           U, .___
Sub-total                                           79,841           75,802           6L,6L3          27,193            19,3LL            12,75i           11,605           11,22,
Fonds Assigned to Expenses of the Plan
245-UR                                                       839            1,130            2,318           2,856             3,750            3,750            3,7i'            3,759
Credits 1957-1962 - Government Contributions               1,763            2,000            2,000           2,000             2,900            1,00             2,000            ,
Credits 1962-1964 - Govern-ent Contributions                 -                350            2,558           6,165              , 273           0,2<             8,27?
Law 11/28/61 Govern7ent Contribotiono                                         -                - _                             1,890            1,136            L,3I6
Low 11/25/OL Government Contrlbntione                        -                -                -               -                ,656              -                -
Sub-total                                            2,602            3.780            6,876          11,022            20,734           18,379            18,37° 0.,7q
Repaseto and Interest fros SBb-loans                           -                -                -               _                 _             ?3,251:          39,729           71,84
Total                                                91,75L         109,11b          127,20L         135,749           192,L55          19b,726           215,367          2a64,.
Deo 31, 19)61    De. 31, 1962    Des 31  1963    Des 31  1964    De_1. 1965    Dc 31, 1?66             ec 31  1367    Dec <   o
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
FiPed Assets                                                   410              79S            1,120           1,702             <,4141           2,1.5            2,45S            ti5-
Loans
Loans Paid Out                                             3,923           15,150           28,278          17,987            77,16) lO7, /                    011,011            1.0il
Loans Appeeved bht not Paid Out                            7,761           12,21S           1,S56,          35,106            49,5             20. 09           i5,1Q3           L>,7V'l
Sppdry Debtor- _                                                              5.972            7,037          35,17U            25,5?6           7 ,1'2           24,453            2,,1,5 .
Plan Agrpecuario Costs                                       2,156            3,733            6,615          10,01.0           1,51             7. 21,           21, 393,             3 c3
Cash on Rand                                                  ,715           12,30<           7,7             i; ,, 7, c                         1.,S._ 16,12c _6,,,t
Additi onal Fpnds not Drawn-V                                ,6<             71,9n3           61,649          16,1;3           14,314?               -                -
Raeep,ento to National Treasor-T                               _                -                _              _                  _             2 1              39727
Total                                                00,750,         T01,81,127,2<                    135,749           1',!,5S          1t,07-7          21S,36; ..   .      , 599
1' Sorolco frpm past-re seed transactions.
2/ Special orking account not otilized oilice 1962.
3'  Balance of Ur$2L,53 transferred to 107-SR.
L/ Fudso allocated to Project bht not held as current accounts.
Sot included in additlons.
Max'ch 4, 1970






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Als   Aroecuarlo
Sources and Application of Fundr-1966-1968 - 407-UR
(Ur$' 000)
Dec 31, 1966    Dec 31, 1967    Dec 31, 1968                                                       Dec 31. 1966    Dec 31, 1967    Dec 31, 1968
SOURCES                                                                                               APPLICATION OF PMIDS
Funds for Lending                                                                                     Fixed Assets                            5,173           11,392           22,038
IBRD Loan Disbursements                 285,055         728,148         1,276,522                   Loans
Bank of the Republir                     17,793           97,925          247,624
Sundry Creditors                            369            2,354           48,456                     Loans Disbursed                      93,056           293,161          828,421
Other                                       599              954           14,178                     Loans Approved but not
Assets Transferred from 24j5-UR             -             24,453           244j53                       Disbursed                          77,544           20,150               -
Sub-total                            303,817         853,834         1,611,234                   Sundry Debtors                         83,475           426,025          543,351
Additional Feds Available for leNd                                                                     Plan Agropecuario                     15,505            51,677          135,766
IBRD Loan 407-UR                        514,933         538,935             3,067                   Cash X Hand                               415             1,298            2,247
Bank of the Republic                     45,823          14l5,311         144,376
Law 11/28/64 (Governmint FEnds)                                                                      F,0 ds not yet Drawn_"               521,833           538,935            3,067
Sub-total                            567,656          684,246          147,443                   Repayment to National Treasury             81             5,616           69,460
Funds Assigned to Plan Expenses                                                                             Total                           892,651         1,607,856        1,973,940
407-UR                                    7,182           12,268           32,7142
La. 11/28/64                             13,91h           51,892           52,106
Law 136.4o                              _                    -             60.955
Sub-total                             21,097           64,160          145,803
Repayment of Principal and Interest
i'rom Sub-loans                              81            5,616           69,460
Total                                892,651       1,607,856         1,973,940
1/  Funds allocated to Project but not held as current accounts.
March 4, 1970






ANNEX 2
Table 4
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELO4ENTT PROJECT
Plan Agropecuario
Details of Account - Sundry Debtors: December 31, 1968 I/
(Ur$t 0X)
Seeds
Imported under Loan 2h5-UR                       24,h53
407-JR                    436,731
Purchased Locally                                87 770
Amount dollected                                266,017               282,937
Fertilizer
Balance of Subsidy                                                     18,012
Machinery
Owned by Importers (machinery for sale)                    56,036
Hield by Plant
Aircraft and equipment (bought 1967
and 1968)                                   72,552
Clover harvesters (bought April 1968) -
will be sold to farmers to encourage
seed production                             35,288
Forage harvesters (bought May 1967)
- leased to farmers                          3,737
Sod-seeders (bought November 1967) -
for sale to farmers                         38,081
Milking machines (bought March 1967)
- expected to be sold via Plan sub-
loans in 1969                               13,719
Tractors (25) (bought January 1968 -
expected to be leased or sold to
contractors                                 21,250
Rolls of Polythene (150) (bought
Sep-tember 1968) - for sale to ranchers
- 31 sold by June 1969                       1.737   186,364
Total Machinery                                                                242,)x01
Total                                                                     54;3,351
1/ Details as of June 1969 were not available but the situation has not changed
appreciably between December 1968 and June 1969.
January 16, 1970






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLAN AGROPECUARIO
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
HONORARY COMMISSION FOR THE
PLAN AGROPECUARIO
SEVEN MEMBERS _/
INCLUDING PRESIDENT
PLUS EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
PRESIDENT
I TECHNICAL       l|ASSISTANT FOR|                                   
l    DIRECTOR  l                     |  ADMINISTRATION             ACCOUNTANT
RANCH BUDGET                                                                          6
AND RECORDS                 REGIONAL TECHNICIANS           CONSULTANTS             CLERKS                             BOOKKEEPERS
STAFF (2)             (5)                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(2)
FIELD TECHNICIANS (52)
1/ THESE MEMBERS ARE:
1. ASOCIACION RURAL DEL URUGUAY
2. FEDERACION RURAL
3. COMISION NACIONAL DE FOMENTO RURAL                                                                                                 C)Z
4. LIGA FEDERAL DE ACCION RURALISTA                                                                                                   IZ
5. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                                                                                                            m
6. BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
7. PRESIDENT OF COMMISSION                                                                                              IBRD - 4673(4)






ANNEX 3
Page 1
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System
A. Introduction
1.        The banking system in Uruguay comprises a Central Bank, the
Government-owned Bank of the Republic (BR) and 42 commercial banks. Of
the latter, six are branches of foreign banks. The remainder are Uruguayan-
owned; four of these are of significant size, both in terms of country-wide
branches and in terms of deposits.
2.        Since 1959 the value of the peso has changed from 3.5 to US$1,
to the present 250 (a 70-fold increase). This inflation has put the bank-
ing system under considerable pressure.
To overcome the effects of inflation and a progressive increase
in overheads, banks have generally adopted the following policies:
(a) increased loan interest to 2 to 4% per month;
(b) reduced loan terms to 3 to 6 months;
(c) switched lending avenues where possible to those of
little risk, quick return and high profitability.
This favors lending to trade and speculative ventures
rather than development; and
(d) indexed development loans (the BR only) made under Plan
auspices (begun in January 1969, see Annex 4).
B. Central Bank and Monetary Policy
4.        The Central Bank was established in 1967 when BR relinquished
its central banking functions, particularly management of the money supply.
The Central Bank now has legal control over credit levels given by the
banking system. The principal function of the Central Bank is monetary
management. It is empowered to regulate legal reserve requirements, fix
discount rates for deposits and credits, approve terms for issuance of
mortgage and debenture bonds and establish deposits for imports. In early
1968, the Central Bank applied severe credit restrictions on the commercial
banks. High reserve requirements were also established, 40% on demand
deposits, 20% on time and 16% on dollar deposits. This policy, together



ANNEX 3
Page 2
with measures mentioned in paragraph 3, resulted in a period of relative
monetary stability but helped create significant short-term credit problems
for the livestock industry, which was cut off from all short-term funds
from BR for 12 months during 1968 and early 1969. This restriction of
funds has now been llfted and the legitimate short-term credit needs of
livestock producers are being met by the BR.
C. Bank of the Republic
5.        The Banco de la Republic Oriental del Uruguay (BR) has been
for many years Uruguay's largest bank. It has been banker to the Govern-
ment and to the rural, industrial and civil service sectors.
Organizatio
6.        There are 71 rural branches and six metropolitan agencies of the
BR, providing facilities to all parts of Uruguay. Policy is determined by
a Board of Directors appointed by the Government. The General Manager
supervises the daily activities of the various departments. (See Figure 1,
Bank of the Republic Organization Chart.)
Financial Operations
7.        The bulk of BR assets and liabilities are either Government or
Government related. Until 1967, when the Central Bank was established,
all Government and Government-related accounts were kept in the BR. Most
of these accounts still remain. Its private sector activities are never-
theless very important, particularly in agriculture and agro-industry.
In addition to the IBRD livestock loans, BR has been the relending agency
for several USAID loans for cereal growing and general-purpose agriculture,
as well as for a number of Inter-American Development Bank loans for
industrial development.
8.        Small profits have been made in each of the last 5 years.  How-
ever, part of the income consists of interest on Government debts, which
is not paid but allowed to accumulate.
9.        Total rural lending 'ncreased six-fold between December 1964
and December 1968. However, in real value terms, this represented a
decline of 40%. This has not been due to any shift of emphasis from rural
to other avenues, but to the reduction in the real value of the peso.
Introduction of indexed loans should do much to prevent further erosion
of the BR's lending ability in the event of continuing inflation (see Table 1
for further details of the BR's financial operations).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Plan Agropecuario Lending
10.       All individual loans under the Plan have been made through the BR.
These loans are controlled by a division of the rural credit sector of
the credit department. This division is being upgraded to become a full
sector in the credit department so that its level of responsibility and
policy making will be more in line with its importance (Figure 1).
11.       Until 1967 all Plan loans were made by the central office
division directly. However, in the last 2 years, the bulk of the lending
decisions have been made by branch managers after discussion with the
local Plan technician. This has made it possible to get decisions in a
much shorter time. Detail of Plan accounts are shown in Annex 2, Tables
2 and 3.
Recent Legal Changes
12.       Under Law 12394, Article 11 (1957), the proceeds of the first two
IBRD loans were channeled exclusively through the Plan Agropecuario fund
in the BR. The rancher subloan amortization was paid by the BR into the
Uruguay's General Revenue to service the IBRD loans. The Government absorbed
both the bad debt and the exchange risks on these loans. (Law 12394, Article
14). This occurred as the Government-owned BR was both a commercial bank
and a central bank. However, with the creation of a separate central bank,
these arrangements need now to be revised.
13.       Law 13737 (Settlement of Accounts Act for 1967) Article 326,
enacted on January 9, 1968, authorizes the Government to borrow up to US$35
mi.1.lion from the IBRD for the purpose of the livestock plan created under
Law 12394. The Settlement of Accounts Act for 1968 (Article 317) provides
that said loan shall be administered by the Central Bank. Once the finan-
cial requirements of the program established by Law 12394 are met, loan
funds still available may be used to finance livestock production, process-
ing or marketing. This authorizes both financing of meat packing improve-
ment projects and the use of commercial banks as well as the BR in financing
the Third Livestock Development Project. However, Law 12394 has not been
specifically amended to reflect these and other consequential changes. The
Legal Department of the IBRD held discussions with the appropriate author-
ities in Uruguay on these problems in order to resolve any overlap between
Laws 12394 and 13737.
Accounting and Auditing
14.       Recording of historical data and maintenance of accounting re-
cords is adequate. Electronic data processing equipment (IBM 1401 tape
system) is now used and accounting records for the Plan are kept in the
Bank's Centralization section. Their accuracy and detail are adequate.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
15.       Internal auditing is by the General Inspection Department, which
reports directly to the President of the Bank. The independence of this
department, together with a very experienced staff, ensures custody of
the Bank's resources and compliance with regulations. However, internal
auditing is still not used as a tool for efficient management and for
reviewing effectiveness of internal management control.
16.       There is no external auditing of the BR.  Independent inspection
by the Government is done by the Board of Accounts through delegations
to the General Accountant of the BR.  This inspection, however, is only to
ensure that limits on authority to spend or commit budgeted items are not
exceeded. There is a real need within the BR for a mechanism that will allow
proper accountability from the lower levels of management to the higher,
and from management to the Government.
D. Commercial Banks
17.       Of the 42 commercial banks, foreign and local, only 5 are of
significant size in the overall commercial credit sector. Three of the
major Uruguayan banks, all of which have extensive rural branches, are
the Banco Commercial, Banco de Caja Obrera, and Banco Mercantil. The two
main foreign-owned branch banks are the Bank of London and South America
and the First National City Bank. Both are beginning to establish branches
in principal rural areas. The Central Bank has recently put a law through
the legislature that will permit eligible commercial banks, participating
in development lending to ranchers under Plan Agropecuario auspices, to
index (Annex 4) their medium- and long-term loans.
March 5, 1970



URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELPMENT PRO-JECT
The Bank of the Republic (BR)
Assets, Loan Portfolo    rfit, and Salaries, 1964~-1968
(000 ,ooo)
-- 1964 --------            ------ 1965 ---             ----- 1966 --------         ------- 1967 -------    ------ 1968 ------
I                                                Ur$          US$11          Ur$          US$2/           Ur$         US$3/          Ur$           US$Lg          Vr$          US$5
I   Loan Portfolio
-3
0       Rural Loans                             1,067         44.6           1,478        22.8           1,734        22.6           2,388        12.0            6,407        25.6
Industrial Loans                          639        26.7             890        13.7           1,521        19.8           2,108         10.6           1,981         7.9
Housing Loans                              11         0.5              25         0.4              31         0.4               34         0.2              32          0.1
Personal Loans to Government
Employees                              385       16.1              464         7.2           1,079        14.1           2,726        13.8            3,851        15.4
Other                                     330        13.l             367         5.7             572         7.5            1,592         8.0           3,816        15.2
Q* jpW ,a&nd. Semi-Government          1,832        76.6            5,561        85.8           6,379        83.3          73,871        37.3           81,667       326.6
Total Assets                               17,027       712.4          43,284       668.0          62,619       817.5         142,527        719.8         177,538       710.1
Deposits
Individual-Local Currency                 779        32.6           1,648        25.4           2,152        28.1           14,62)t       23.3           5,052        20.2
Foreign Currency                                                                                                          6,383         32.2           6,516        26.2
Private Banks:                            341        14.3             546         8.4             820        10.7            3,653        18.4           3,915         15.6
Local Currency
Foreign Currency                    10,008        418.7          29,820       460.2          46,264       603.9            6,927        35.o           8,520        34.1
Gross Income                                  482        20.2             753        11.6           1,688         22.0           2,610        13.2            5,582        22.3
Profits                                        24         1.0              26          0.4              37         0.5              50         0.2               79         0.3
Salaries                                      145         6.0             247         3.8              335         h.1I            690         3.5              992         3.9
Exchange Rates:
1/  US$1 = Ur$23.9.
2/  US$1 = Ur$64.8.
/  US$1   Ur$76.6.
4/  US$i - Url98.o.
5/  US$1 = Ur 250.0-






URUGUAY: THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANK OF THE REPUBLIC
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPARTMENTS
|     ||I                                                   I                                1 
EXTERNAL       CNTROLLER           CREDIT       ADIISTRATION        PERSONNEL        COMMERCIAL          LGLDEBT
GENERAL                                                                                                COLLECTION
SECTORS
INDUSTRIAL       ORDINARY      V   RNHDVLPET1RRLPLAN
DIVISIONS
TECHNICAL                           PLAN 
TECHN      ~AGRICULTURE         PA
ASSISTANC                         AGROPECUARIO
PROPOSED                                                                                                                        >z
CURRENT                                                                                                                        m
IBRD - 4583(R) -






ANNEX 4
Page 1
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indexing of Project Subloans
A. Introduction
1.        Inflation in Uruguay averaged 10% to 20% annually from 1963
to 1965, 80% annually from 1966 to mid-1968 and about 10% to 15% annually
since mid-1968. From a high of 120% in 1967, the rate of inflation has
been drastically reduced to 10% in 1969 through strong deflationary Govern-
ment policy. Maintenance of this level of inflation is the Governrment's
principal economic objective. However, while a return to the severe
inflationary process experienced in 1967 is unlikely, it nevertheless can-
not be expected that inflation averaging 10% to 15% can be reduced to, and
maintained at, 3% to 5% in the near future. For this reason, special lend-
ing terms have been designed by Government for development loans made under
cLe Plan to Project sub-borrowers. These terms take account both of the
technical requirements of on-ranch investment and the moderate levels of
inflation anticipated during the next decade.
2.        The lending terms proposed for the Project have been designed to:
(a)  fit the repayment terms of ranch loans to the slow yielding
nature of livestock investment;
(b) charge interest at a positive rate in real terms, regardless
of the future course of inflation;
tc) assure acceptance of these terms by participating ranchers;
and
'd) ensure satisfactory protection for the resources of the
Bank of the Republic (BR) and those participating commer-
cial banks providing development credit under the Project.
3.        The system devised by Government and now accepted by the BR and
part-icipating farmers was carefully worked out by the Plan with the Central
Bank and discussed at great length during the appraisal mission. It
appears that all the parties accept the system--now legally in force.
4.        Indexing of subloans to Project sub-borrowers is new to Uruguay.
The indexing system described below was introduced in January 1969. The



ANNEX 4
Page 2
confidence that the farmers have in the Government's ability to ensure
them a satisfactory price for beef and wool and maintain that price at
acceptable levels in light of changes in economic conditions in IJruguay
over the next decade will likely be directly related to the confidence
;-ey will have in the system of indexing loans.
B. Types of Indexes
5.        As some inflation has to be anticipated in Uruguay, it is neces-
sary to devise methods of countering its undesirable effects to protect
the resources of the on-lending institutions. Clearly, the best technique
is to pursue policies of regular price stability. This would encourage
long-term savings whose value would be maintained in real terms at an
appropriate reel rate of interest. Thus, development loans from savings
resources could be made and the lending institutions could be assured tI-.h
they would get back in real terms, the resources they lent originally.
Inflation damages the incentive for banks and the credit agencies to lend
for development purposes by:
(a) rendering money unattractive as a form of saving-inflation
reduces the amount of personal saving and directs what is
saved into non-productive ends like gold, foreign exchange,
and real estate;
(b) transferring real purchasing power from the lender to the
borrower;
(c) reducing or nullifying the real interest charged on develop-
ment loans-inflation destroys the essential allocative
function of the rate of interest; and
(d) introducing a large element of uncertainty about the future
value of money-lenders and borrowers are forced to commit
themselves for considerably shorter periods of lending under
these unstable conditions.
Choice of Index
6.        While acknowledging that indexing is a second-best solution,
it is nevertheless important to select the type of index that best
maintains rancher and lender confidence. Thus, the problem is not the
acceptability of indexing in principle but the acceptability to the
lenders and borrowers concerned in this particular Project of the index
selected. For this reason, it would be unrealistic and fruitless to



ANNEX 4
Page 3
search for an ideal index that would cover all types of development lend-
ing in Uruguay. Though an arbitrary one could be devised by Government
to apply throughout the economy on all loans, the likely result would be
that borrowers and lenders in areas out of line with the average would
stop using it and rely on some other method of compensating lenders for
inflation. They might even regress to a point of not entering into finan-
cial contracts at all.
C. Indexing Subloans to Beef and Wool Prices
7.        With this in mind, and for the purposes of the vital livestock
industry and the livestock development program supported by this Project,
the Government is now using an index on subloans, made under Plan auspices,
which is based on the ranch-gate price of beef and wool.  This system has
been accepted by over 4,000 ranchers since January 1969. It uses as a base
the value of 41.6 kg of beef and 5.2 kg of wool, calculated as the average
between November 1, 1968 and January 31, 1969. These index components are
based on the national average of beef and wool per ha.
8.        The Central Bank is charged with calculating the adjustments
for the quarter between November 1 and January 31, each year. It will
assemble data from the national stockyard, from the national meat packing
plants, from the chamber of commerce or from such other agencies as it
may consider appropriate. Before March 31, the Central Bank will forward
to the BR and any commercial participating bank the adjustment factor necessary
for each loan in the Project. A translation of the legal document that
borrowers now sign to obtain an indexed loan is presented as Schedule 1 to
this annex.
9.        in applying the index, all borrowers with 500 ha or more will be
subject to full monetary correction, based on the index described above.
For those farmers having between 300 and 500 ha, only 75% of the monetary
correction of their subloans will apply. For borrowers having less than
300 ha, loans will be adjusted only to 50% each year. As the majority of
the ranchers participating in this Third Livestock Development Project will
have ranches of 500 ha or more, the major portion of the funds lent under
the Project will be subject to full monetary correction.
March 5, 1970






URUGUAY                      Schedule 1
THIRD LTVESTCK DEVEIO}4ENT PROJECT
Loan Agreement Signd by Plan Rorrowers
BAITK OF THE EASTERN REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
To the Manager of the Bank of the
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
I/we hereby declare that we have this day opened a current account
with your Bank under the following name and category:
Category:    AGRICULTURAL PLAN (Act of July 2, 1957)
Account No.
Name:         ._-_____
Profession-                                 Domicile
This account will be operated with funds from the loan made by the
Bank under the Agricultural Plan (Act of July 2, 1957) and I/we shall assume
responsibility for the bWlance owing to you at any time which shall be repay-
able by me/us on demand at the discretion of the Bank with 10 days prior
notice.
This operation shall be subject to the requirements of the Acts of
March 241, 1919, August 12, 1937, January 2, 1939 and July 2, 1957, and
amending and related legislation so far as applicable as also to Article
No.                of Act No.                  and to the following contractu.al
clauses:
1. This loan shall be index-tied as follows:
a. the base index, which shall be equivalent to 1, for
determining the adjustment factor will be calculated
on the average value of 41.6 kilos of beef (fattened
steer on the hoof) and of 5.2 kilograms of wool
(fleeces from selected breeds of superior quality
and above) during the period between November 1, 1968,
and January 31, 1969;
b.  the adjustment will be made by taking as base the
index of positive increase in value of 41.6 kilograms
of beef (fattened steer on the hoof) and of 5.2 kg of
wool (fleece from selected breeds of superior quality
and above) provided by the National Stockyard in
accordance with data from the National Meat Packing
Plant and the Chamber of Commerce or obtained from
such agencies as may substitute for them in the
judgment of the Central Bank of Uruguay;
c. the adjustnnt index will be forwarded to the Bank
of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay by the Central
Bank of Uruguay before March 31 of each year;






,c'tedule 1
Paga 2
d. in determining the adjustment index the Central
Bank of Uruguay will take the average prices fetched
by the products indicated in subparagraph (b) for the
quarter between November 1 and January 31 of the *
following year;
e. if the value of the adjustment index is equal to or
less than 1, no re-evaluation of the loans will be
made for that year;
f.  if, on April 30 of each year, the Bank of the Eastern
Republic of Uruguay does not have available the in-
formation needed to apply the corresponding adjustment
index, the payment made by the debtor will be accepted
as a payment on account;
g.  this loan shall be payable in              annual
amortization installments of UrF
in legal tender, the first being      i
and of                       the first being payable on
_____________________     and the remaining installments
h. the adjustment shall be applied, in accordance with the
base index established in subparagraph (a) above, to
the corresponding amortization installment, plus interest
and commissions, in such manner that the debtor shall
repay on each occasion the amortization installment due,5
together with the amount of the re-evalua^tion in accord-
ance with the adjustment factor applying at the time
calculated on the base index;
i. during the period between October 30 and April 29 of
the following year no advanced payments in respect of
amortizations due shall be collected. Notwithstanding
this, if the debtor should wish to make a deposit to
the account of his debt, the Bank shall receive the
deposit but it shall be charged to amortization of the
debt after the corresponding re-evaluation has been
made, the foregoing being entirely without prejudice
to the provisions of subparagraph (k) below;
j. if it is desired to make amortization payments prior
to October 30, 1969, no adjustment shall be collected
in respect of these. For the following years, if
amortization payments are made prior to October 30,
they shall be subject to the adjustment in respect
of the immediately preceding April 30;






A1TNEX h
Schedule 1
Papge 3
k. in the case of payments on account, priority should be
given first to the payment of the adjustment, then to
payment of interest and cormnissions and finally to
amortization payments. Interest on the loan shall be
calculated on the total capital sum or outstanding
balances plus the adjustments on these balances;
1.  amortization payments that are more than 6 months overdue
or any such payments for which the Bank may have allowed
more than 6 months for payment, together with sums due in
respect of adjustments not paid on the date of their
maturity and whose payment has been deferred for more than
6 months, shall be subject to the adjustment index in
respect of the period between the following November 1
and January 31;
m. without prejudice to the provisions of the foregoing
clauses, the Bank shall determine the percentage increase
in the re-evaluation index to be applied each year in
relation to the area that the debtor may for any purpose
be farming.
I/we hereby undertake to complete as required such forms as may be
sent to me/us by the Bank under the above legislation and are relevant to the
case and to apply for these at the Bank's offices should I/we fail to receive
them. The Bank is authorized to debit to the current account of the person
to whom this declaration refers any taxes payable in connection with these
loans, together with such conrissions and adjustments as the Bank may require.
I/we hereby establish the place of domicile indicated above as my/
our place of domicile for all legal purposes.
19
Domicile                                         Signature
Domicile                                         Signature
Domicile                                         Signature
Domicile                                         Signature_
January 16, 1970






URtWUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJE CT
Developent of a 1,000 ha Ranch - New Borrowers
On Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Average Units                    Average Cost                                         Foreign       Foreign Schange
o                                       Per Ranch        Unit Cost        Per Ranch       Total Cost per 1,000 Ranches       Exchange         Component
H         Investment Category              No.             (Ur$)          (Ur$'OOO)       Ur$'000,000           us$'000         %              US$'000
H     Pasture Improvement (ha)l/
o        Fertilizer                        100             2,350             235              235                 940          80                752
Freight (M Tons)                   28             2,000              56               56                 224         60                134
Seed (Cultivated Pasture)          30             3,750             112             112                 1448         80                358
Seed (Orersowirg)                  40             2,000              80               80                 320         80                 256
Inoculant                          70                57               4               4                   16         20                   3
Cost of Cultivation
(Cultivated Pasture)             30            5,500             165              165                 660          60                396
Cost of Labor2/                    70                -               45               45                 180          -                  -
Fencing (km)                           2            95,000             190              190                 760          40                304
Water Supply                           1            40,000              40               40                 160          50                 Bo
Bulls                                  1            40,000              40               40                 160          -                  -
Contingencies                                                           48               48                 192         60                 115
T O T A L                                                            1,015            1,015               4,060                          2,398
1/ Based on 30% of pasture area cultivated and drilled; 40% oversown or sodseeded; 30% fertilized natural pastures.
2/ Ur$750 per ha oversown or sodseeded; Ur$500 per ha fertilized only.






fabIe-7
URBWUAY
THIRD LIVFSTOCK DEVELOPMENT PlOJECT
Develop mt of a 1,OGO-ha Ranch - New Borrowers
1ef  Cattle Herd Development Projections
-- - - - - - -    - - -  d of Ranch Year - - - - - - -
Before
Category                                           Developmsnt             1               2             3             4              5            6-12
Herd Composition (No.)
Bulls                                                        6                    7             8              9             ,                            9
Breeding COIs                                              205                  217           220           220            220           220           220
Neaners                                                    113                  113           130            143           143           143            143
Heifers 9-24 months                                         52                   52            53             61            68            68            68
Heifers 24-36 months                                        50                   50            50             51            59            66            66
Steers  9-24 months                                         52                   52            53             61            68            68            68
Steers 24-36 months                                         50                   50            50             51            59            51            51
Steers over 36 months                                       49                   49            49            25             -             -              -
.ull Cows                                                   23                   23            33            33             33            33            33
rotal Animals                                              600                 613            646           654           659            658           65e
rotal Animal Units (AU)                                   476                  489            500           495           500            499          2499
Purchased Steers                                            -                    -             30             30            30            30            30
Total AU's                                                 476                  439           533           525            530           529           529
Deaths (No.)
Bulls                                                        1                    1             1              1             1             1
Breeding Cows                                                9                    9              9             9             9              9             ,
Cull Cows                                                    1                    1             1             1              1             1              1
Heifers  9-24 months                                         4                    4             3             4              4             4              4
Heifere 24-36 months                                         2                    2             2              2             2             2              2
Steers   9-24 months                                         5                    5             4              4             3             3              3
Steers  24-36 months                                         2                    2             2              2             2             2              2
Steers over 36 months                                        2                    2             2              2             2             2              1
Purchased Steers                                            -                    -              1             1              1             1              1
potal                                                       26                   26            25            26             25            25            24
Purchases (No.)
Bulls                                                        1                    2             2              2             2             2              2
Breeding Heifers                                            -                    -             -              -             -             -              -
Steers                                                                                         30             30            30            30            30
Total                                                        1                    2            32            32             32            32            32
Sales
Cull Bulls                                                  -                    -             -              -              1             1             1
Heifers 24-36 months                                        18                    6             5              8             9            17            26
Steers  24-36 months                                        -                    -             -              -             -             15            15
Steers  36-46 months                                        -                    -             -             24             50            57            53
Steers over 48 months                                       48                   48            48            68             24            -             -
Cull Cows                                                   22                   22            22            32             32            32             32
Purchased  Steers                                           -                    -             29            29             29            29            29
rotal                                                       88                   76          104            161           165            151           151
rechnical Coefficients                                                   Production Data
Calf Weaning %                                              55                   55            60            65            65             65            65
Mortality 9-24 months                                        8                    8             7             6              5             5             5
Mortality over 24 months                                     5                    5             6             4              3             3             3
Extraction Rate %                                           15                   12            12            13            18             20            20
Percentage Bulls to Cows                                     4                    4             4             4              4             4             4
Culling %                                                   12                   12            12            15             15            15            15
Carrying Capacity AU/ha                                   0.67                0.69           0.73          0.73          0.73           0.73          0.73
Carrying Capacity (excluding sheep) AU                     470                 490            530           530           530            530           530
June 11, 1970






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 1 .;>DO-ha Rach - New Borrowers
Sheep Flock Development Projections - Stable Flock
Death                                       Wool                                     Wool
Opening                                                            and               Closing      Shearing     Weight per       Wool         Pri ce     Income
Flock Composition           Numbers   Births             Purchases           Sales             Culls              Numbers     Numbers       Sheep (kg)      Production (Ur$)         (Ur$)
H     Rams                          16                   4 1 5000    20,OOC                             4                16           16           5.0              80)
Breeding Ewes               400                                                                 16                384         392           3.5            1,372)
'Jnrmated Ewes, 24 months   120                                         20 1 800   16,000         4                96         118           3.5              412)
Unmated Ewea,12 months      124                                                                   4               120         122           2.5              300)        a 120    486,00
Wethers,  2-4 years         380                                         60 . 90D   51po00        60               260          350          4.0            1,400)
Wethers   1   aer           124                                                                   4               120          122          3.0              366)
Dell Ewes  /                 80                                                                 80                -             40          3.0             120)
Lambs                                  260                                                       12               2448         252          0.3              200         a 60       12,000
Sheep Crotched                                                                                                               (1.320)        var.             640         0 40       25,600
Total                     1,244                               20,000   80        70,000                         1,244       1,412                          4,890         0107  5/ 523,600
Technical Coefficients
Lamb weaning, %           65
Mortality to 1 year        5
"1        over 1 year      4
Coiling Rate,Ewes,%       20
,Wethers, %   25
I/ Consumed on ranch as workers' rations,
/ Weighted average ranch-gate wool orices.






ANNFX 5
URIIGUAY                                                           Table. 4
rNIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Development of a 1,000 ha Ranch - New Borrowers
Projection or Sales anrd eting ExpeVses
( ' JO Pesos)1
Unit Value of Cattle (Pesos)
Years                 Years           Before
CAT8XORY                                 0-3                    4-20         Developrent        1            2             3             4            5           6-12
SALES
Cattle-
Cull Bulls (500 kg/46 ps/kg)                 23,000                23,000              -            -            -             -              23           23            23
Heifers    (350 kg/5O ps/kg)                 17,500                17,500              315          105            88          140           158           298          420
Fat Steers (480 kg/52 ps/kg)                 25,000                25,000           1,200         1,200         1,200        1,200           600           -            -
Fat Steers (460 kg/52 ps/kg)                 23,520                23,920              -            -             -            564         1,196        1,722         1,555
Cull Oows  (450 kg/414 ps/kg)                18,800                19,800             41L           414           414          602           6314         634.          634
Purchased Steers (460 kg/52 ps/kg)           23,920                23,920             -             -            694           694           694          694           694
Sub-total                                                                              1,929        1,719         2,396        3,200         3,305         3,371        3,326
Sheep
Wool (Ur$107/kg)                                                                       524          524           524          524           524           524           524
Sheep                                                                                   70           70            70           70            70            70           70
Skins                                                                                   36           36            36           36            36            36           36
Sub-total                                                                                630          630           630          630           630           630          630
pOTAL                                                                                  2,559        2,3149        3,O26        3.830         3.935        4.0Q         3.956
EXPENSES
Salaries and Social Contributior, 2/                                                     605          630           650           680          680           680           68o
Maintenance of Machinery 23/                                                              90           90           100           100          100           100           100
Maintenance of Buildings  /                                                               60           60            60           60            60            60            60
Maintenance of Fences and Water_/                                                         75           75            75            75           75            75            75
Fuel and LubTcants                                                                        80           80            85            85           85            85            85
Fertilizers t/                                                                           _             _            140           140          1140          140           140
Shearing Expenses 7/                                                                      72           72            72            72           72            72            72
Veterinary Expenses 8/                                                                   108          130           136           134          133           133           133
Replacament Bu;Js and Rams 9/                                                             60           60           100           100          100           100           100
Taxes (land) -11/                                                                        150          150           150           150          150           150           150
Taxes on Sales -2/                                                                       205          188           246           311          318           323           320
Selling 2penses -                                                                         33           30            41            54           57            58            56
Freight 1)J                                                                               49            48           58            77            77           80            Bo
Contingencies                                                                             78           82            98           102          103           103           103
Sub-total                                                                              1.665        1,695         2,011         2,140        2,150         2,159         2,154
114/
Purchase of Steers for Fattening                                                         -             -            366           366          366           366           366
TOTAL                                                                                  1,665         1,695        2,377         2,506         2,516        2,525         2,520
Net Operating Income                                                                     894           654          649         1,324         1,419        1,476         1,436
1/  Prices reflect average rise of 30% between Msy and October 1969.                                     8/  Cattle Ps 80 per head, sheep Ps 57 per head.
2'/  Per annum - Rancher Ps 275,000 2 stockmen Ps 155,000 each plus casual help as required.             9/ Bulls Ps 40,000 per head.
3/ 16% on vehicle (Ps 500,000), 10% on machinery (Ps 200,000).                                          10/  Capital tax Ps 50 per ha, land tax Ps 150 per ha.
/ 2% on Ps 3,000,000.                                                                                   IT/  Cattle and sheep 10% - wool 6.5%.
Fe/ neocing 20 km e   Ps 2,500 p.a., water Ps 25,000 p.a.                                               TV/  Cattle and sheep 2% of sales.
'/ 100 kg per ha per annum of phosphate fertilizer (include freight and labor).                         17/ Cattle Ps 500 per head, sheep Ps 60 per head.
7i  Ps 35 per sheep, plus wool packs and twine.                                                         T/   Steers Ps 12,200 including freight and other costs.
June 11, 1970






TRUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM NT PROJECT
Development of a 1,000 - ha Ranch - New Borrowers
Financi   Po tion
( Ur' je00)t
-R- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -anch Year - - - - - - - -
Before     - -        -
Development       1          2         3          4         5          6         7           8         9        10-12
1. Cash Flow
Total Sales                                         559        2,349      3,026      3,830     3,935    16,001      3,956      3,956      3,956      3,956     3,956
Loan                                                -             810       -          -         -          -          -         -          _          _         _
Total                                             2,559         3,159     3,026      3,830     3,935      4,001     3,956      3,956      3,956     3,956      3,956
2. Cash Outflow
Rancher Contribution                                -             205       -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -
Investment of Loan Funds                            -1i                                                -         -               -          -
Operating Expenses                                i,665         1,695     2,377      2,506     2,516      2,525     2,520      2,520      2,520      2,520     2,520
Total                                             1,665         2,710     2,377      2,506     2,516      2,525     2,520      2,520      2,520      2,520     2,520
3.  Cash Balance (1-2)                                    89J           669        649     1,324      1,419     1,476      1,436     1,436      1,436      1,436      1,436
4. Debt Service
I/
Interest on Bank Loan (11% p.a. )                                  44        89         89        89         73         65        52         36         18
Interest on Working Capital
(15% p.a. for 8 months)                          -            -           3?         37        37         37        37         37         37        37         37
Principal Repayment 1/                              --                      -          -         102        113        126       139        155        175        -
5.  Cash Balance After Debt Service (3-4)                 89h           405        523     1,198      1,191     1,253      1,208      1,208     1,208      1,208      1,399
6.  Annual Incremental Cash Balance 2/                    _            (489)      (371)      304        297        359       316        311       314       314        505
7. Annual Incremental Hard  Value 3/                      -             188        307       261        148        70        -                    -          -          -
8. Total Annual Incremental Balance (6 + 7)               -            (301)      ( 64)      565        445       429        314        316        314       314        505
1/  Loan Amortization based on six equal debt service payrants of Ur$191,000.
7/ As compared to ranchers' net position before development.
3   As compared with before-development herd value of Ur$6,527,00C.
June 11, 1970
e 5






lRUGJUAT
THlilD LIVESiOCK DSVELWP1DT Pa3JECT
Development of a 500 -  Randi - Current Borrowers
On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Average Units                            Average Cost                  Total Cost
per Ranch           Unit Cost           per Ranch                per 2,000 Ranches                    Foreign Exchange           Foreign Exchange
ravestaent ateawy-                           No.                  (Ur$)             (Ur$'000)           Ur$O0' 000           (US0'00O)                 (% )                    Component
0'                           1/
H Pasture Improvement (ha)!
_,     Fertilizer                                50                   2,350                11.8                    236                94                   80                            755
o      Freight                                                                              28                     56                 224                  60                            134
Seed (Cultivated Pasture)                 15                   3,750                 56                    112                 448                  80                           358
Seed (Oversowing)                         20                   2,000                40                      80                 320                  80                           256
Inoculant                                 35                                          2                      i                  16                  20                             3
Coat of Cultivation                       15                   5,500                83                     166                 664                  60                           398
Cost of Labor 2                           35                                        22                      4hh                176
Refertilizaticn (ha).3/                      50                     168                 84                    168                 672                  75                            504
Fencing (kn)                                  1                  95,000                 95                    190                 760                  I0                            304
Water Supply                                  1                  30,000                 30                     60                 240                   50                           120
Bulls                                         1                  40,000                 4o                     80                 320                  _                             _
Contingencies                                                                           30                     60                 240                  60'                           1344
Total                                                                             628                  1,256               5,02h                  60                          2.976
1/  Based on 30% pasture area cultivated and drilled; 40% oversown or sod-seeded,30% fertilized natural pastures.
/ Ur$750 per ba for oversown or sod-seeded; Ur$500 per ha fertilized only.
3/ Average of 120 kg per ha.
FI






ANNEX 5
'raDLe 7
CJRUGCAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DWELOMM PROJECT
Development of a 500-ha Ranch - Current Borrowers
Beef Ct   Herd Dev1mt PrGjectiXe
-    ------------------ End of Ranoh Year ----------------------------------_ -------_
Before
CategoJ.rf                                       Development                                1                2                3                4                5 - 12
Herd Composition (No.)
Bullls                                          6                                          7               8                8                8                8
Breeding Cows                                 150                                       165              180              180              180              18C
Weaners                                        98                                        98              116              126              126              126
Heifers .   9-24 months                        46                                         46              47               55               60               6C
Heifers,    24 - 36 months                     20                                        15               10               -                -
Steers,      9-24 months                       46                                        46               46               55               60               60
Steers,      24 - 36 months                    27                                        26               25               25               27               27
Cul Cows                                       22                                        24               26               26               26               26
Total Animals                                 415                                       427              458              475              487              487
Total Animal Unit (AU)                       306                                        317              329              336              348              348
Purchased Steers                               15                                        15               20               15
Total AU's                                   321                                        332              349              351              308              348
Deaths   (Io.)
Bulls                                           1                                         1                1                1                1                1
Breeding Cows                                   5                                         6                6                6                6                6
Heifera ,    9-24 months                        3                                         3                2                3                3                3
Heifers ,   24-36 months                        1
Steers,      9-2)4 months                       3                                         3                3                3                3                3
Stoers,      24-36 months                       1                                         1                1                1                1                1
Steers       over 36 months                     1                                         1                1                1                1                1
Oll Co.s                                        1                                         1                1                1                1                1
Psarohbsed Steers
Total                                          16                                        16               15               16               16               16
Purchases (No.)
rpulls                                          1                                         2                2                2                2                2
Breeding Heifers
Steers                                         15                                        15               20               15               -                        _
Total                                          16                                        17               22               17                2                2
Sles    .N  )                                                                                                                          
Cull Bulls                                                                              -                -                  1                1                1
etifers      24-36 months                      18                                          6               4               25               23               28
Steers       2-36 months                       18                                        19               20               20               27               32
3teers       oVrer 36 months                   26                                        26               25               24               24               26
Cull Cows                                      21                                        21               23               25               25               25
purch3sed Steers                               15                                        15               20               15               -                -
Total                                          98                                        87               92              110              100              1L2
Technical Coefficients                                                     Production Data
Calf Weaning, %                                65                                        65               70               70               70               70
Mortality,    9-24 months                       6                                         6                5                5                5                5
Mortality,    over 24 months                    4                                         4                4                4                4                4
Extraction Rate ,8                             20                                        18               16               20               21               23
Percentage Bulls to Cows                       4                                          4                4                4                                 L
Culling   S                                    114                                       14               14               14               1                13.
Crrying Capacity  AE/ha                     0.84                                        087             0.90             0,90            0.90             0.90
Corryig Capacity (excl  sheep),AUJ          320                                        335              350              350              350              350
Jamar-y 16, 1970






URUGUAY
THTaD LIVESrOCE DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Development of a 500-ha danch - CurrelL. Borrowers
Sheep elock Developmnt Projections - Stable Flock
Death                        Wool                                              Wool.
-1         -           Opening                                                        and       Closing   Shearing  Weight per    Wool          Price                Incom
Flock Gonosition           Numbers   Births          Purchases             Sales         Gu3ls      Numbers  Nmbers   Sheep J-k)       Production  (Ur$ per kg)          (Ur$)
Rams                         8                2    5,000   10,000                           2         8         8         5.0           40)
Breeding Ewes              200                                                              8       192       196         3.5          686)
Unmated Ewes, 2-3 years     60                                       10 @ 800  8,000        2        48        59         3.5          206)
Unmated Ewes, 1-3 years     62                                                              2        60        61         2.5           153)        a3120               243,200
Wethers,      2-5 years    190                                       30 @ 900 27,000        30      130       175          4.0          700)
lWethers,     1-2 years      62                                                              2        60        61         3.0          183)
Coil Ewesa                  40                                                             40          -       20          3.0           60)
Lambs                                130                                                    6       124       126          .8           100         * 60                  6,000
Sheep Cmtched                                                                                                 (660)        var          320         ° 40                 12,l00
Total                       622      130      2          IO,OOO       4O        35,000      92       622       706                    2,448         01072/              262,000
Technical Coefficients
Lamb weaning, %       65
Itortality to I year   5                                                                                                                                                              AN
over 1 year
Culling Rate, Ewes %  20
" . -Wethers- a  25
Consmwd on ranch as workers' rations.
/ Weighted average ranch-gate wool price.






ALIIEX 5
Table 9.
TrmBUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DLRVRWLPhIT PROJECT
Development of a SOO5ha Ranch _Durrent sbrrowers
?ro3ection of Sales and Operating Expenses
-- - -  - - - - -  -Ranch    Year-- - - - - - - - -  ---   - -- - -  - - - -  - -
Jrit Value of Cattle
(p8o0s)                                  Before
Catcgory                                  Years 0-2           Years 3-20                   Developnent            1          2          3           I           5-12
Salcis
Cotle 1/
Cull Bulls (500 kg tt Ur$46/kg)            23,000              23,000                          _S -              -          -          23          23          23
lieifers    (35C kg B Ulr$50/kg)           17,500              17,500                         315               10f5       7')        438        )102         1490~
Pat Steers (460 kg t Ur$ 52/kg)            23,203              25,o02                       1,012            1,035      1,'35       1,10o       1,275       1, 5'
Cull Cows  (450 kg @ Ur$1 4/kg)            18,803              19,soo                         395              39 ~        1J3        191495                  195
Purchased Steers (460 8 5A52/kc)           23 920              23,92D                         359               350        178    _  359          -
`uo-totao                                                                                    2,081             1,894      2,015      2,L15       2,195       2,458
shoe!o
Wool (Ur$107/kg)                                                                              ?6?               262        262        262         2s2          262
Sheep                                                                                          35                35         J 5        35          1,
Skins                                                                                          16                16         16         16          16 16
hb- t.,r.a                                                                                     313               313        313        313         313         313
.otsl                                                                                        2,394             2,207      2,328      2,728       2,508       2,771
Operatiog Expensas
Saleries and SociaL 0ontributioosel 4S                                                                          410        420         430         44.         140
"aLit-enaue of 'schinery 3!                                                                     95                95         95         95          ;5          95
/Osho;onao.e of 3uildings 4 '                                                                  40                60         40         40          140          00
'haintensace of Fences and Water 5/                                                             55                55         55         55          55          SS
.4el arid LubrcL a -ts                                                                          60               60          70         70          70          70
Fert elszers o/                                                                                140                70        210        210         210        .'10
3heor ng &cpenoso 7/                                                                            36               36         ,6          36          ii .t
'.':erinary 5'tpenses 1/                                                                       75                76         o2         86:         6;,
_n1sol enon3 Bulls and Buas L/                                                                 50                50         90         90          eQ          90
IO/                                                                                      75 7'                        75         75 7n5                  75
r, :- = o, Sales _L/                                                                          191               177        187        21j          121.        215
3'_L *-o g E'oenses 1....... L.'                                                                35               32          oL         39          25
Ere g . t5 L,i                                                                                  614               60 62                 70          6j          7L
20/I: 0 .ilg/'C .l                                                                              66               63         72         75           7.  __
31s-..Otal                                                                                  1,387             1,20'c     1,528      1,581       1,563       1,603
o~ eo-'-o forFattening 114/                                           183              183         24n        183
Tossl                                                                                      1 570              1.482      1,772      1.7S4       1 563        1 .601
loL Osersting Income                                                                          824               725         556        964         9,5       i,a69
'  Prices reflect rise If 30% between May and October 1969.                                     8/   Cattle,Ur$80 oer head sheep,Ur$57 per head.
o a,rn,so - Oanohe3 ,ijr$250,000; 1  tockan,                                           9/   Bulls,Cr1$40,000 per head.
;llr ding social contrribution,Ur$155,000, and casual labor.
10/   Capital tax,Ur$50 per hasland tam,Ur$L0o  per ha
16    o- cle (Ur$530,00G),lO% on machinery (Ur$L50,000).
U/   Cattle and sheep, 10%; wool, 6.5%  of sales,
sl:on Dr$;,OQO.OC'C.
Da    Cattle and sheep, 2% of sales,
! -.-   s 14 Ism * Ur$2.500 o.a. sWater,Ur$20,000 p.a.
13/   Cattle,Ur$400 oer head;           Ur$60 per head.
1 10C kg  per ha u.s. DC ohosphate (Lncluding freight and labor),
114/   Steers,      12,200, including freight and other costs.
7    Ur 5 coo oheep,pl,n wool paclkc ond tw.ne.
.lne 11  1970






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 500-ha Ranch-Current Borrowers
Financial Projection
(Ur$'000)
--Before           --------- Ranch Year ------------------------
Before
Development       1        2        3       6        5        6        7        8      9-12
u     1. Cash Inflow
Total Sales                                 2,398         2,207   2,328   2,728   2,5o8   2,771   2,771   2,777   2,771   2,771
H           Loan                                           _            500      -       -        -        -        -        --       -        -
Total                                  2,396        2,707   2,328   2,728   2,508   2,771   2,771   2,771   2,771   2,771
2. Cash Outflow
Rancher Contribution                           -            128      -        -       -        - 
Inve3tment of Loan Funds                       -            500      -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Operating Expenses                          1,570         1,482   1,772   1,764   1,563  1i603   1,603   1,603   1,603   1,603
Total                                  1,570        2,110   1,772   1,764   1,563   1,603   1,603   1,603   1,603   1,6g3
3. Cash Balance (1-2)                               824          597      556      964      945   1,168   1,168   1,168   1,168   1,1d8
4. Debt Service
Interest on Bank Loan (11% p.a.)               -             27       55      55       55       46       36       25       13      -
Interest on Working Capital
(15% p.a. for 8 mrnths)                     18           18       24       18      -        -        -       -        -        -
Principal Repayment                            -            -        -        -        80       89       99      110      122      -
5. Cash Balance After Jebt Service (3-4)            806          552      477      891      810   1,038   1,033   1,132   1,033   1,168
6. Annual Incremental Cash Balance2/                -            (254)   (329)      85        4      228      227      226     227       362
7. Annual Incremental Herd Value_/                               158      249      325      208      -        -        -        -        -
S. Total Annual Incremental Balance (6+7)           -             (96)    (80)    410       212      228     227      226      227      362
1/ Loan Amortization based on five equal debt service payments o  Ur$135,000
7 As compared to ranchersr net position before development.                                                                                  CD 1
As compared with before-development hl7ra value of 1Ur:)3,950,0on.






ANNEX 6
URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK   VELOFYNT PROJECT
ProJect Investments
Foreign    Total Foreign
Total Cost                Exchange   Exchange Cam-
(US$ '000      Component    ponent
(Ur$tO00,000)     Equivalent)       %        (US$ '000)
1/
Ranch Development-
Pasture Develop 2en/4                     1,563             6.3            70          4.4
Fencing                                     380             1.5            40          0.6
water Supplies                              100             0.4            50          0.2
Livestock                                   120              .5            -             -
Contingencies                               108              .4           60           0.2
Sub-total                              2,271            9.1            60
Fertilizer Subsidy3/                           299             1.2             -            -
Incremental Working Capital                    366             1.5             -             _
Technical Services
Plan Agropecuario                           140             o.6           33           0.2
Pasture Seed Production and Processing-    75              0.3           100           0.3
Consultant Services for Meat
Processing Studies and Hygiene            100            0.4           100           0.4
Control
Sub-total                              _15              1.3           100           0.9
Total                                  3.251           13.1            48           6.3
1/ Includes funds for additional ranch and pasture dovelopmeat c  ranches that had previously
borrowed under earlier projects,as well as funds for first year of development of ranches
that had not previously participated in development program.
2/ Cost of phosphate fertilizer, pasture seed and inoculant, freight costs of fertilizer to
ranches and pasture sowing costs.
3/ See Annex 1, Appendix 9, for analysia of fertiliser costs.
4/ Cost of machinery, equipment and consultant services for pasture seed production, clean-
ing and processing equipment.
February 23, 1970






URUGAiY                                                                       ANNEX 7
Table 1
THIRD LIVESTOCK DKVkOPMENT POdJECT
Projected Sources and Apolitatito of Foods
Central Bank - Lirestock Project Account
(U1r$'OO,OO)
Category                                              1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9           10            11           12
Sources of Fmnds
TIRD Loan for,
On-Ranch Deelojoment                           900        450                                   -                 -           -                 -            -           -
Plan Agropeouario                              50                       -          -                       -            -           -           -           -                         -
Pasture Seed Production and
Processing                          50         25
Gorerrftt
Plan Agropsceario   /                           90         -
Fertilizer Sbasidy                            299           -
Interest Rrsd.te from
PFrticipating Beks                            36          86         107         107         101          88           70          51          29          10           c2
Prineoeal Recymlt b1
Partiolatis Banlc                             -           -            -          74         182         235         258          286         250         118           22
Tctel                                          1,hP5         563         107         181        283         323          328         337         279         128           74            -
Applioaticn of Funds
Loans to Participwting Banks
On-Ranch D.ellowsent                     900         450                      -           -                 -           -           -           -            -
Pasture Seed Prod-cticn aod
Processing                          50          25
Plan Agropecuarto                              140
Fertiliser Subsidy                             299                      -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Interest and Coamitamnt Fee and
Loan Anortization to IBRD                     4t           87         103         103         247         247         247         247         247         247          247          217
Administrative Costs of Pject Fund               1           1           1           1           1           1           1           1            1           1            1            1
Surplus (deficit)                               (6)                     3           77          35          75          go          89          31        (120)         (224)        (248)
Total                                         1i,25          563         10t7        181         283         323         328         337         279          128           24           _
'ash Belances with Interest Earnings J
Beginning of Year                               -           (6)         (6.7)       (4.2)       78         124         218         327         458          542          475          290
Surplus (deficit) as abowe                      (6)         -            3.0        77          35          75          80          89           31       (120)         (224)        (248)
Interest earned (cost) on curplus
(deficit) at 11%                            -            (0.7)       (0.5)        5          11          19          29          42          53          53            39           18
Ehd of Year                                     (6)         (6.7)       (4.2)       78         124         218         327         458         542          475          290           60
1/  Funds (Ur$100 million) for consultant seroices for meat processing and hygiene control studieo and -ehicles for meat inspection service  ould be handled by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Industry.   These funds are therefore not reflected in this Livestock Pco joct Account
2/  Lnterest earnings colclated on the beiss of the scount of casb h en-1r         O  hand at the beginning of the year plus (or mince) half of the  nnual ..sh surplus (or deficit)
fcr the year.  All oorclocec to te coed fcc disoc-tsoc  Short toer   a..er originoting from lartti.iating Banks financing of  ,orking caital needs of Project ranchers.
Juoe 11 li7P






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMllIT PF JECT
Projected Sources and Application of Funds - Participating Banks
(Ur$t000,000)
______________-   Y e a r   ---------- ----------                  - --
C     Category                                             1           2           3           4          5           6           7           8           9           10           11           12
H
,     Source of Funds
°)      Central Bank - Development Funds
for Sub-loans i/                               950         475          -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -            -
Interest Receipts
Development Loans                              82          179         207         207        197         170         136          99          57          21            3
Working Capital                                 41          78          87          60          41         41          41          41          4i          4i           4i           hi
Repaysnt of Principal
Development Lomas                               -           -           -           95        241         309         343         379         330         159           29           -
Working Capital                                366         691         773         488         366        366         366         366         366         366          366          366
Total                                       1,439        1,423       1,067         850         845        886         886         885         794         587          439          407
ADplication of Funds
Developmunt Loans                              1,257         628          -           -           -           -           -          -           -           -            -            -
Working Capital Lomas                            366          691         773        488         366         366         366         366         366        366          366           366
Administration Costs 2/                           13           31          38         38          36          31          25          18          10           4            1           -
Interest Payments to Central Bank
Developmant Loaus (719)                         36          88         107         107         101          88         70          51          29          10            2           -
Cost of Working Capital                             33           62          70         44          33          33          33          33          33         33            33           33
Repaymet of Principal to
Central Bank  /                                 -           -           -           74         182         235        258         286         250         118           22           -
Sub-total                                        1,705        1,500         988        751         718         753         752         754         688        531           424          399
Surplus (deficit)                                 (266)         (77)         79          99        127         133         134         131         106          56           15            8
Total                                         1,439        1,423      1,067         850         845         886         886         885         794        587           439          407
Cumulative Surplus (deficit)                      (266)        (343)       (264)      (165)        (38)         95         229         355         461         487          502          510
1/ Sub-loans for on-ranch development and pasture seed production and processing
2/  Estimated at 2% of outstanding loans
3/ Linked to amortization of ranch loans






URUGUAY
rHIRD LIVESTOCK DSVELOP3t3W PROJKCr
(Ur$ '000)
Developent of a 1,000 ha Ranch                                                                                          Development of a 500 ha Ranch
Financial Rate of Return Calculation - 4arch 1970                                                                      Financial Rate of letarn 01oalation - March 1970
Year     Net Operating      Increir.ntal    Investment        Change in          N Net Cash Flow                       Year    Net Operating       Incremiintal     Investnnt         Change in          Net Ca h Flow
Income         Net Income                      Working Capital                                                         Income         Net  Incoie                      Working Capital
0           894               -               _                  _                  _                                 0            824               -                -                  _                   -
1           654             (241)          (1,015)               -               (1,255)                              1            725              (99)            (628)                 -                (727)
2           649             {245)              -               (366)               (611)                              2            556             (268)              -                 (61)               (329)
3         1,324              430              -                  -                  430                               3            964              14D               -                  -                  140
4         1,419              525               _                 _                  525                               4             945             121                -               183                  304
5         1,476              582               -                  -                 582                               5          1,168              344                -                  -                 344
6- 11    1,436               542               _                 _                  542                               6- 11      1,168               344               -                  -                 344
12         2,4101/          1,516              _                  _                1,516                              12          2,1081/          1,284                _                                  1,284
Financial Rate of Return - 22%                                                                                        Financial Rate of Return - 23%
I/ Includirg credit for incremental herd value due to Prm3ect inveatment.
June 11, 1970






T'rF!D LTVF!?TOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
(UrA'I000,000)
Project          Aggregate of          Taxes 1/   Subsidies 2/    Technical Services   On-Ranch          Net Cash Flow
Year       Rancher's Incremental                                                        Investment
Net Cash Balances
1                 (438)               (120)         (299)              (315)              (2,271)         (3O,L3)
2               (1,269)                 55           (80)               (ho)                 -            (1,334)
3                  710                 11)           (80)               (h0)                 -               704
h                1,133                 21h           (80)               (40)                 -             1,227
5                1,270                 286           (80)               (lho)                -             1,436
6                1,230                 286            -                 ()!C)                -             1,476
7                1,230                 286            -                 (40)                 -             1,476
8                1,230                 286            -                 (ho)                 -             1,476
9                1,230                 286            -                 (h0)                 -             1,476
10                1,230                 286            -                  (40)                -             1,476
11                1,230                 286            -                  (40)                -             1,476
12                3,884 3/              286            -                  (4o)                              4,130
Economic T?ate of Return - 211
1/  Fertilizer subsidy estimated at 330 of total cost in Project Year 1, lOf of total cost in Project Years
2-5 and zero thereafter.
2/  Export taxes on beef are estimated at Urtl0,000 (UStLO) per ton.  Export taxes on hides are projected at
- Ur$b,250 (US$17) per ton.  Transactions taxes on slaughtering and processing of beef are estimated at
Ur$2,500 (US$10) per ton.  Municipal transactions and other indirect taxes estimated at Ur$10,750 (US$b3)
per ton. Total taxes per incremental ton of beef produced, processed and exported therefore estimated at
Ur$27,500 (US$110). The Project would finance the improvement of 200,000 ha of natural pasture. Each
improved ha estimated to provide an additional 52 kg of cold iressed weight. Therefore at full develop-
ment an additional 10,400 m tons of beef would be available for export worth an incremental Ur$286,000,000
(US$1.1 million) in tax revenue.
3/ Tncludes value for incremental herd for 1,000-ha and 500-ha ranches.
June11, 1970.






~~~~;QLc  (i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                      0L6L~~~~~~~~~~~~os    KmnNrq;4
4                                              Q3OThA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1~~~---  --
4..    Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...A
~~~~~~~~~~~~.                           .  . .  . . .
~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . . . .. . . .. ..                                       --
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          
S~~dA1 IAd~~~V.~~ NIVII .iO  NOIIV.O.Ol . .1V.b.E3 . . 
£o~~rO~~id   ±N~~INdO1~~A~G . . . .. . . ..I.H.L
.Y l   .l .fl    .....           






URUGUAY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FRIGORIFICO  LOCATION                                                       MAP 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                              ~ C S A -    /,Z t4 a  ?iS   S1 2~ 2  : ~ t v
4  = a 5,160evie
S    q ;7,$324}                Lag Piedras
.  - \ EYe9c U..n }   ai                                  7    jrrnja eaaloaes (49,202i   CSxro1els
v    ~~~   ~~  qa -             ' '      .     't 3itS~~~~ ~~a  (S,ra S -'C4r3
5 r  0    -t proraa   07,499)    ctlu
12 ZC.PCA.- Ouxazl Plaint 1id359)  Za. zza
-                  ART SA    153 maatina1 (64,09i)  Eray .SpAto"
14 T.uara-04  (16~,208)'ToagdB
N.3. SlambAr aftrar Ms" of p1Xanlc~ are 5196S
slauhter of aatti, & aIvas, as gt-
.rn each 7plazt
*                      *H-+-4-+4 ~~~~~~~~~~~fai1w&ya
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          :-4 0ertra.. ,x R. *.f\_--
*:rigorui ca
*        V , E R A
t  1(°   v p3 A y s A N D3 U                 t    /<r  
: -    9t,t,                      . t/a  ~~~C; u a R E M        R    (^-                                . 
<     \{ a~~Pysond6                          ' ,Pm4>y.,   - 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E (c- i),  =
- Aa,S,>9 EYN                                 U R   IA Z   M3 0                  /TRt E IJ N T  
A \ .' ) 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .t       ri y T-elw$If/
$[0/ XDRO  +/7                                H--CE O LAR.O 
Josi Ped,o  Plom
GI 11 f   X   F LO\REP t. .                           a   *
F EBRUARY 1970                                       L    8   R   I   D                       R    O   C   H   A   CR      2
0-01           \                s        m       e       g       ' tvL AV  aL L E/JA
-  X   XCO ~r-L ONhd A                      *    Florids     '.*                                                         a
.   .  . .                  St  Y~~~~~~~~~~ONTEVIDEOY1                  
FEBRUARy 1970                                                                                                             IBRD 2724



