Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2522 CHA 
(Environmental Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 16, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2522 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"CAS" means the Chinese Academy of Sciences of the Borrower, established 
as an autonomous institution by order of the Chinese People's Central Government dated 
October 31, 1949;
(b)
"CAS Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(c)
"EIAs" means environmental impact assessment reports; "EIA" means any one 
of the EIAs;
(d)
"FI" means the financial intermediary referred to in Part B of Schedule 
6, a specialized bank established and operating under a charter;
(e)
"Financial Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
pursuant to Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, between NEPA and an FI under which 
the FI will act as the financial agent of NEPA for purposes of making Subloans under 
Part B.4 of the Project;
(f)
"IDP Subprojects" means Industrial Demonstration Pilot Subprojects 
comprising specific investments for purposes of demonstrating, on a pilot basis, new 
technology and methods to abate pollution created by industries, to be financed in 
part from the proceeds of the Credit under Part B.4 of the Project; and "IDP 
Subprojects" means any one of the IDP Subprojects;
(g)
"Implementing Agency" means singularly the department or agency of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out Project activities under Parts B.9, C.1 and C.2 
of the Project under the direction of NEPA; and "Implementing Agencies" mean 
collectively the departments and agencies of the Borrower selected by NEPA, 
responsible for carrying out activities under such Parts of the Project;
(h)
"NEPA" means the Borrower's National Environmental Protection Agency, 
established as an autonomous agency by the State Council of the Borrower on August 13, 
1988 (Document No. SC 1988 54);
(i)
"NEPA Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Plan Documents" means the ten documents setting forth detailed 
plans for technical assistance, training, and equipment, one each for Parts A.1, A.2, 
B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5,
B.6, B.7 and C of the Project, provided by the Borrower to the Association, as the 
same may be revised in writing from time to time as agreed with the Association; 
"Project Plan Document" means any one of the Project Plan Documents;
(k)
"Subborrower" means an industrial enterprise to which a subloan has been 
made or is proposed to be made in order to carry out an IDP Subproject;
(l)
"Subloan" means a subloan, in an amount not exceeding $1,000,000 
equivalent, made or proposed to be made, out of the proceeds of the Credit to finance 
an IDP Subproject; and
(m)
"Special Accounts" means the CAS Special Account and the NEPA Special 
Account; and "Special Account" means any one of the Special Accounts.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 35,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
Page  3
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) for the purposes of Part A of the Project (the 
CAS Special Account); and (ii) for the purposes of Parts B and C of the Project (the 
NEPA Special Account), open and
maintain in dollars two separate special deposit accounts in a bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2003 and ending June 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2013 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
CAS to carry out Part A of the Project and NEPA to carry out Parts B and C of the 
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Project Plan 
Documents and appropriate financial, technical and administrative practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause: (i) Part A of the Project
to be carried out by CAS and Parts B and C (except Part B.4) of the Project to be 
carried out by NEPA in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) Subloans under Part B.4 of the Project to be 
made by NEPA through an FI in accordance with Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit to CAS for purposes 
of carrying out Part A of the Project, and to NEPA for purposes of carrying out Parts 
B and C of the Project, on the
following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
repayment of the proceeds of the Credit so onlent over a period 
not exceeding 
twenty years, including five years of grace;
 
(ii)
interest to be paid on the proceeds of the Credit which have been 
so onlent and are 
outstanding at the rate of one percent per annum; and
 
(iii)
all foreign exchange risks to be borne by CAS in respect of 
expenditures made on 
account of Part A of the Project, and by 
NEPA in respect of expenditures made on 
account of Parts B 
and C of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CAS to maintain in respect of Part A 
of the Project, and NEPA to maintain in respect of Parts B and C of the Project, 
records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
cause the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year to be audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  5
(ii)
cause to be furnished to the Association, as soon as available, 
but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
cause to be furnished to the Association such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received 
the audit reports for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account or payment out of 
the Special Accounts were made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audits contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
any party to the Financial Agency Agreement shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations thereunder;
(b)
the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CAS or NEPA, or for the 
suspension of their respective operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have 
approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid J. Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  7
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   CAS Component
      under Part A of
      the Project
      (a) Equipment              9,880,000      100% of foreign ex-
                                                penditures, 100% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      (b) Consultants'           2,120,000      100%
          services and
          training
      (c) Unallocated            2,120,000
(2)   NEPA Component under
      Parts B (except B.4)
      and C of the Project
      (a) Equipment              8,470,000      100% of foreign ex-
                                                penditures, 100% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
       (b) Consultants'           7,770,000      100%
          services and
          training
      (c) Unallocated              560,000
(3)   NEPA Component under
      Part B.4 of the
      Project
      (a) Equipment              3,890,000      100% of foreign ex-
                                                penditures, 100% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      (b) Consultants'             490,000      100%
          services and
          training
                                __________
      TOTAL                     35,300,000
Page  8
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures under Category (3) unless: (i) the Association shall have 
been provided with a Financial Agency Agreement, acceptable to the Association, 
including an opinion of counsel with qualifications acceptable to the Association, 
that the Financial Agency Agreement has been duly entered into, authorized or ratified 
by the parties thereto, and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with 
its terms; and (ii) that the IDP Subproject for which expenditures have been made 
shall have been approved by the Association; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, (i) in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 70,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories 1(a) and 1(b), and (ii) in an aggregate amount not to 
exceed SDR 350,000 may be made in respect of Category 2 (b), on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the Borrower's environmental 
programs, including strengthening the policies, programs and institutional capacity of 
CAS and NEPA; (b) to improve coordination of environmental monitoring and ecological 
research; (c) to promote clean industrial production, pollution prevention and waste 
minimization technologies; (d) to promote the use of economic policies in support of 
pollution control; and (e) to strengthen capacity to perform environmental impact 
assessments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
CAS Institutional Strengthening
 
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to the Chinese Academy 
of Sciences in support of the establishment and operation of:
1.
the Chinese Ecosystem Research Network (CERN); and
 
2.
the Biodiversity Research and Information Management Program (BRIM).
 
Part B:
NEPA Institutional Strengthening
 
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to the National 
Environmental Protection Agency and to other Implementing Agencies designated by NEPA 
in support of the following
activities:
1.
the establishment and operation of the provincial environmental information 
system;
2.
the expansion, upgrading and operation of a global environmental monitoring 
system (GEMS) in China;
3.
the expansion, upgrading and operation of the national program for research, 
development and testing of environmental reference materials;
Page  9
4.
the establishment and operation of a cleaner production program for industrial 
enterprises, including the making of Subloans for IDP Subprojects to be carried out by 
Implementing Agencies;
5.
the strengthening of environmental education programs at the college and 
university level;
6.
the expansion and upgrading of training and human resource development programs 
of NEPA and provincial and municipal level environmental protection bureaus;
7.
the expansion, upgrading and operation of the Environmental and Economic Policy 
Research Center of NEPA;
8.
carrying out three policy studies of:
 
(a)
the implementation of the policies and system of pollution discharge fees 
in China;
(b)
pollution control policies for town and village enterprises; and
 
(c)
development policy for ecological agriculture; and
 
9.
carrying out by NEPA, or by NEPA through Implementing Agencies, of studies of 
key environmental and ecological issues.
Part C:
Environmental Impact Assessment Capability Support
 
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to NEPA to strengthen 
the capacity of NEPA and the Borrower's Implementing Agencies responsible for carrying 
out environmental impact assessments (EIAs) by:
1.
carrying out EIAs of projects for which funding by the Association or the Bank 
is being proposed or has been obtained;
2.
developing a program to analyze and carry out new approaches and methodologies 
for performing EIAs; and
3.
expanding and upgrading NEPA's program of training and human resource 
development for performing EIAs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
(a)
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(b)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to 
all foreign currency components
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall 
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
Page  10
(c)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Association, with such 
modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where 
no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Association, the 
Borrower shall use bidding documents
based on other internationally recognized standard forms.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to 
a total aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to 
a total aggregate amount equivalent to $3,670,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from at least 
three countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Equipment under Parts B.3, B.8 and B.9 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
4.
Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with the suppliers thereof, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more and contracts for goods of a proprietary nature, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be 
made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
Page  11
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause the 
Implementing Agencies to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review of approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
3.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants 
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued 
by the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Association, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Budgeting
 
For the Borrower's budgeting purposes only, the following are proportional 
amounts of the Credit proceeds that are expected to be used in carrying out each Part 
of the Project:
                                     Amount in US dollar equivalent
      Part of the Project                     (millions)
      (1)   A.1                                  15.5
      (2)   A.2                                   4.5
      (3)   B.1                                   6.0
      (4)   B.2                                   1.7
      (5)   B.3                                   0.8
      (6)   B.4                                   6.2
      (7)   B.5                                   1.6
      (8)   B.6                                   1.3
      (9)   B.7                                   0.5
      (10)  B.8                                   1.4
      (11)  B.9                                   4.7
      (12)  C.1                                   2.3
Page  12
      (13)  C.2                                   2.0
      (14)  C.3                                   0.7
Part B:
General Implementation of the Project
 
1.
Without limitation on the reporting requirements of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, CAS and NEPA shall: (a) provide to the Association semiannual reports on 
the progress of carrying out the Project; (b) conduct annual reviews of the progress 
of implementing the Project; and (c) shall conduct such reviews in conjunction with 
the Association every other year.
2.
(a)
All training under the project shall be carried out in accordance with 
training plans satisfactory to the Association, including the requirement that all 
personnel that participate in overseas training shall report on the lessons learned 
during such overseas training in a manner and in a format that would permit 
dissemination of such lessons learned in domestic training.
(b)
CAS and NEPA shall carry out a review of all training programs by 
September 30, 1994 for purposes of identifying new needs for training and making such 
revisions to training programs as shall
be acceptable to the Association.
3.
CAS and NEPA shall provide to the Association by November 30, 1993, revisions, 
acceptable to the Association, to the Project Plan Documents as requested by the 
Association.
Part C:
NEPA Implementation of Parts B.8, B.9, C.1 and C.2 of the Project
 
1.
NEPA shall:
 
(a)
by December 31, 1993, provide to the Association a description of studies 
that have been pre-identified by the Association and NEPA under Parts B.8 and B.9 of 
the Project (including associated technical assistance, training and equipment), and 
terms of reference for such studies, satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
carry out such studies in accordance with such terms of reference.
 
2.
NEPA shall carry out Parts B.9, C.1 and C.2 of the Project in accordance with 
the criteria and procedures specified below:
(a)
The purpose and scope of each proposal (TA Proposal) for technical 
assistance (TA) to carry out such Parts of the Project, the method of implementation 
thereof, and the specific allocation
thereto of proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between NEPA and 
the Association.
(b)
Each TA Proposal shall be of high priority in the Borrower's 
environmental efforts and shall have no equally suitable financing available from the 
United Nations Development Programme or
other external financing agencies.
(c)
NEPA shall submit, for the Association's approval, each TA Proposal in a 
form satisfactory to the Association. The said proposal shall include the following 
information:
(i)
a description of the proposed TA, including a time schedule for, 
the purposes and 
objectives of, and the benefits expected from 
such TA;
(ii)
a description of the role of Implementing Agency for the purpose 
of execution of 
the proposed study and counterpart staff, if 
any, to be supplied by the 
Implementing Agency;
 
(iii)
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of 
the Credit including an estimate of foreign 
and local costs of the proposed TA 
broken down by major items 
Page  13
and showing amounts to be financed by NEPA or an 
Implementing 
Agency and out of the proceeds of the Credit, respectively, and an 
estimated disbursement schedule;
(iv)
the manner and form in which the allocated part of the proceeds of 
the Credit is 
proposed to be made available to the 
designated Implementing Agency, including the 
terms and conditions 
thereof;
(v)
a general description of the arrangements to be made by the 
Implementing Agency 
responsible for the execution of the 
proposed TA for the provision of office space, 
secretarial 
facilities, transportation and other operational facilities required 
for the proposed TA to proceed efficiently;
(vi)
the proposed selection procedures, qualifications, terms of 
reference and duration 
of service for the consultants to be engaged 
for the purposes of the proposed TA;
(vii)
measures to be taken to comply with paragraph 4(a) below; and
 
(d)
such other information as the Association may reasonably request.
 
(e)
NEPA shall, upon approval of a TA Proposal by the Association, forthwith 
make the allocated part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the designated 
Implementing Agency in a manner and form and on the terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
NEPA shall coordinate the carrying out of all TA under Parts B.9, C.1 and C.2 of 
the Project among the Implementing Agencies and shall monitor the progress thereof in 
accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
(a)
NEPA shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable measures to 
facilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their services for each TA 
Proposal approved and make available to
them all information relevant thereto.
(b)
NEPA shall not permit the amendment or waiver of any material terms and 
conditions of employment of consultants employed for carrying out any TA, or the grant 
of any material extension of
time specified for the carrying out of any TA, or the grant of any material extension 
of time or any approval of subcontracts or modifications thereof, or the agreement to 
substitute personnel of such consultants, without the prior consent of the 
Association. NEPA shall promptly inform the Association if it proposes to suspend 
payments under or terminate any contract with such consultants.
(c)
NEPA shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association copies of the 
documents prepared by the consultants engaged for any TA, including reports and drafts 
thereof, in such number as the Borrower or Association shall reasonably request.
(d)
NEPA shall establish arrangements and procedures, satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Association, for supervising and directing the work of any 
consultants employed for any TA and reviewing the reports and recommendations of such 
consultants with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) Category 1 for the CAS Special 
Account; and (ii) Categories 2 and 3 for the NEPA Special Account, all set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  14
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project, in respect 
of the CAS Special Account, and for Parts B and C of the Project, in respect of the 
NEPA Special Account, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to: (i) 
$2,000,000 for the CAS Special Account, and (ii) $3,000,000 for the NEPA Special 
Account, all to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into said 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said 
Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of said Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect of the 
respective Parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
respective Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Parts of the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Page  15
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit into a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures and Terms and Conditions
for Subloans under Part B.4 of the Project
Part A:
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
 
NEPA shall make a portion of the proceeds available to Subborrowers, through FI 
as its financial agent for purposes of financing IDP Subprojects under Part B.4 of the 
Project, under the following principal terms and conditions:
1.
Subloans shall bear interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, at a fixed rate of seven percent per annum.
2.
The repayment periods for Subloans shall not exceed 10 years, including up to 3 
years of grace.
3.
Each Implementing Agency shall bear the foreign exchange risk associated with 
its Subloan.
4.
Criteria for economic appraisal of proposed IDP Subprojects shall include, inter 
alia, determination that the pollution reduction option selected for an IDP Subproject 
is the most cost-effective of at least three feasible options, that the closure of the 
Subborrower is not the most economic solution and that based on economic analysis, the 
Subborrower has a positive net present value.
5.
Criteria for financial appraisal shall include a determination that the 
Subborrower is financially viable, as measured by a debt service ratio coverage of no 
less than 1.4 times after the IDP
Subproject is completed and has reached full production capacity.
6.
Criteria for technical appraisal shall include an assessment of the impact of 
the proposed IDP Subproject on pollution prevention and reduction in accordance with 
cleaner production pollution prevention audit procedures, acceptable to the 
Association, and compliance with national and local environmental regulations.
Page  16
7.
FI shall not disburse funds for any Subloan unless the Subborrower has:
 
(i)
completed an environmental impact assessment report for the IDP 
Subproject which 
has been approved by the responsible 
environmental protection bureau;
(ii)
obtained a wastewater discharge permit for existing operations; 
and
(iii)
obtained a temporary wastewater discharge permit for new 
operations for the 
relevant IDP Subproject.
 
8.
Eligible IDP Subprojects shall be for activities which shall have been approved 
by the Association which will demonstrate, on a pilot basis, new methods and 
technology to abate pollution caused by industries.
9.
The maximum amount of a Subloan shall be $1,000,000 equivalent.  Each Subloan 
shall finance up to 50% of total IDP Subproject costs or 100% of foreign exchange 
costs, whichever is greater.
Part B:
Implementation Arrangements
 
NEPA shall enter into a financial agency agreement with an FI, acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, under which the 
FI shall act as financial agent for NEPA in carrying out Part B.4 of the Project and 
shall be responsible for financial and economic appraisal of IDP Subprojects and 
disbursement and collection of repayments under Subloans.
Part C:
Procedures for Processing Subloans
 
1.
NEPA shall apply, and shall cause FI to apply, the following procedures for 
processing Subloans:
(a)
Prior to appraisal of proposed IDP Subprojects, NEPA shall furnish to the 
Association for its approval a statement of the eligibility of the IDP Subproject, 
including a quantification of the
environmental impact and a completed cleaner production pollution audit.
(b)
After detailed appraisal of proposed IDP Subprojects, NEPA shall furnish 
to the Association for its approval a full appraisal report, including the financial 
and economic appraisal
carried out by FI.  FI shall make a Subloan for an IDP Subproject only after the 
Association shall have given its approval of the IDP Subproject.
(c)
For all IDP Subprojects, NEPA shall furnish to the Association all such 
information as it shall reasonably request concerning IDP Subprojects, Implementing 
Agencies and Subloans.
(d)
No expenditures for goods or services required for an IDP Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the 
Association shall have given its approval or authorization as required under paragraph 
(b) above and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days 
prior to the date on which the Association received the appraisal reports or IDP 
Subproject summary under said paragraph (b).
2.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby NEPA and FI shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Subborrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Association, NEPA and FI, including the right to:
(a)
require the Subborrower to carry out and operate the IDP Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
Page  17
3 to this Agreement and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the IDP Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, plants and construction 
included in the IDP Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Subborrower shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Subborrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or NEPA shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Implementing Agency and to the benefits to be derived from the IDP 
Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Subborrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Subborrower to perform its obligations 
under its contract with NEPA.
