Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(Environmental Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
Dated February 12, 1993
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting on its own behalf (the 
Association) and as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN 
(Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, 
Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association 
have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing 
of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the 
case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; 
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Association to carry out the 
Technical Assistance;
WHEREAS (D) the Association has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Page  2
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in 
the following areas:
(a)
environmental monitoring and information systems;
(b)
ecological research and monitoring systems;
(c)
industrial pollution prevention and control;
(d)
institutional management capacity building; and
(e)
environmental impact assessment.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "yen" and "¥" mean the 
currency of Japan, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well 
as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on 
February 1, 1993 and to provide a total of 140 staff-weeks of service between that 
time and September 30, 1993. 
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Association and the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance 
shall be in an amount of eighty-one million three hundred thousand yen (¥81,300,000).
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the following 
expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by 
the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services;
(d)
expenses related to computers and software; and
(e)
training expenses.
Section 2.03. The Association shall make reasonable efforts to secure the 
services of the Consultants.
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Association and shall be done according to 
the Association's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the 
Association and the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out 
promptly and effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions 
to its officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange 
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories 
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the 
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
Page  3
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the 
Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and 
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants 
and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed 
under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the 
Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of the Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into 
such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by 
them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become 
the property of the Recipient; and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and 
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's 
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and 
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by 
third parties against the Administrator or the Association. The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Administrator and the Association against any costs, claims, damages or 
liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection 
with the Technical Assistance, except those resulting from the gross negligence or 
willful misconduct of the Administrator or the Association, as the case may be.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, 
facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of 
the Association and the Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
If any member of the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work 
assigned to him by the Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied by 
such member, the Consultants may request the replacement of such member, and the 
Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such request.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient, the Association and the Administrator shall, from 
time to time, at the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance 
and consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any 
recommendations made in those reports.
Page  4
Section 4.02. The Association and the Administrator may use any reports prepared 
by the Consultants for any purpose that the Association or the Administrator, as the 
case may be, may consider appropriate but those reports may not be made public except 
by agreement between the Recipient, the Association and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Association, the Administrator 
and the Recipient under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance 
with their terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof 
to the contrary. Neither the Association nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall 
be entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any 
provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of 
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any 
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence 
in such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any 
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy 
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any 
claim by any such party against any other such party arising under this Agreement 
which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to 
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Association and the 
Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed jointly by the Association and the 
Administrator; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the third 
arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement 
of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the International 
Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General 
of the United Nations. If either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such 
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in 
accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act, a successor 
arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the 
appointment of the original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers 
and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name of the 
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding.  Within thirty days 
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
Page  5
and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply 
with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. The Association, the Administrator and the 
Recipient shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs 
of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the Association 
and the Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other. Any question 
concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for 
payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this 
Agreement or of any claim by any such party against any other such party arising 
thereunder.
(k)
The Association shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the 
Recipient upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or 
to pursue any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, 
except as such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by 
reason of the provisions of this Section. If, within thirty days after counterparts of 
the award shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied 
with by the Association, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of 
the award against the Association.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed 
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted 
to be given or made at such party's address specified in this Agreement or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other 
requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties, provided, however, that expenditures eligible under Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement made before the execution of this Agreement and on or after February 1, 1993 
may be paid after this Agreement has become effective.
Section 6.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Association and the 
Administrator in writing to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the 
Recipient has made such a request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds for the Technical Assistance if any of the following circumstances shall have 
occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact 
that such payment may have been made by a third party) of principal, interest, service 
charges or any other amount due to the Association or the Bank: (i) under any 
development credit agreement between the Recipient and the Association, or (ii) under 
any loan or guarantee agreement between the Recipient and the Bank, or (iii) in 
consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the 
Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement.
(c)
(i)
The Association or the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any development credit 
agreement with the Association or any loan agreement with the Bank because of a 
failure by the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; or 
(ii) the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of any borrower to 
Page  6
make withdrawals under a loan agreement with the Bank guaranteed by the Recipient 
because of a failure by such borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Association or 
the Administrator, as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its 
purposes, or the execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Association; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the 
International Monetary Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient, in or pursuant to this Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by 
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material 
respect.
Section 6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further 
action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 6.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator 
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section 7.01. All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be 
addressed as follows:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Administrator and the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Luo Qing
Page  7
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of the Grant
By /s/ Daniel Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
1.
Provision of technical assistance to assist in the preparation of the following 
components of the Environmental Technical Assistance Project:
(a)
Chinese Academy of Sciences Ecological Research Network (CERN) and 
Biodiversity Research and Information Management Program (BRIMP);
(b)
National Environmental Protection Agency's (NEPA) program for cleaner 
production and waste minimization technologies for industry;
(c)
NEPA's program of human resource development, management capacity 
building and staff training;
(d)
NEPA's environmental monitoring and information systems at the provincial 
and local level;
(e)
NEPA's environmental impact assessment system;
(f)
terms of reference and associated preparation training for the following 
studies:
(i)
environmental education systems at the university level;
(ii)
policy and implementation of China's pollution levy system;
(iii)
development policy for ecological agriculture;
(iv)
pollution control for TVEs;
(v)
motor vehicle pollution control;
(vi)
hazardous and toxic waste management;
(vii)
management and coordination of ecological monitoring; and
(g)
provision of computers and software.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Services, Facilities,
Equipment and Counterpart Personnel to be
Made Available by the Recipient
1.
Data relevant to the Technical Assistance, materials and reports which exist in 
corresponding environmental and research agencies.
2.
Qualified counterpart personnel who are capable of performing assigned tasks.
3.
Any communication equipment that may be necessary to carry out the Technical 
Assistance (Facsimile, Telex, telephone, IDD); not including communication fee.
4.
Transportation assistance in cities in China.
Page  8
