RESTRICTED
F   LE   CW     Y               Report No. p-7
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
October 23, 1969



REPORT AND RECO ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM
OF NEPAL FOR A TMIEiCOI'iJNTICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$1.7
million to the Kingdom of Nepal for a telecommunications project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The initial request to the Association for a credit to finance
telecommunications development was made in May 1966, following the
recommendations of an International Telecommunications Union mission for
major expansion of the network. After several preparatory missions, the
project was appraised in January/February 1969, and negotiations for the
proposed credit took place in Washington between June 16 and June 23, 1969.
The BorrowTer was represented by Mr. B.B. Pradhan, Secretary, 1Ministry of
Works, Transport and Communications; Mr. K.B. Manandhar, Additional
Secretary, Ministry of Finance; and Mr. B. Pradhan, First Secretary of the
Emibassy of Nepal in Washington.
3.        The proposed credit would be the first lending operation of
the Bank Group in Nepal although the Bank granted the equivalent of
$100,000 to finance a transport survey in 1964 and 1965. This relative
inactivity has been due to the Government's limited capacity to identify
and prepare projects, and to the fact that financing from bilateral sources
was secured for most of the projects that did come forward so far. Now,
however, several projects are under consideration by IDA. A bridge
replacement and road maintenance project is scheduled for appraisal in
the next few months, and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program has identified
an irrigation project which may be suitable for financing.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
4.       Borrower:               Kingdom of Nepal
Benefici'.rY:          Nepal Telecommunications Board (NTB)
Anount:                 Various currencies equivalent to US$1.7
million.
Purpose:                To cover part of the foreign exchange
cost of the expansion and modernization
of the telecommunication system in the
period 1968 to 1973.



-2-
Amortization:           In 50 years, including a 10-year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
of 1- of 1% from September 15, 1979
through March 15, 1989, and of lAa from
September 15, 1989 through March 15, 2019.
Service Charge:         3/4 of 1% per annum.
Relending Terms:        The Borrower would make the proceeds of
the credit available to NTB at 6gS per
annum for 12 years including a 2 year
grace period.
PART III - THE PROJECT
5.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Nepal - Appraisal of the Telecommunications
Expansion Program" (PU-16a) dated October 7, 1969.
6.        Telecommunications services in Nepal are still in the early
stages of development. Telephone density is about .025 per 100 people --
the lowest for any country with a telephone network. Only three telephone
exchanges exist, two in the Kathmandu area and the other at Biratnagar
in the eastern part of the country. The long-distance internal communication
network consists of a single-wire telegraph land line, the use of which
has been largely abandoned, and point-to-point radio links largely used
for telegraph purposes. Limited international telegraph and telephone
connections are available via high-frequency radio systems operating to
India and Pakistan.
7.        The system is at present operated by the Nepal Telecormunications
Department which forms part of the Ministry of Works, Transport and
Communications. However, efficient operation and expansion of the
services in the future will require the existence of a separate organiza-
tion with a sufficient degree of administrative and financial autonomy.
Accordingly, the Government has agreed to set up a new entity, the Nepal
Telecommunications Board (NTB), whose purpose will be the ownership and
operation of the domestic and international telephone and telegraph
s-stems and facilities in Nepal.  Legislation creating NTB has been
promulgated. The reorganization process, including the actual transfer
of assets and functions required for NTB's operations, will be carried
out wqith the assistance of consultants provided for under the proposed
credit and is expected to be completed by July 16, 1970, the beginning
of Nepal's next fiscal year. NTB will be provided with sufficient authority
and financial autonomy to enable it to carry out the project and operate
Nepal's telecommunications efficiently. A commercial accounting system
is expected to be introduced by July 16, 1970, with assistance of the



- 3 -
above mentioned consultants. In addit-on, NTB will retain two foreigni
experts to fill the positions of business manager and financial controller
during the next few years. The Government has already approached the
United Kingdom to obtain these services under the Colombo Plan. Appointment
of these consultants and experts has been made a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit. The Government has also applied to UNDP for
assistance in providing training to existing technical staff and new
employees.
8.        The project for which the proposed credit would be made covers
all the works included in the Borrower's program up to July 1973 for the
expansion of local telephone exchanges and of international and long
distance communication facilities, the installation of telex facilities
and the employment of consultants to assist in the reorganization of NTB.
The project is technically sound and well-balanced and NTB will be capable
of carrying it out and operating the new facilities efficiently.
9.        The estimated total cost of the project is US$h.15 million
equivalent, of whAich Us$2.96 million represents the foreign exchange
component. The proposed credit would cover US$1.70 million of the foreign
exchange costs. The Government of ITepal will provide us$0.06 million
to cover certain existing commitments. The remaining foreign exchange
portion of US$1.20 million, as well as $0.58 million equivalent towards
the local costs, will be provided by the Government of India as a grant.
The conclusion of arrangements in this resoect have been made a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit. The balance of the local costs
of the project will be met from funds internally generated by NTB.
According to the financial projections contained in the Appraisal Report,
NITB will be able to reimburse the proceeds of the credit to the Government
over a twelve year period. Procurement of items to be financed from
the credit will be on the basis of international competitive bidding.
10.       On the basis of existing tariffs and of those to be established
for new facilities, the return on IMTB's net fixed assets in operation
is expected to be above 10% on completion of the project, compared with
a minimum of 8% required by the Credit Agreement. The incremental rate
of return on the project itself is estimated at 15%. The economic
benefits, although difficult to quantify, are likely to be considerably
higher, as shown in Chapter VI and Annex 17 of the Appraisal Report.
PART IV  -  IEGAL IIJTSTRUMMENTS AND AUTHORITY
11.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Nepal and the Association, the Recomniendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed developmen-t
credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 4 -
12.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms generally to
the pattern of agreements for telecommunications projects.   The following
provisions of the draft Development Credit Agreement are of special
interest:
(a) Section 4.05 (a) provides that the organization and
functions of NTB will be implemented and its operations
and activities carried out in accordance with the
criteria set out in Schedule 4 and under rules satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
(b)  Section t.o6 (a) requires NTB to adopt and put in
operation a commercial accounting system by not later
than July 16, 1970.
(c) Section 4.12 sets forth certain requirements as to
NTB's tariffs and fixes a minimum annual rate of return
of 8% for NTB beginning with its fiscal year commencing
in July 1973.
PART V - THE ECONONkiY
13.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Nepal"' (SA-7a) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on June 26, 1969.
14.       Less than twenty years ago Nepal was an isolated feudal kingdom.
Since then some progress has been made, particularly in infrastructure
(roads, irrigation and power), education, and, to a lesser extent,
agriculture. Nevertheless, the country is in a very early stage of
development. Per capita income is of the order of $US45-65, one of the
lowest in the world. The population of about 11 million appears to be
growing at about 2 percent per year, and gross national product has
proba.bly not increased any faster.
15.       Economic progress is difficult.  Three-quarters of the land
is hilly or mountainous and two-thirds of the people live there. All
forms of communication are very limited.  A system of main roads is being
built and penetration roads are planned, but most people live in isolated
conmunities and economic growth has been very localized.  Nepal has
fewz natural resources and economic growth in the first instance must
be based on agriculture, including water, and possibly forestry.
16.       Very low per capita incomes severely limits the Government's
ability to raise revenue, which is only about 4 percent of GNP. Government
revenue barely covers current expenditures and Nepal is therefore
largely dependent upon external sources to finance development. In
obtaining aid Nepal has been quite successful, and most of it has been



in the form of grants. Little use has been made of loans. Gold and conveTtel-
ible currency reserves are about $56 million,(more than five years of
imports payable in convertible currency). Most of Nepal's trade, however,
is with India and rice is the principal export. With improved terms
of trade, exports have increased substantially, which made it possible
to increase imports and consequently receipts from customs duties, but
this windfall is not likely to continue for long.
17.       The literacy rate in Nepal is probably no more than 10 percent
and the education system is badly out of balance.  Substantial efforts
are being made to increase school enrolment, but the structure of the
educational system needs adjustment, particularly by increasing
training for middle-level technicians.
18.       The most immediate tasks for Nepal over the next several
years are to concentrate on obtaining higher returns from the roads and
other new investments, increasing research in agriculture and diversifying
the economy by developing the forests and tourism.
PART VI-    COMPLIANCE IWITH ARTICLES OF AGREE1MENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit wfould comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO1ThETDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Attachment                             Robert S. McNamara
President.



