CviIbL
RESTRICTED
FILE                             Report No.  PU- 16a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS EXPANSION PROGRAM
NEPAL
October 7, 1969
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1      - NRs 10.125
US$0.0987 - NRs 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
ends mid-July (varying with Nepalese calendar)
-LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT
ARF             - A Swedish Ericsson crossbar telephone exchange system
CB              - Central battery (manual telephone exchange)
CCITT           - Comite Consultatif International Telegraphique et
Telephonique
COPPERWELD WIRE - Copper wire with a steel core
DROP WIRE       - Insulated single pair cable used for subscribers' dis-
tribution
ERLANG (E)      - The unit of telephone traffic (3,600 call seconds)
HF              - High frequency
LUtS            - Line units - exchange terminations
ISP             - Independent sideband
ITU             - International Telecommunication Union
Kw              - Kilowatt
NTB             - Nepal Telecommunications Board
NTD             - Nepal Telecommunications Department
PBX             - Private branch exchange
PVC             - Polyvinyl chloride (a plastic insulant)
RNAC            - Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation
SHF             - Super high frequency
SSB             - Single sideband
STD             - Subscriber trunk dialing (long-distance)
TELEX           - Teleprinter exchange service
UHF             - Ultra high frequency
USAID           - United States Agency for International Development
UNDP            - United Nations Development Programme
VHF             - Very high frequency



MEPAL
APPRAISAL CF THE TELECGO1    CATIO?1S EXP'NSI0T ROGRAI
Table of Contents
Page No.
SIARY                                                          i-i
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                      1
2. TIIE BENEFICIARY                                                   2
History and Structure                                             2
Staff Establishment, Training and Technical Assistance            4
3. FlANCIACL ASPECTS                                                  5
Accounting and Auditing                                           5
Present Financial Position                                        6
Tariffs                                                           7
Past Financial Performance                                        8
4. EXISTING FACILITIES                                                9
A. Local Facilities                                               9
B.  Internal Long-distance Facilities                            10
C.  International Facilities                                     10
D.  Internal Telegraph Service                                   10
E.  International Telegraphs                                     10
W. THE PROJECT                                                       10
Procurement and Disbursements                                    14
6.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                           1I
7.  FUTURE FfINANCES                                                 16
Financing Plan                                                   16
Future Financial Position and Operating Results                  17
Rate Covenant                                                    18
8.  COIJCLusIONs AnD RECOinENDATIONS                                 18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Nepal which was made in January/February 1969 and was composed of
Nessrs. C. R. Dickenson and H. B. lNIeier of the Bank.



LIST OF ANMTEXES
1. Telephone Forecasts
2. Facilities Existing and Presently under Provision
3. Staff Organization within Department
4. Job Description - Controller of Administration,
Personnel and Business Office
5. Job Description - Financial Advisor/Controller
6. Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
7. Timetable for Employment of Consultants and Setting up the Organization
of the Nepal Telecommunications Board (NTB)
8. Pro Forma Balance Sheet Fiscal Years 1966/1974
9. Pro Forma Profit and Loss Statement Fiscal Years 1966-1974
10. Revenue Forecast
11. Expenditure Estimate and Forecast
12. Sources and Applications of Funds  Fiscal Years 1966-19714
13. Tariffs
114. Development Project 1968/69-1972/73
15. Traffic and Engineering Design Factors
16. Number of Telephone Lines and Stations based on Project Provision
17. Economic Justification
MAP 1 - HF Radio and Line Networks
MAP 2 - Telephone Development - Long-distance Routes and Exchanges



TEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECO4UNICATIONS EXPANSIOM PROGRAI
SUNNA.RY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Excluding certain very small countries which have no telephone
service, Nepal has the lowest telephone density of any country in the world.
Because of topographical problems which make the development of surface and
air communications both difficult and costly, development of telecommunica-
tions is of more than usual importance to the economy. The project which
is appraised in this report covers the provision of a basic level of tele-
communications services to those parts of Nepal which have the greatest
economic significance and where improved communications are most urgently
required. The project only in part meets requirements for the country as
a whole, but is the largest one that can be undertaken with available re-
sources. With outside assistance and training to be provided under the pro-
ject, the Nepal Telecommunications Board CUST) is capable of :"ealizing the ob-
jectives.
ii.       The principal items included in the project are:
(a) provision and extension of telephone exchanges;
(b) provision of the associated local distribution
networks;
(c  provision of a long-distance trunk network to
Central, South and Eastern Nepal;
(d) improvement of international communications;
(e) provision of telex facilities in the Kathmandu
Valley area; and
(f)  employment of consultants to advise on and
design the organization of NTB and to intro-
duce a modern commercial accounting system.
IDA finance is involved in all items included in the project.
iii.      The project will be undertaken during the five-year period July 1968-
July 1973. Total project cost would be NRs 42.0 million (US$4.15 million)
with a foreign currency component of NRs 30.0 million (US$2.96 million).
The proposed credit would be for NRs 17.2 million (US$1.70 million), and
would cover the foreign exchange component of specific plant provisions in-
cluded in the project, costing in all NRs 22 million (US$2.17 million).
The lTepalese Telecommuxencations Board  (ITB) will finance the balance
of NIRs 4.8 million  (Us$0o.7 million)  covering local expenditure
for these works, and ilill also meet a foreign exchange cost of NRs 0.7
million  (US$0.07 million)  and a local expenditure of lTRs 1.3 million



-ii-
(US$0.13 million) in respect of certain on-going works included in the pro-
ject. Certain other works included in the project are being financed in
their entirety by Indian Government grants amounting to URs 12.1 million
(US$1.20 million) for the foreigi e cchange component and OEs 5.9 million
(US$o.58 million) for local expenditures.
iv.       The proposed borrower is the Government of Nepal, which will make
the funds available to lNTB which is being set up to exercise the telecom-
munications monopoly in Nepal.
v.        The technical standard of operation for the existing facilities,
which are extremely limited, is comparable with that in other developing
countries. The telecommunications organization is, however, overstaffed
and lacks the responsibilities, facilities and methods necessary for ef-
fective management; there is, therefore, a need to develop an effective
organization, as well as provide a modern accounting system. This resulted
in the decision to set up a telecommunications board and employ consultants
to advise on and assist in its organization.
vi.       The telecommunications operations have not been profitable in
the past. Upon completion of this project, however, a rate of return of ap-
proximately 10%i is expected.  The economic rate of return is likely to ex-
ceed 40%. On the basis of the financial position which the mission esta-
blished and nrojected, MTB will be able to provide from self-generated funds
most of the local expenditure for the project and for future expansion, and
will also be in a position to assume responsibility for the servicing of
its debt.
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit to the Nepalese Govern-
ment of NRs 17 million (US$1.7 million) to be made available to ITB for a
period of 12 years including a grace period of 2 years at an interest rate
of 6 1/2%. The period for repayment proposed is considered reaJistic in
the light of the likely cash position.
viii.     All purchases under the credit will be subject to international
competitive bidding.



iLL?AL
APPRAISAL OF TTIE TELECO11tA4ICTIOV:3 EXPAMTSIO)IT PROGRAM1
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Kingdom of lIepal forms an east-west rectangle between China
(Tibet) to the north and India to the south. The country, extending as
it does from the Terai plains in the south through the Siwalik Hills and
Mahabharat Mountains to the peaks of the Himalayas and the Tibetan border,
is subject to both topographical and climatic extremes. The economy is
essentially agricultural, with a large part of the commercial production
concentrated in the fertile Eastern Terai where some 800,000 hectares are
under cultivation. Efforts to develop industry and manufacture have been
largely concentrated in the Eastern and Central Terai adjoining the border
with India, and in the Kathmandu Valley area.
1.02      For more than a century, until 1951, Nepal was largely isolated
from the rest of the world; association and communication with other
countries were forbidden. This has been a major factor in restricting
the development of communications.
1.03      The country's topographical features create great difficulties
in the development of road and rail communications and in the provision of
safe all-weather aircraft landing facilities, thereby increasing their
cost. This, in a relatively poor country, gives added emphasis to the
need for adequate telecommunications facilities in those places wihere com-
munications are of vital importance to the further development of the
country.
1.04      Nepal's telephone density is about .025 per 100 people  - the
lowest recorded figure for any country with a telephone network. Only
three telephone exchanges exist, t-wo in the Kathmandu Valley area and the
other at Biratnagar. The only long-distance internal communication net-
works are a single-wire telegraph land line, use of rhich ha:- been largely
abandoned, and point-to-point radio links largely used for telegraph pur-
poses. Limited international telegraph and telephone facilities are
available via high frequency (HF) radio systems operating to India and
Pakistan.
1.05      The apparent priorities for the development of telecommunications
in Nepal are (a) the provision of local exchange networks in the larger
towns with the greatest agricultural and industrial significance, (b) the
interconnection of these and existing netwlorks via a reliable and satis-
factory trunk system, and (c) the improvement of international communications.
1.06      Since the reopening of the country in 1951, there have been
various plans for the development of telecommunications in Nepal, commencing
with a USAID project put in hand in 1958 and completed in 1964 at a cost of
some US$3.0 million equivalent. A verbal request by the Nepalese Government
in May 1966 for an IDA Credit to finance telecommunications development was
based on a United Nations team's recommendations, in 1966, for major exten-
sions to the network. These proposals were examined in October 1966 by



-2-
Mr. R. N. Wlalsh of the Bank s Projects Department, who felt that the pro-
posals were unrealistic and that,before a project could be developed fur-
ther,outside expert advice was desirable. A written request for IDA as-
sistance was made on December 19, 1967, but, at this stage, no further
outside advice had been obtained. However, following appointment of an
ITU advisor in tay 1968, 1Mr. C. R. Dickenson visited Nepal in June 1968
and recommended that consideration should be given to the possibility of
IDAls financing the provision of trunk service and limited exchange pro-
visions in Central Nepal and in the Southern and Eastern Terai.
1.07      The mission's examination of the development plan submitted by
Nepal indicated a need to (a) relate it to demographic and economic factors;
(b) coordinate the proposals with works to be undertaken with Indian grants
in aid; (c) ensure that the program was a balanced one with adequate
utilization of plant; and (d) relate it to a realistic timetable for execu-
tion.  The mission therefore prepared a study (see Annex 1) weighted in re-
lation to demographic;  industrial, economic and administrative factors,
and indicating the likely telephone capacity and long-distance circuit
requirements over a period of time. Based on this document, a five-year
development project (including 1968/69) was produced, covering all provi-
sions including those to be made under Indian aid and agreed upon with the Ne-
pal Telecoim,munications Department (NTD) and the ministries concerned as sa-
tisfactorily meeting the more urgent needs and as being capable of realizatax.
1.08      Total expenditure for the project will amount to US$4.147 million.
The proposed Credit would make available US$1.7 million equivalent; this
'will be wholly for foreign exchange expenditure, and will be the first fi-
nancing by the liorld Bank Group for any project in Nepal. As the Borrower,
the Government of Nepal would make the proceeds available to iYTB as the
beneficiary.
1.09      This report is based on information provided by NTD and on the
findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. C. R. Dickenson
and H. B. Mleier which visited Nepal in January/February 1969. Basic data
for the network are given in Annex 2 and Map 1.
2. THE BENEFICIARY - INEPAL TELECOXINUNICATIONS BOAR-D (Mim)
History and Structure
2.01      Commencing in the year 1913, single-wire overhead telegraph
lines were installed for administrative purposes from Kathmandu to Raxaul on
the Indian border,to Dhankuta in the east,and to Palpa in `Uhe wtest.  Fol-
lmiing the restoration of the monarchy in 1951, the lines to the east
and west were extended to Biratnagar and Bhairawa, respectively, and
limited public telegraph service was introduced together with a public
telephone service in the Kathmandu area. Subsequently, HF radio communi-
cations were provided to India and to six of the main towns. The Nepal



-3-
Telecommunications Department (NTD), which formed part of the IMinistry of
Works, Transport and Communications, was established in 1959 to cooperate
with USAID in the construction of the initial phase of a modern telecommuni-
cations system, and subsequently take over responsibility for the operation
and further development of the networks. The Nepal Telecommunications Board
(NTB) -i- beiag created to take over the legal monopoly for the provision
and operation of the local, long-distance and international telephone and
telegraph networks.
2.02      The head of NTD was the Chief Engineer, who was responsible for
service and engineering functions and had certain limited financial respon-
sibilities. Annex 3 shows the departmental structure which had developed
over the years. The Chief Engineer had three assistants covering adminis-
tration, accounts, and international services. Three divisional engineers
are responsible for the operating and planning functions. The Denartment's
structure allowed for very little management control and virtually no fi-
nancial control.
2.03      Although the incorporation of telecommunications in the Govern-
ment administrative structure had, during the early years of NTDts opera-
tions, offered certain advantages in the common use of facilities, it had
become apparent that, to become efficient, IITD must have a well-defined
organization and modern management tools such as an adequate accounting
system. In addition, it needed improved performance standards and produc-
tivity that could not easily be introduced within the departmental structure.
Changing the norms and setting up an adequate organization under the old
structure would have inevitably delayed the operation of the proposed credit
and thus the urgently needed development of telecommunications.
2.04      Efforts to introduce a formal training and career program for
civil servants are of recent date; although good progress has been made,
priority understandably is being given to general administrative problems.
A considerable period is likely to elapse before adequate organizations
can be developed within the civil service structure for those departments
which should operate along normal business lines.  Government has set up
a number of public utility corporations which, despite initial "teething"
troubles, have made considerable progress, and introduced reasonable or-
ganizational and financial practices. An Administrative Reforms Commission
has however recently submitted a report in which it is recommended that
any further corporate bodies which may be set up to run Government-owned
businesses should consist of boards coming within overall bid-etar- arpropria-
t±onsvbUJ, in other respects, having the authorities, responsibilities and
internal financial autonomy of a corporation.
2.05      The Nepalese Government has agreed during negotiations that re-
organization of NTD as a board should be undertaken with the assistance of
consultants, and the statute incoroorating the board is now being final-
ized for promulgation in the Nepal Gazette. Draft tenrs of reference
for the consultants (see Annex 6) were prepared and used by Government in
seeking consultantst proposals.  A timetable foi, setting vp the organi7ation



-14-
of the Board has been established and agreed during the negotiations (see
Annex 7). In order to facilitate the reorganization, the Government has
applied for two experts under the Colombo Plan - one to take charge of fi-
nancial procedures, the other to take over business and administration.
Job descriptions, which will form the basis of these two appointments, are
attached as Annexes 4 and 5.
2.06      In view of the importance of this reorganization, Government has
entered into a covenant that the consultants will be appointed and the re-
quired experts and accounting assistance will be obtained (paras. 2.05 and
3.04) before the credit becomes effective.
Staff Establishment and Training
2.07      At the time of the appraisal in February 1969, a reduction in the
authorized establishment from 1,204 to 1,111 was under way. A considerable
proportion of the present establishment, estimated at 670 or 60%, is em-
ployed in maintaining and operating the telegraph services. The present level
of telephone staff of 440 or 40% is about 180 per thousand telephone stations,
whereas administrations in other countries range from a low of 10 to a high
of 130 employees per thousand stations. The Department faces certain special
problems such as a widely spread low density network, serious transportation
problems, low paid and inadequately qualified staff, short hours of duty,
many special holidays, absenteeism, etc. Improved productivity, however,
is essential to future successful operation. Agreement was reached during
the negotiations that, after providing for reorganization and introduction
of new technical equipment and methods, for which an increase of 50 addi-
tional staff would be appro-riate, the Government will not, except after
consultation with IDA, permit any further increase in staff until July 1973,
and thereafter will limit staff increases (a) in the telephone section to
50% of the present staff ratio in respect of additional stations, and (b) in
the telegraph section to 50%0 of the present ratio in respect of additional
telegraph messages handled.
2.08      The technical staff employed at executive level, down to and in-
cluding the Assistant Engineers, is reasonably competent.  This is a result
of the Governmentls policy of providing university scholarships for selected
persons who agree to enter government service.  Each year, five to six of
these scholarships are allocated for teleconmmications.  Also, three to
four graduates are sent overseas for post-graduate telecommunications train-
ing.
2.09      The situation is not quite as satisfactbory in respect of the tech-
nician grades. But NTD has done what it can to improve standards and has
operated a small school providing limited vocational instruction to
existing technical staff and new employees. The United Nations telecommunica-
tions advisor is formulating plans for the extension of these facilities.
An application for UNDP assistance is expected to be forwarded by not later
than the end of October 1969. liHoever, in order to ensure adequate standards



for installation and subsequent maintenance of equipment to be provided
under the project, a limited provision has been made therein for overseas
training of selected personnel.
3.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Accounting and Auditing
3.01      The Telecommunications Department did not maintain an accounting
system. Some elements of a government budget system have been introduced
over the past few! years to record cash expenditures and cash receipts, but
even the very limited data available in Devanagari script could not be
checked or discussed in any detail because NTD did not have any financial
officer, none of the actual staff in the budget section understood any for-
eign language, and nobody was trained in modern accounting or met the speci-
fic requirements set by Government for the corresponding positions. The
Department did not control its cash. Cash collections were transferred to
Government s Consolidated Fund, and expenditures were met from this fund
according to budget allocations. As long as telecommunications operations
were on a very small scale, this position could be accepted.
3.02      The only significant accounting work done by NTD besides budget
preparation was billing. The billing procedure for local telephone service
is particularly in need of modernization. Bills are not prepared on a
key-day and sent out to the subscribers. Instead, each non-government
subscriber 1. a card on which the charges for the past month are recorded
as and when the subscriber presents the card to pay the charges for the
month preceding that month.  This neither pe:2r%mts  efficient billing pro-
cedures nor provides up-to-date information on the status of accounts re-
ceivable. It also takes up to two months before all charges are entered
into a ledger, and subscribers in default c an be disconnected.  ITB must
be provided with an efficient billing system.
3.03      Pre-auditing of the expenditure accounts is an obligation of the
Accountant Generalts Department. However, no pre-audited figures are avail-
able for the past two years. This function will be exercised by the futu-re
Internal Control Division of NTB. This wrill expedite the process and make
it a valuable tool of management.
3.04      In view of the deficiencies in accounting, it was agreed that the in-
troduction of a modern coimnercial system should be undertaken with the assis-
tance of the consultants (see para. 2.05 and 2.06 and also Annexes 6 and 7).
Short, after the consultants begin their wiork, an expatriate financial expert
proposed to be financed with Colombo Plan funds for a period of three to five
years (para. 2.06) will take charge of all ITB 's financial affairs, reporting
directly to the chief executive. In addition, a staff of at least five profes-
sionals trained in rmodern accounting will be needed from the beginning to



-6-
allow the accounting system to become operative immediately after intro-
duction. The Borrower has undertaken to employ five or six qualified ac-
countants who are conversant with the local script and language to function
as a link between consultants, experts, and NTB's staff, and work in Kath-
mandu for a period of two to three years. In addition, Government under-
takes to train Nepalese staff in modern accounting. The accounting system
will become operative at the latest on July 16, 1970 when the budget ac-
counts maintained by IRTB will te 2iscon5inmued .    the fo5Lrc) f'-ds discon-
~;let3fd Irc-.i the 'onsolidc td '1 Lned. Thuc mnz=-zl Govern-ment budget zillk
novever, c'l o sio-: the Bo-rct total retvc'aies anc. expenditures in the future.
3.05      According to Article 75 of the Constitution, the Auditor General
is required to audit all government accounts.  There are, however, no audited
figures available for the past three years, and it is understood from a
discussion with the Auditor General t'nat his office could not do the audit-
ing within a period acceptable to IDA.  Agreement has been reached during
negotiations that NTB's financial statement will be audited annually by a
qualified auditor acceptable to IDA, and that audited figures will be made
available to IDA within five months after the end of the fiscal year. In
view of the scarcity and poor quality of financial data available, the De-
partment was not required to present audited figures for any period prior to
July 16, 1970. Since the financial structure of NTB will be put on a new
footing, this will not jeopardize the project.
Present Financial Position
3.06      Because neither accurate nor complete information was available
to allow any financial analysis, notional financial statements have been
prepared by the Associationts staff constructed with information from various
sources and with assumptions or analogies tested with samples taken. Es-
timates of the plant value for the past are mainly based on information pro-
vided by foreign aid missions, whereas current expenditures and revenues
were arrived at by adjusting budget figures. Detailed notes on assumptions
and calculations made for constructing the notional figures are attached
to the financial statements in Annexes 8 to 13. The notional figures are
believed to give a reasonably accurate picture of the entityts financial
situation.
3.07      According to the pro forma balance sheet in Annex 8, NTD's plant
in operation as of July 16, 1968, the end of that fiscal year, had a value
of NRs 37.0 million;  the depreciation reserve was NRs 6.6 million.  This
value was assessed by taking the cost of equipment financed by the USAID
and estimating the value of equipment otherwise financed, adjusting it for
the recent devaluation of the Nepalese ruDee. This tentative valuation
will be reviewed by the consultants (Annex 6).  Current assets were esti-
mated at TRs 0.4 million. This does not include minor arrears of govern-
ment departments or civil servants, which NTB will not take over as assets.
In the past, all capital expenditures were financed by the Central Government,
mostly with the help of foreign grants. No loans or credits were assumed



-7-
for the Department. The balancing item to the assets is therefore shown
as equity. A summary of NTDts pro forma balance sheet as of July 16, 1968,
shows the following position:
NRs million
Net fixed assets                                30.4
Current assets                                   0.4
Total assets                               30.5
Equity                                          30.8
Total liabilities                          307
Tariffs
3.08      The tariffs which have been established are for domestic and in-
ternational telegraph and telephone services. The present local telephone
charge is NRs 40 (us$4.o) per month including 100 local calls and NRs 0.2
(2g) per call thereafter, which appears to be adequate. Most domestic trunk
calls, if made, are routed over the HF radio system, for which a flat rate
of NRs 5 per ordinary three-minute call is charged. Upon introduction of
the new trunk lines, a distance-related tariff will be introduced, as well
as a tariff for the telex service. Tariffs (Annex 13) which are thought to
be reasonable were agreed during the negotiations. This rate structure was
used for the revenue projections and is shown in Annex 13, which also shows
previous tariffs. The adequacy of these tariffs can only be judged fully
when the accounting system is introduced and details of the cost structure
become available, and it has been agreed that no changes will be made during
the project period without prior consultation with the Association. After
the project is in service and adequate data available, all tariffs should be
reviewed and the results reported to the Association. Tariffs for domestic
service are set by the Ministry of Finance on the advice of the Ministry of
Communications; tariffs for international services are set by agreement.
An agreement with India provides that Nepal receives NRs 6.75 for each inter-
national telephone call to and from India, and NRs 0.3 per word for trans-
fer cables through India. For cables to and from India and for telephone
and telegraph services to Pakistan, sender-keep-all agreements operate.
3.09      In the past, Government has not been charged for domestic telephone
and telegraph services, and senior civil servants have paid only 25% of
normal charges for local residential telephone service. It w:as agreed that
these concessionz would be discontinued from July 1969 and all subscribers
will be charged( the same rates.
3.10      Also, bills to the Government were paid by book adjustments in
the Ministry of Finance. But these entries could only be finalized after
the prescribed pre-auditing and auditing procedures were terminated. To
avoid such delays, it has been agreed that, beginning July 1969, Government
will pay its bills on a current basis within the same time limits as other



-8-
subscribers. Whatever outstandings there were before rmid-July 1969 are
left to the Finance Ministry for adjustment, whereas the new board inherits
only the outstanding receivables from private subscribers. This will avoid
for NTB the difficulties some corporations had at the beginning of their
existence. NTB will have to pay other government departments for all ser-
vices rendered.
3.11      Subscribers have, in the past, had to buy their own telephone
sets, usually from NTD. When a subscriber gave up service or wsanted a new
telephone set, NTD purchased the old set from him; this raised administra-
tive problems in appraising the value of old telephone sets, and in storing
and reselling them. NTB will discontinue this arrangement and require each
subscriber to make a deposit of NRs 500, repayable upon the subscriberts
giving up of service.
Past Financial Performance
3.12      According to the estimates prepared by IDA staff, NTD was running
at a loss over the past few years. The five main factors responsible for
the loss were the very small size of operations, the low rentals charged
until July 1968, the Government's exemption from payment of charges for
domestic services, the fact that the less profitable telegraph service was
predominant within NTDIs operations, and the high number of staff employed.
As pointed out in paragraph 3.09, full charges should be paid by all sub-
scribers beginning July 1969. The planned expansion of telephone services
under the present project, together with the agreed restrictions on staff
increases and the abandonment of the old land line, will improve the staff
situation.
3.13      In the past three years, 62% of NTDIs revenues were earned by
the telegraph services and only 38% by telephone services. International
telegraph service accounted for only two-fifths of total telegraph revenues,
but its share has been growing rapidly over the past three years. In the
absence of a long-distance network, local telephone services account for
most of the telephone revenues.
3.14      The following is a summary of the notional profit and loss state-
ment in Annex 9, covering the past three years:
VTRs Million
Fiscal Year ending mid-July:    1966    1967    1968
Revenues                          1.7     2.1     2.3
Current expenditures             (1.7)   (2.1)   (2.1)
Depreciation                     (1.6)   (1.7)   (1.8)
Net loss                    (1.6)   (1.7)   (1.6)



- 9 -
As the table shows, revenues were just sufficient to cover current expendi-
tures, but were not able to cover depreciation charges or a return on in-
vested capital. This meant that practically all capital expenditures had
to be financed from the Consolidated Government Fund (see Sources and Appli-
cations of Funds, Annex 12).
4. EXISTING FACILITIES
A. Local Facilities
4.01       Under a USAID grant, a modern 1,000-line crossbar exchange was
installed at :Thatantandu replacing the then existing manual central battery
(CB) exchange, and was brought into service on April 13, 1962. The reco-
vered CB exchange was then transferred and installed at Biratnagar. The
Kathmandu exchange has since been extended to a capacity of 4,400 lines
using funds made available by the Nepalese Government, and a 600-line
satellite crossbar exchange brought into service at Patan. The exchanges
at Kathmandu and Patan are of a modern type, in good condition, but there
is concern regarding the long-term effects of rather serious dust conditions;
hence priority should be given to the provision of more effective air con-
ditioning and dust filtering units. The standard of service given by these
exchanges is generally good. The 300-line CB exchange at Biratnagar is now
being extended by an additional 100-line units (LU), but will be replaced
with automatic equipment under the program.
4.02       Where requirements for the planning period can be met by a single
cable, the distribution networks are either of armored cable laid directly
in the ground, or aerial cable. Where multiple cableways are required,
concrete ducts have been laid. These give rise to a serious problem in that
they are not sufficiently watertight for use in an area such as Kathmandu
where the water table is only slightly below surface level.  An alterative
which might be considered is the use of polythene or glass fiber tubes laid
in concrete.
4.03       Although wooden poles have been used in the past, these have
given trouble due to the absence of adequate preservative-impregnating
facilities, and the poles presently erected are of the galvanized steel-
sheet type fabricated in India and are satisfactory. Copper weld wire is
being used for the new main trunk provisions, such as the line between
Kathmandu and Birgunj but almost all local distribution is effected using
polyvinyl choloride (PVC) drop wire. This is generally satisfactory, but,
in order to ensure satisfactory transmission open wire distribution should
be adopted for the longer lines.
4.o4       Due to the previous arrangements under which the subscriber's ap-
paratus had to be purchased by him, there has been a tendency to introduce
a number of different types of instruments.In order to limit further diver-
sification under internationalcompetitive tendering arrangements, it is
desirable to order telephone instruments in bulk with deliveries phased as
required. A 300-line crossbar private branch automatic exchange (PBX) is
installed at the main government offices; all other PBX's in the country
are small manual ones.



-10-
B. Internal Long Distance Facilities
4.05      The existing internal network consists of low power high fre-
quency (HF) point-to-point links. As of July 1968, there were seven area
controls and 50 dependent stations provided under the USAID scheme and located
throughout Nepal. This network is being extended to 13 area controls
and 73 dependent stations. The network can be used for point-to-point
telephone conversations, and by arrangement can be interconnected with the
telephone network at Kathmandu and Biratnagar. However, it is primarily
used for telegraph purposes.
C. International Facilities
4.o6      Radio telephone services are operating on a scheduled basis
between Kathmandu and Delhi, Calcutta, Dacca and Rawalpindi. A total of
four transmitters are available to operate these services together with
the scheduled radio telegraph services. Only one of the transmitters in
question has adequate power, i.e. 5 kilowatts (kw) and difficulty is ex-
perienced in offering a satisfactory standard of service.
D. Internal Telegraph Service
4.07      Service originally existed over the land line to Birgunj, Birat-
nagar, Pokhara, and Bhairawa, but use of this means of communications has
now virtually been abandoned following the development of the HF radio
network. The HF network has already been described in this report; the
equipment operates with a reasonable degree of efficiency, although there
are certain operational problems due to the fact that M4orse transmission
is restricted to English language telegrams and the Devanagari script
telegrams are transmitted verbally with frequent corruption of subject
matter.
E. International Telegraphs
4.o8      International service using equipment described heretofore is
maintained on a scheduled basis from Kathmandu to Delhi, Dacca and Calcutta.
5. THE PROJECT
5.01      The project covers all works included in the borrower's inte-
grated program to be undertaken during the period July 1968-July 1973,
and is set out in detail under the main headings in Annex 14. The following
are the principal items included in the project:
(a)  4,640 exchange terminations (3,600 automatic,
1,040 manual);  the associated distribution
networks and connection of 5,745 telephones;
(b)  land line carrier routes, Kathmandu-Hetaura-Birgunj
and Kathmandu-Bhaktapur; super-high frequency (SHF)
and ultra-high frequency (UHF) radio trunk systems
between Kathmandu and Birgunj, Malangwa, Janakpur-,



-11-
Rajbiraj, Jhapa, Dharan, Biratnagar, Bhairawa and
Pokhara, with a total of 70 circuits; a very high
frequency (VHF) scatter system, Kathmandu-Pulchowki
to Biratnagar; an HF radio-telephone link to
Nepalganj; completion of the extensions to the
domestic HF radio telephone/telegraph network;
(c) a new international trunk exchange at Kathmandu;
land line and carrier international routes between
Nepal and India from Birgunj to Raxaul and from
Biratnagar to Jogbani; improvement of the HF radio-
telephone system to New Delhi; an international
telex switchboard at Kathmandu;
(d) telex facilities for up to 50 subscribers at Kath-
mandu;
(e) the necessary buildings for the technical instal-
lations;
(f)  miscellaneous facilities such as vehicles, train-
ing tools, etc;
(g) employment of consultants.
This project will largely meet the essential outstanding demand for addi-
tional and improved local, long-distance and international service in the
areas it will cover. It is technically sound and capable of implementa-
tion by 1PM over the scheduled period of five years from July 1968. Cer-
tain traffic and engineering design factors on which the project has been
based are outlined in Annex 15. Likely attainments in the provision of
lines and stations over the plan period are set out in Annex 16. It is
probable there will be further local expenditure in fiscal year 1972/73
in respect of provision of buildings for the next main development plan,
which has yet to be formulated.
5.02      The following schedule summarizes the cost of the project under
the main headings:



-12-
% of
Total
NRs '000                   US$ '000        Expen-
Local   Foreign   Total     Local Foreign  Total diture
1. Telephone
exchange LUts
(3,600 auto-
matic, 1,040
manual)         1,203.8  3,928.5  5,132.4      118.9   388.0   506.9  12.2
2. Local dis-
tribution
network         1,358.8  3,300.8  4,659.5      134.2  326.0  460.2  11.1
3. Subscribers
connections
and apparatus     175.2  1,219.1  1,394.3       17.3  120.4   137.7   3.3
4. Long-distance   4,323.4 15,136.8 19,460.2      427.0 1,495.0 1,922.0  h6.3
5. International     212.6   972.0  1,184.6        21.0   96.o   117.0   2.8
6. Telegrams and
telex              86.1    506.2   592.3         8.5   50.0   58.5   1.4
7. Buildings       4,570.4    648.0  5,218.4      451.4   64.0  515.4  12.4
8. Vehicles,
tools,
training aids         -  1,3)46.6  1,346.6         -   133.0   133.0   3.3
9. Consultants        81.0  1,012.5  1,093.5        8.0  100.0   108.0  2.6
10. Contingencies         -  1,907.6  1,907.6          -   188.4   188.4   h.6
Total     12,011.3 29,978.1 41,989.4   1,186.3 2,960.8 4,147.1 100.0
There is a justifiable concentration of expenditures (46%) on the long-
distance network for which no provisions have previouLsly been made and which
is now a first priority. The other divisions of expenditures are in line
with normal trends for telecommunications projects. The employment of con-
sultants provided for under the credit is an important factor in ensuring
that the new board can operate efficiently and undertake full responsibility
for the project.
5.03      The foreign exchange and local cost of the project as a whole
amounts to NRis 41.989 million (US$4.147 million), and would be financed as
set out in para. 7.01. The proposed IDA credit would meet about 57% of the
foreign currency requirements for the execution of the project. Separate
contingency provisions have only been shown in respect of the IDA credit.
In the case of the Indian aid and NTB provisions, contingencies are allowed
for in the individual items of expenditure.



-13-
5.04       Details and estimated costs of the parts of the project proposed
for financing under the IDA credit are shown in the table below. The com-
plementary local expenditure, although not financed by IDA is also shown.
NRs '000                    TJS$ '000
Local   Foreign  Total        Local  -Foreign   Total
1. Telephone ex-
changes             226.8  1,154.3  1,381.1        22.4    114.0    136.4
2. Local distribu-
tion network        356.4  1,275.8  1,632.2        35.2    126.0    161.2
3. Subscribers con-
nections and
apparatus           110.4    783.7    894.1        10.9     77.4      88.3
4. Long distance
iecrowave UHF
and VHF systems   1,589.6  9,132.8 10,722.4       157.0    902.0  1,059.0
5.  International        10.1      50.6     60.7        1.0       5.0      6.0
6. Telegrams and
telex                86.1    506.3    592.4         8.5     50.0      58.5
7. Buildings          2,379.4         -  2,379.4      235.0         -    235.0
8. Vehicles,
tools,
training aids           -  1,346.6  1,346.6           -    133.0    133.0
9.  Consultants          81.0  1,012.5  1,093.5         8.0    100.0    108.0
10.  Contingencies            - 1,907.6  1,907.6            -    188.4    188.4
Total        4,839.8 17,170.2 22,010.0       478.0  1,695.8  2,173.8
The estimates of costs are based on the ITU telecommunications advisor's
analysis of recent world tender prices, and are thought to be reasonable.  An
allowance of 12 1/2% however has been made for contingencies. The borrower
has accepted a covenant that NTB will not, prior to completion of the pro-
posed project, embark upon any new major expansion exceeding US$100,000 in
any fiscal year without agreement with the Association. This restriction
will also apply to the building provisions to be made in 1972/73. With
the technical assistance provided by the Indian Aid Mission in carrying
out their part of the project, the advice of the ITU advisor, who is being
made available to Nepal for a further period of two years, the supply of



installers by the equipment manufacturers who will work -with I1TB staff in
construction of the items covered by the Association credit, and certain ad-
ditional overseas training provided for under the project, DTB should be
able to satisfactorily carry out the project and meet the target dates for
completion.
Procurement and Disbursements
5.05      All purchases under the credit will be suibject to international
competitive bidding. NTB has limited experience in such procedures, but,
under the reorganization plan, it is proposed to set up an administrative
stores and procurement section. The ITU telecommmnications advisor is
providing assistance in the meantime and no difficulty should be experi-
enced.
5.06      Disbursements under the credit would'ie made for the CIF cost of
imported materials and equipment required for the project and for the for-
eign exchange costs of consultants' services and overseas training.
5.07      Items to be made available through Ind.an aid will be shipped
directly to the Indian construction teams for installation. The completed
installations will be subject to inspection and take-over by NTBIs staff.
5.o8      It has been normal practice in Nepal in connection with public
utility development projects for Government to waive customs and surtax
duties; the Government intends to continue these arrangements for this
project.
5.09      If any overall savings in expenditure for the various items pro-
posed for IDA financing should be realized, the undisbursed amount of the
credit would be reduced by a corresponding amournt.
6. ECONOIMIC JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The lack of adequate communications facilities is a major obstacle
to Nepal's economic development.  IWhereas significant investments are being
made in the country's road system, telecommunications have been neglected.
Government has decided that telecommunications should be developed to com-
plement the transportation system. Under the proposed five-year project,
roughly US$0.8 million per annum, or about 2% of the country's planned total
investment, has been assigned to telecommunications, the main limitation
being NTB's capacity to provide and operate the facilities.
6.02     lWithin this limitation and in the light of topographical considera-
tions, the choice of the priority areas is straightforwiard. In Nepal, there
are two strips of fertile, cultivable and populated land - the iiiidlands and
the Terai, separated by the Siwalik Hills and Mahabharat Mountains, and li-
mited in the north by the Himalayas and in the south by India. In the Mid-
lands, there is only one place with very high fertility and high concentration



-15-
of people and industries:  -i XaK  -;idu V;d31e--.  It,lviandu  i:'!rntl i
biggest town, the seat of Government, the main tourist attrac.ioan and the
main trade center situated in the middle of the country;  tlle town therefore
has every advantage of becoming the center of a network. In the Midlands
there is only one other major town, Pokhara, a trade center with tourist po-
tential.
6.03      Besides the lack of any significant population agglomeration in
the hills, a series of economic considerations led to the planning of the
main trunk lines to the Terai. As of 196,8 only 2l of the total area of
Nepal was under cultivation.  Of this, almost tiro=-thirc3 Sxi  i:1 t2e To--
rai and only slightly more than one-'u ir-  in the hills.  All important cash
crops such as jute, sugar, oilseeds and tobacco are mainly or exclusively
grown in the eastern Terai, which is also the most important rice-growing
area. Rice accounts for about two-fi:"ths of the total agricultural produc-
tion. The eastern Terai is also responsible for much of Nepal's exports.
6.Qh      In the selection of the towns to be connected and the decision as
to the number of telephones to be provided, concentration of population and
the importance of industry, tourism, administration and agriculture were
taken into consideration. Out of Nepal's 75 districts, the 14 districts to
be connected by the new trunk lines have 74% of all industrial establishments,
which produce 80% of the total industrial output. Located in these 14 dis-
tricts are all industries employing more than 100 persons, as well as 87% of
all industrial wage-earners. Biratnagar, at the eastern end of the main
trunk line, is responsible for over 27% of value added in industry, while
all "project districts" account for 77% of total value added in Nepalese
industry.
6.05      The paucity and inadequacy of existing services did not permit the
relating of future requirements to past growth trends. The relationship of
population, economic activities and telephone densities based on experience
in other developing countries was therefore utilized in preparing Annex 1.
New Delhi had in 1967 a telephone density per 100 persons of 2.8 and Rawal-
pindi/Islamabad 2.3; the target for Kathmandu by 1973 has been set at 2.5.
IJhereas the density in 1967 for more important towns in India and Pakistan
ranges from 0.8 to 2.5, the planned ratio in Nepal by 1973 is 0.5 to 1.75.
The average density of the whole country is at present 0.025 per 100 persons;
excluding certain very small countries and Pacific Islands which have no net-
works whatsoever, this is the lowest in the world.  After completion of the
project in 1973, the density will still be one of the lowest with 0.08 per
100 persons. In the case of likely long-distance traffic levels - and again
due to the virtual absence of a long-distance telephone network - the provi-
sion of circuits under the program has been related to an originated traffic
figure per subscriber of 1.5 minutes per day, as against a latest figure
(1965/66) for Pakistan of 1.75. From the alternative routings and technical
provisions, the optimum solutions were chosen. The various items as outlined
in Annex 15 covering engineering and traffic design factors are well-balanced.
6.06      The incremental rate of return for this project of 15% - the in-
terest rate which discounts the additional revenue and expenditure flows
arising from the project investment to their present value (Annex 17, page 1)
- is an indication of the minimum benefits to the economy that can be expected.



-16-
The economic benefits however are likely to be considerably high-r. The
prices paid for telecommunications services do not in many cases reflect
their full value. This is illustrated in the examples given be2ow which
show likely direct benefits to the economy from the various facilities pro-
vided under this project (they are described in more detail in Annex 17,
page 3).
- The improved international connections and the new trunk line to
Biratnagar should allow the Nepalese jute industry to increase
its export earnings by about NRs 5 million per annum.
- The convertible foreign exchange earnings from tourism can be
doubled from NRs 7.6 to 15.2 million due to an increased inflow
of tourists; an additional NRs 2.8 million can be earned by
opening up Pokhara to foreign tourists.
- Additional earnings of NRs 5 million per annum on food exports
to India can conservatively be attributed to the new telecommu-
nications link.
Taking only these examples of more easily identifiable and quantifiable
likely benefits to the economy and adding them to the incremental return to
NTB, the economic rate of return would be 40%, suggesting that the pro-
ject is of very high economic priority.
7.  FUTtURE FB2\AICES
Financing Plan
7.01      The capital construction envisaged under the five-year program,
amounting to NRs 42.0 million (US$4.15 million), will be financed by the
proposed IDA Credit of NRs 17.2 million (US$1.70 million), an Indian grant
of NfRs 18.0 million (US$1.78 million), a contribution from Government budget
of NRs 0.2 million (US$0.02 million), and self-generated funds of NEs 6.6
million (US$0.65 million). A summary of total financial requirements and
sources of funds for the five-year period is shmwn below:
Uses of funds                                 IRs I-illion   US$ Million    %
Capital construction under project            41.99            4.15      87.4
Advance expenditure on next program            3.00            0.30       6.3
Increase of working capital including cash   3.05              0.30       6.3
Total                                   U8704           4757    100.0
Sources of funds
Internal cash generation           20.94
Less:  debt service                 (5.19)
Less: profit participation
paid out to Government  (5.49)
Own cash resources                            10.26            1.01      21.3
IDA Credit                                    17.17            1.70      35.8
Indian grant                                  17.99            1.78      37.5
Government budget                              0.21            0.02       0.4
Subscriberst deposits                          2.41            0.24       5.0
Total                                   47 -           _-75       100.0



-17-
Included under uses of funds is a provision of I\Rs 3.05 million for working
capital and NIRs 3 mill-.on for advance local expenditure likely to be neces-
sary in preparation for the next prograna. IDAks credit will finance 35.8%
and the Indian grant 37.5%, of total requirements under the five-year project,
while the rest will be financed by Nepal, most of it from cash generated
within NTB. An agreement with the Indian Government has already been reached
in respect of equipment to be supplied to the value of NRs 7.95 million
(US$0.79 million), and local expenditure of NRs 5.25 million (US$0.52 mil-
lion). An agreement regarding the balance of NRs 4.15 million (US$0.41 mil-
lion) for equipment and NRs o.6S million (US$0.06 million) for local costs,
together with certain adjustments in connection with the agreed integrated
plan, is under negotiation.  Prior to the credit being made effective,
evidence will be required that arrangements have been made to finance that
part of the project not financed by the credit.
7.02      The Indian grant is free of any charge.  The IDA credit to the
Nepalese Government will be made under normal terms and conditions and will
be made available after incorporation to NTB at an interest rate of
6 1/2%. As a result of Indiats financing part of the local expenditures for
the project and the introduction of subscribers' deposits, it is anticipated
that internal cash generation will be sufficient - after making provision for
the balance of local expenditures - for NTB to commence repayments to Govern-
ment after a two-year grace period and to complete repayments 12 years after
signing of the agreement.
Future Financial Position and Cperating Results
7.03      Projections of NTB s financial position and performance through
mid-July 1974 are shown in Annexes 8 to 12. Beginning with fiscal year
1970, MT  i  sho-von as a £inanci--ly s6lf-:_ontained enti-ty rith its olrn
i;reflecving rlovernnentl, d&c-L-ion to set u\ 17TDT. The  Thdian
grant, which is interest-free and does not need to be repaid, is shown as
becoming part of NTBts equity. With this concept, the debt/equity ratio
increases from 4/96 in 1970 to 24/76 in 1973.  This will allow NTB to as-
sume considerable additional debt for future expansion.
7.04      The Pro Forma Profit and Loss Statement in Annex 9 indicates that
the loss of NRs 0.65 million expected for the fiscal year 1969 will be con-
verted into a profit of NRs 1 million in fiscal 1970, which will grow to
NRs 6 million by 1974, when all parts of the project will be operative.
'Whereas the reduction of losses from fiscal 1968 to 1969 reflects mainly the
increase in telephone rentals, the conversion into profits between fiscal
1969 and 1970 reflects basically the beginning of Government payments. Be-
ginning in fiscal 1971, the new trunk lines gradually come into service. By
the year 1974, telegraph services will contribute only l5C to total revenues
and the trunk and international service will earn almost half (46%) of all
telephone revenues. The rate of return will increase from a negative result
in 1969 to l0.%/ in 197h. Interest is well covered by net income: 16.6 tim_>
in 197o, 4.2 in 1971 4.o in 1972, 5.0 in 1973, and 6,1 in 197I.



-18-
7.05      The limited existing long-distance facilities do not provide an
adequate basis for traffic projections. This forecast of operating results
must therefore be more tentative than would otherwise be the case. Another
element of unusual uncertainty is the effect on traffic of Government's
obligation to pay for the service -,oi0v--'.  It is thought, however, that
any negative effect would be offset by a higher calling rate due to the
expansion of the number of people who can be reached by telephone. NTB will
submit the consultants' opening balance of accounts as soon as it is avail-
able, and audited annual statements beginning with fiscal year 1971 wit'n
five months after the end of fiscal year.
7.06      Except for fiscal 1969, internal cash generation is sufficient
to cover all requirements not covered by the IDA credit and the Indian grant,
and to build up ample cash balances. In addition, there is sufficient sur-
plus left to allow the distribution of profits, to promote Government's
interest in NTB's successful management and to compensate for its investment.
Profit payments to Government will however only be made if all cash require-
ments for the following year are fully met. Debt service coverage is satis-
factory, reaching the lowest point in 1972 when internal cash generation is
2.3 times the debt service requirements. Government has agreed to obtain the
Association's consent for incurring additional debt for MNTB if the maximum
annual debt service in the future is not covered 1.5 times by net revenue
(before charging depreciation) of a 12-month period prior to the incurring
of new debt.
Rate Covenant
7.07      It has been agreed that, beginning with fiscal year 1974, the first
year when all the equipment provided under the project is operating, a rate
covenant will be applied requiring an annual return of not less than 8%.
This rate would provide NTB with sufficient cash to finance likely future
local expenditure. The rate would be calculated on average fixed assets in
operation and taking net income from operation after covering all operating
expenses including a straight-line depreciation of 5%. Until 1974, the
present and agreed tariiffs for new services es set out in Ainnex 13 wilJ. be
maintained unless otherwise agreed with IDA.
8. RECON14ENDATIONS AND AGRBEMI\TTS
8.01      The program forms a suitable basis for an IDA credit to the Gov-
ernment of Nepal of US$1.7 million. The proceeds will be made available
to NTB under the conditions specified under para. 7.02.
8.02      Agreement has been obtained on the following points:
(a) Government will, as a condition of effectiveness,
employ consultants under the agreed terms of
reference to recommend on and help implement the
reorganization of NTB and in the establishment



-19-
of a modern accounting system for NTJB. A time-
table has been established and agreed for this
purpose. The accounting system will be oper-
ative not later than July 16, 1970. (paras. 2.05
2.06 and 3.04)
(b)  As a condition of effectiveness for the credit,
Government will employ two expatriate experts in
an executive capacity as Financial Controller
and Business Manager of the new board, and will,
in addition, recruit five or six qualified ac-
countants to introduce and operate the new ac-
counting system. Government has already requested
technical assistance under the Colombo Plan for
the employment of the two expatriate experts.
(paras. 2.05, 2.06 and 3.04)
(c)  After making the necessary provisions for reor-
ganization and the project, the Government waill
restrict any further increases in staff during
the period of the project in accordance with
the terms and conditions set out in para. 2.07.
(d)  Government will apply for UNDP assistance in
setting up a more adequate training program.
(para. 2.09)
(e)  Satisfactory audit procedures will be established
after the introduction of the accounting system,
and, beginning with fiscal year 1971, audited fi-
nancial statements will be submitted to IDA within
five months after the end of the fiscal year.
NTB's staff will be responsible for pre-auditing.
(paras. 3.03 and 3.05)
(f)  Government will arrange for the training of Ne-
palese staff in modern accounting procedures.
(para. 3.0h)
(g)  The opening balance of the new accounts to be
introduced by the consultants will be submitted
to IDA as soon as available, but in any case
not later than July 16, 1970, when the new ac-
counting system will become operative. (paras. 3.04
and 7.05)
(h)  Government has agreed the tariffs to be applied
in respect of the new high quality trunk services
and the telex services; no further adjustments



-20-
in rates will be effected during the project period
without prior consultation with the Association;
beginning in fiscal year 1974, a rate of return
covenant will be applied. (paras. 3.08 and 7.07)
(i)  Government will, as a condition of effective-
ness for the credit) take appropriate action
to introduce arrangements, effective from
July 1969, under which timely payments at fuli
rates will be made by Government and civil
servants (ITB will pay other Government depart-
ments for services received). (paras. 3.09
and 3.10)
(j) Government will replace the present arrangements
under which telephones are sold to subscribers
by a bond system under which all new subscribers
will be required to make a deposit of NRs 500
(Us$5o), repayable should they give up service.
(para. 3.11)
(k) No further schemes involving major expansion of
the telecommunications network will be undertaken
during the period of the project without prior
Association approval. (para. 5.0h)
(1) It is understood to be Governmentls present in-
tention that items to be imported by NTB in con-
nection with the project will not be subject to
customs duty or surtax. (para. 5.o8)
(m) Arrangements satisfactory to the Association
will be made to finance the portion of the pro-
ject not financed by the credit. (para. 7.01)
(n)  For the assunption of new debt on behalf of NTB,
Government will be required to obtain the Asso-
ciationts consent if the ma-imum annual debt
service is not covered 1.5 times by net revenue.
(para. 7.06)
October 7, 1969



NEPAL TELECOM=I7C IONS BOARD (NTB)
Telephone Ec-recasts
Projection                                                                         Projections thereafter
of population                 Resultant                         Esti-               on a 10% Growth Basis
Capacity    1972 based                     Estimated                         mated TK                                     Esti-
with        on census        Reasonable   Required   To be                   circuits             Estimated               mated TK
No. of             provisions  of 1961 &         Telephone    Exchange   provided  Resultant  to Kath-             Exchange Lines             circuits
Working             already     rough            Density       Capacity   under      actual      mandu               Requirements             to Kath-
Present    Lines     Waiting  allowed       growth           Targets for  for July   IDA         capacity   required   July  July  July  July  July   mandu
Exchanges              Capacity   Jan 1/69  List      for          estimates        July 1972    1972        Project   provided   July '72   1973  1974  1975  1976  1982   1982
Kathmandu                   4,000      1,705 )             5,000        172,000            2.5%        4,300          -      5,000         p      4,730 5,203 5,723 6,285 11,180-  0
Patan                         600         225     3,000       600        69,000            1.5%        1,040        400      1,000         M      1,144 1,258 1,383 1,520  2,700         0
Bhaktapur                       -           -)               100*.       43,000            0,1%          220        200*       200         7        242   266   293   322    572        12
Birgunj                         -           -    Not es-      300        15,400            1.5%          230           -       300         7         253   276   304   334    598       13
tablished
Palung                          -           -                  10           380            0.5%            2           _        10         1           2     2      3     3       5      1
Bhainsee                        -           -                  10           700            0.5%            4           -        10         1           4     4      5     6     10       1
Hetaura                         -           -                  10         5,200            1.5%           76        100        100         4          84    92   101   111    195        7
Amlekgunj                       -           -                  10         1,520            0.5%            8           -        10         1           9    10    11    12       21      1
Simra                           -           -                  10           280            0.5%            2           -        10         1           2     2      3     3       5      1
Malangwa                        -           -                   -          8,700            0.5%          44          50         50)                  48    53    59    65    1l14)
Siraha                          -           -        "          -         5,500            0.5%           28                        )                 31    34    37    41       73
10                                        ) 17
Janakpur                        -                            1 100X(200)  17,100           1.0%          170           -       200 )                187   204   224   246    442
)                                               )
Rajbiraj                        -           -        n          _          9,900           1.0%           99         100       100 )                 109   120   132   145    259
Biratnagar                    300         300       200    1,000*(1300) 63,000             1.75%       1,100           -     1,300 )               1,210 1,331 1,464 1,610  2,852
Dharan                          -           -       175       100*       27,000            1.5%          405         400       250 )      26         445   490   539   593  1,069 )   56
Jhapa/Bhadrapur                 -           -    Not es-     100         11,000            1.0%          110           -       100 )                 121   133   146   161    286
tablished
Pokhara                         -           -        "        100*       13,300            1.0%          133         150*      150         5         146   160   176   194    345        8
Bhairawa                        -           -        "          -         5,300            0.5%           26-        100         50        2          29    32    35    39       68      3
NepalganJ                       -           -                   -         22,000            0.5%         110          50#        50         5#       121   133   146   161    286         8
4,900      2,230               7,450(7850) 490,280                         8,107      1,550      8,890        70      8,917 9,803 10,784 i4851 21,080    128
*  The Indian Government Aid provisions for Bhaktapur, Pokhara and Dharan (Total 300 lines) to be reallocated to increase size of Biratnagar to 1,300 lines.  Janakpur will also
be increased by them from 100 to 200 lines,
#  Traffic must in any case be restricted at this phase due to shortage of trunk facilities.
0 Subject to interoffice calculations.
June 24, 1969



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
NEPAL TELECOMM CNICATIONS B0ARD (NTB)
Facilities Existing and Presently Under Provision
A.   International facilities available are:
1 HF SSB telephone link to Calcutta
1 HF teleprinter link to Calcutta
1 HF SSB telephone link to New Delhi
1 HF teleprinter link to New Delhi
1 HF SSB telephone and teleprinter link to Dacca
1 HF SSB telephone line to Rawalpindi
These services are being operated with a total of
four transmitters (one ISB and three SSB) having
powers of 5 kw, 1.5 kw, 1.0 kw and .75 kw, respect-
ively.
The following additional facilities are in course of provision through
an Indian aid grant:
The power of the transmitter used for the Kathmandu-
New Delhi link is being increased to 5 kw.
A three-pair physical route, Kathmandu to Raxaul with
eight through-carrier channels to India, is being pro-
vided with completion scheduled in 1-2 years. Erec-
tion of associated buildings at Birgunj and Hetaura
is also in hand, together with the provision of an
international exchange building at Kathnandu.
B. Domestic Telegraph facilities are as follows:
The old land line from Kathmandu to Biratnagar in the
East and Bhairawa in the West, now largely duplicated
by HF radio facilities; its use has largely been
discontinued.
Seven area controls and 62 dependent HF radio stations
(as of February 1969). The area controls are located
at Kathmandu, Biratnagar, Jalswar, Pokhara, Ehairawa,
Nepalganj and Dhangari. Six additional area controls
and 11 dependent stations are being added in 1969 under
an HM (Nepal) appropriation. The equipment consists of
120 W SSB transceivers rated only for intermittent
service. Power supply is provided by 1.2 kw motor
alternators.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
C.  Telephone Facilities
Kathmandu main crossbar exchange - 4,400 exchange ter-
minations exist with 1,700 lines working. External
plant provisions were due to be completed by June 1969 to
utilize the major part of the present spare exchange
capacity. This work is being done under a Nepalese
Government appropriation. The equipment is of the
Swedish Ericsson ARF type.
Patan Exchange - a 600-line ARF crossbar exchange,
provided under a Government appropriation, was
completed in September 1968 and has 225 working
exchange lines.
Biratnagar exchange - A 300-line CB unit exists and
this is being expanded by 100 lines under a Nepalese
Government appropriation. Three hundred working
exchange lines at present exist.
Long-distance facilities within Nepal are only available on a very
restricted basis via the domestic telegraph network.
October 6, 1969



NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD (NTB)
STAFF ORGANIZATION WITHIN DEPARTMENT
CHIEF ENGINEER
ADMINISTRATIONACCOUNTSI NTERNATIONAL
A D MINI TRATION     CCOUNTSSERVICES                  .
DIVISIONAL ENGINEER                            DIVISIONAL ENGINEER                            DIVISIONAL ENGINEER
PROJECTS AND RRDI
PLANNINGANR                                                                                  ISD PLANA                        N
PROJECT          |      ENGINEER    OENGINEER D                      EENGINEER                                     ENGINEER                TELEPHONE
ACCOUNTANT               PLANNING                       iNSTALLATION        |      TAFFIC                          NSIDE PLANT   S    L COUNTANT
OFFICER     MAINTENANCE~ ~ ~~~~~~~MINENNC
INSTA LLATION                                                                                NETWVORK               MAINTENANCE
DISTRICT OFFICES
z
z
rni
MAY 1969                                                                                                                                                     IBRD -I4398(R)  x
LW



ANNEX 4
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD (NTB)
JOB DESCRIPTION
Controller of Administration, Personnel and Business Office
Qualifications:   Candidates should have  good business office experience
over a period of at least five years, preferably in a telecommunications
operating administration or company. It is also desirable that they
should have a degree in Business Administration.
Duties: Following appointment, the candidate would initially cooperate
with management consultants in designing and setting up the administrative
personnel and business office organizations. He would subsequently be
responsible to the General Manager for all day-to-day administrative
matters involved in the control of the personnel and business sections
and the clerical organization. He will be responsible through the business
office for the handling of all applications for service, preparation of
waiting lists, application of priorities, issue of service provision orders
and dealing with subsequent inquiries made by subscribers. He will be
responsible for collection procedures and, in liaison with the Financial
Controller, for the handling of overdue accounts. He will be responsible
for the setting up of a Telephone Directory Section and for production and
advertising arrangements, if possible on a commercial basis. He will deal
with public relations matters on behalf of the General Manager. He will
control all clerical, business office, and collection office personnel,
including telegraphic counter clerks. He will be responsible for the pre-
paration of non-engineering statistical records relating to the telephone
and telegram services and for the preparation of forecasts of likely demands
for service and growth trends.
Tenure of Office: The appointment will be for a period of two years,
during which time a Nepalese successor should be trained on the duties
in question.
June 2h, 1969



ANNEX 5
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD (NTB)
Job Description
Financial Advisor/Controller
Qualifications: Chartered accountant, C.P.A., A.C.A. or equivalent,
or a degree in business administration majoring in accounting. Experience
of about 10 years in accounting required, preferably in a public utilities
corporation.
Duties: The person selected would cooperate with management consultants
during the first three months in the introduction of a modern accounting
system in a small but fast-growing telecommunications entity in Nepal. During
and after the introduction he would be fully responsible to the General
Manager of the Board for all financial affairs of the Board, including cost
accounting, debt servicing, statistics, tariffs, billing arrangements,
internal audit, stores accounts and other general accounts, as well as pro-
ducing reports required by management and international organizations. He
would also hold the position of Secretary of the Board.
Tenure of Office: The appointment is for five years, during which
Nepalese personnel should be trained to take charge of the financial manage-
ment.
October 6, 1969



AN2EEX 6
Page 1 of 3 pages
NEPAL TELECOMMIE4 ICATIONS BOARD (NTB)
Agreed Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
The Nepal Telecommunications Department is a small government
telecommunications administration set up in l959 to cooperate with the
USAID mission in the construction of the initial phase of a modern tele-
phone network and the extension of the telegraph network in Nepal, and
subsequently to taie over the operation and maintenance of the network.
The Department is a part of the Mianistry of Wilorks, Transport and Communi-
cations, and has a monopoly in the provision and operation of the local,
long-distancej and international telephone and telegraph systems. At
present, the telephone netwiork consists of some 2,400 telephone stations,
largely concentrated in the Kathmandu Valley area, with no effective tele-
phone trunk system. A radio telephone/telegraph point-to-point system
serves some 62 of the more important locations in the country. High fre-
quency radio telephoaae and telegraph links provide international telephone
and telegraph service on a scheduled basis to India and Pakistan. Under
a development plan which has already been formulated, and certain sections
of which are already in hand, it is expected to quadruple the size of the
telephone network, provide telephone trunk facilities to Central and East
Nepal, improve international telephone and telegraph facilities, and
introduce a telex service in the Kathmandu Valley area over the period of
the next five years. This program is being undertaken partly with Indian
Government assistance and partly through a proposed International Develop-
ment Association credit.
NTD has at present a staff of some 1,100 persons, but it is
essentially a technical operating organization lacking in business controls
and procedures and without an accounting system. There are, however,
dispersed records on cash collections and budget records on expenditures,
all of them in Nepali script. The Government of Nepal has decided that, in
order to facilitate the carrying out of the program and also improve the
efficiency of its telecommunications department, NTD will be reorganized
and will become a board having corporate status. An order designed to
carry this decision into effect is in process of being gazetted and
should permit e-cecutive action in conmection uiith the change-over to
commence by not later than December 1969. The Board will be wholly govern-
ment-owned, and Government will themselves decide on the constitution and
membership of the Board of Directors, although it is possible that a member
of the business community will be appointed to the Board in order to fa-
cilitate cooperation with that community. Government hopes, through the
establishment of NTB as a board to ensure the more effective discharge of
NTBts responsibility to the economy, and seeks by this means to make it
possible for IUTB to operate along modern business lines with the chief
executive being given full responsibility under the direction of the Board



AINN  6
Page 2 of 3 pages
for its operation and control of its finances within the limits of the
Government's budgetary system. It is the intention that Government will
continue to maintain overall financial control through the Annual Budget.
The consultantls responsibility will be to design and help in the
introduction of the new internal organization of NTB when it becomes a
board, wiithin the legislative framework which is in process of being
established. To facilitate the reorganization, Government have applied for
assistance under the Colombo Plan in the provision of two experts, one to
take charge of financial procedures, and the other, business and adrinis-
trative matters. Government anticipate that these experts should be avail-
able by not later than December 1969. Government are also providing a
number of qualified accountants required in connection with the implementation
of the new accounting system, and for the training of Nepali accountants in
modern accounting procedures.  Correspondence with and screening of con-
sultants has already commenced, and the ccnsultant selected should be in a
position to commence his work in Nepal by not later than October 1969 and
complete his survey, including where required assistance in introducing the
new arrangements, by January 31, 1970. The consultant's final report, in-
cluding a provisional opening balance sheet, should be submitted by March 31,
1970. The accounting system should be in operation by not later than
July 16, 1970.
Points in connection with which the consultant will be required
not only to advise, but also accept responsibility for the introduction of
the new arrangements, are detailed in paragraphs 1 to 3. Advice is required
on the matters raised in paragraphs 4 to f'.
1.        Design and introduction of the organization within NTB; defini-
tion of internal responsibilities, lines of delegation; allocation of duties,
responsibilities and authorities to each department and staff member; intro-
duction of efficient business procedures, particularly in the field of
billing, collecting, disconnecting, preparing telephone directories, waiting
list; and, in general, providing more effective channels of communication
with customers.
2.        Introductinn of a modern accounting system.  This system should
provide all information necessary for efficient management, e.g. data for
determining at any moment the value of assets or liabilities, categories
and level of revenues and expenses attributable to the various services
provided by the Board, size of arrears, and all financial data required to
make financial projections. It is understood that the standard ledgers,
such as stores accounts, plant inventories, subscribers accounts, etc.,
form part of a modern accounting system. It is recomncndeC that the con-
sultant chooses the most appropriate system readily available on the market
or even specifically designed for telephone companies, such as the one
prepared by the FCC. It will be the consultant's duty to adapt and simplify
the standard system to the specific circumstances in Nepal with a view to



AIThEX 6
Page 3 of 3 pages
achieving standardization for all boards and corporations. Whilst intro-
ducing the accounting system, the consultant will make a short evaluation
of NTB's assets and the basis of transfer to the Board. The accounting
system should furthermore be designed in such a way that it provides the
manager with all information required to assume full responsibility. At
the same time, and in view of the fact that the Board would control its
own funds within the overall budget appropriations, it should provide
Government with all information needed to review and assess the Board's
financial and technical performance and projections. Also, the final ac-
counts should be presented in such a way that auditing is not limited to
Nepali due to the script or language used.  The implementation of the ac-
counting system includes the design and organization of an accounting de-
partment with clear allocation of functions, responsibilities and authori-
ties. This department would also be responsible for internal audits and
for maintaining adequate depreciation rates.
3.        An examination of the procurement procedures and the introduction
of arrangements for NTB to set up an efficient Administrative Stores and
Procurement Department.
4.        Report on the basis of transfer of NTD's staff to the Board and
an assessment of personnel surplus to requirements, or not suitable for
employment.
5.        Report on the planning procedures to be followed in the future by
NTB, covering both overall policies and det-iled responsibilities;  consi-
der&cvioi should also be given to arrangements which will provide both flex-
ibility and continuity, establish methods of deciding priorities where all
demand cannot be met, cover the execution of the development programs and
reporting on project progress; advice should be given on the values which
should be attached to the various input factors used in telecommunications
planning:  interest rate, foreign exchange rate, depreciation rates, infla-
tion and maintenance rates, etc.
6.        Advise and report on procedures for collecting and collating
technical statistics for the services provided and their performance; pre-
pare a list of statistics which should be collected to assist in planning,
indicating the frequency with which they should be gathered and the areal
basis on wjhich they should be assembled, and the organization for providing
a regular, up-to-date, and accurate statistical service.
October 6, 1969



NEPAL
TIMETABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT OF CONSULTANTS AND SETTING UP
THE NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD WITH INTRODUCTION OF ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
1969                                                       ___       r1970
{_JAN    FEB   MAR7 APR  ~~~~~~MAY   JU      U                             'SEP   OCT   NOV    DECI JAN -FEB   MAR   APR   MAY JU                                                             JL
1. Corr.espondenc  wih  n
screenng of -cnsolbasvt
and preparation of their
pr oposa. I
Actioc to be taken byGoen
-2. R-vtw of noeultant.' Pro-
penals and susiss ion no
I     .A.ih .snenedation
3. Appination  to OCIenbo Plan
fee. t exets -n Procenl                                                                                                                                    I/ (Period of    1y     t:3-5yrs
4. Appnintrent of qnalified
5. Training of additional. iNe-        J
ofuaice. ofntatsOder creaPtF
Aping  h epiost    .oania
to.boardF
--nootants
t. epproval of w-uonting
system   nd sbission to IDA         I
9. Adminis-trative ation in            I
organislog NTP and ac-              F                                                                                                                          I,j*f7fl* v.7t
outn systen, transfe-
ring   -assts,   fo- tmons,                                                                                                               _   _ _   _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _
roponsibiiities, eto.
C. Action to be taken by
10. IdtFitlaltudy of local con-
ditions and desig. of its
acCOasting ystes    es                                                                                                     
etudiec   F-Peclationo  ti'e 
organoan    fo  tts Te1econ-rF
ii.  oprsonof itse initiel1
otoges of the introduction 
of the Peleceo-nntcotice
3 FaR-d 5organization 
I3.  roduction of final report          F
end r~~eco,neondoti.na.
F . Ac tion to be taken by lIdA
Ic,. APprve,f  -o-ntann.s and
iriefing if consideredce
F      ceenary
15. Approval of a-eoteng
In  dpervinion e,o-i-en      -pr
ace adice  on new  ,rg-nIz-
t.ne        --daoomtng Synotc
fiThe epc.met'Tc  of cOT tFoCO,OOO.FO  of eopor. osssfn-rr   -ed oppm.etten of eocr-foIt ore need toes for effect ene-
2*  ~ onto, oatee Fret oct00 croon zOTOCO  mAc,gee  hrtoed comene cy no  ore th-n 0c-ceme  969 end atF be -opietee onntdoo    f the  co-nortmg  ysnte,,  Joy  970,
nnn-tet perIt of -Octon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    z
z
IBRD   4 399(2Rf   m<
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                                                                  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j-4



IEPAL TELECOQMUNICATIONS BOARD (NTB'3
Pro Forma Balance Sheet Fiscal Years 1966 - 1974
(in NRs million)
E S T I M A T E                                                 F O R E C A S T . . . . .                _
As of mid-July:           1966        1967         1968                1969          1970         1971         1972        1973         1974
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in operation                                                  32.00        35.00       37.00               40.24          45.29       54.40        62.98        75.04       81.17
Less:  Depreciation reserve                                          3.07         4.75        6.55                8.48          10.62       13.11        16.04        19.49       23.40
Net Plant in operation                                              20.93                    TO5.25 u            M                  7       4iT7         46.9         3535        3777
Work in progress                                                      -            -            -                 2.12           7.99         9.60       11.12         6.95         9.02
Total net fixed assets                                    28.93       30.25        30-.45              33.88          42.66       50.89        58.06       62.50        66.79
Current Assets
Cash                                                                  -            -           -                                 1.05        2.76         3.10         2.22        2.27
Subscribers accounts receivable                                      0.20         0.30        0.30                0.40           0.50        0.50         0.70         1.00        1.20
Inventories                                                          0.07         o.o8        0.08                0.10           0.13        0.16         0.19         0.21        0.23
Total current assets                                       0.27        0.38         0.38                0.50           1.68        3.42         3.99         3.43        3.70
TOTAL ASSETS                                              29.20        30.63       30.83               34.38          44.34       54.31         205        65.93        70.49
LIABILITIES
Government's budget contributions (including grants)                  29.20        30.63       30.83               34.38          41.92        46.23       48.38        48.38        48.38
Retained earnings                                                                                                                  0.05         0.18        o.56         1.41         2.90
Total equity                                                                                                          42.97       46.41        48.94        49.79       51.28
Longterm debt:  IDA                                                                                                                1.88         6.85       11.44        13.73        12.01
Future borrowing                                                                                                                                                      4.00
3ubscribers' deposits                                                                                                              0.49         1.05         1.67        2.41         3.20
0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                         29.20        30.63       30.83                 44.34                    54.31        62.05        6.3          70.49 n
Debt: Equity ratio                                                                                                                 4:96        13:87        19:81       22:78        24:76
June 24, 1969



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5 pages
NEPAL TEIECOMX4UICATICNS BOARD (iJTB)
Notes on the Balance Sheet
1.  Fixed Assets
NTD does not have an assets ledger nor a property record.
Therefore, the Department's installations had to be evaluated by
the mission. This was facilitated by the fact that most equip-
ment had been provided by foreign aid agencies. Before USAID
provided some modern equipment, there was a 50-year old landline
from Kathmandu to Biratnagar in the east and Bhairawa in the west;
today only a few pieces are used and the value can be neglected.
As of mid-July 196h, the value of Kathmandu Exchange and radio
stations provided by USAID reached US$2.98 million. At the present
exchange rate, this amounts to NTRs30.162 million. In the follawing
years, along with minor foreign aid contributions, the Nepalese
Government made some allocations for telecommunications in its
development budget. The expenditures recorded under this budget,
however, are not identical with capital expenditures, and there-
fore the figures had to be adjusted by the mission. On the whole,
development budgets are overstated by including the operating ex-
penditures of areas wihere development is going on (e.g. Biratnagar).
In those cases, the estimated value of equipment was considered
rather than the budget figures. Not included under capital ex-
penditures are overheads of HTD, uhich were minor because for-
eign aid financed most of the installations. Also, non-recurrent
expenditures for replacing certain equipment might not be in-
cluded. An example is the Trisuli land line, which was recon-
ditioned. It is estimated that this repair has increased the
value of the plant by NRsl million in the fiscal year ending
July 1967.
Also not included in the assets is most of the land used for
telecommunications purposes, because most of it already belonged
to Government.  Only in a few cases did UTD have to purchase
land from private omners.  With the setting up of 13, the value
of the land belonging to the Government must be estimated and
show.n in NTB's books.
The asset increase for FY 1968/6 9 corresponds to the budget
of this year (I\Rs6.9 million), adjusted by the mission to NRs5.3
million to reflect authentic capital expenditures. Considering all
these aspects, the mission constructed the following development of
assets:



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5 pages
5% Accumu-
Value                 Plant Average      de- lated
of Plant                in  Value of   pre-  Depre-
in NRs    Work in     Opera-Plant in   cia-  ciation
Year Ending July 16         million   Progress    tion  Operation  tion  Reserve
1964 US AID $2.98 at 10.125  30.16                 30.16    -         -      -
1965 US AID $0.014 at 10.125 30.30                 30.30  30.23      1.51    1.51
1966 Mainly budget alloca-
tions NRs 1.7 million   32.00                 32.00  31.15      1.56    3.07
1967 Mainly budget alloca-
tions NRs 3.0 million   35.00                 35.00  33.50      1.68    4.75
1968 Mainly budget alloca-
cations NRs 2.0 million 37.00                 37.00  36.00     1.80    6.55
Projected
1969 Indian AID NRs5.36
(incl. 0.21 budget)    42.36     2.12  (5%) 40.24  38.62      1.93    8.48
1970 Mixed Aid NRslO.92       53.28     7.99 (15%) 45.29  42.76      2.14   10.62
1971 Mixed Aid NRslO.72       64.00     9.60 (15%) 54.40o  9.84      2.49   13.11
1972 Mixed Aid NRslO.10       74.10    11.12 (15%) 62.98  58.69      2.93   16.04
1973 Mixed Aid NRs 4.89       78.99     3.95  (5%) 75.04  69.01      3.45   19.49
+ 3.00 future pro-
visions          81.99     6.95
Assumed
1974 (10% increase in
assets) 8.20            90.19      9.02 (10%) 81.17  78.10      3.91   23.40
2. Work in Progress
For the past years under consideration, work in progress was not
important and has therefore been disregarded. For the future years,
the estimated work in progress is 5% of the plant in 1969 and 1973,
15% in 1970 through 1972, and 10% in 1974.
3. Depreciation Reserve
The rate of depreciation applied is 5% of the average value of
plant in operation on a straight-line basis, beginning with the
year 1964/65. On this basis, the accumulated depreciation reserve
is NRs3.07 million at the end of fiscal year 1966, the first year
shown on the balance sheet.



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5 pages
4. Cash
Up to fiscal year 1969, !TD has no cash of its own. All
funds flow to and from the Government's Budget Fund. But begin-
ning with fiscal year 1970, NTB is supposed to control its own
fund. A very high cash balance was provided to secure against
the uncertainties of the forecast.
5. Subscribers' Accounts Receivable
It is assumed that in the past about one and one-half months'
revenues were outstanding due to UTDIs billing procedure. Wiith
the modern billing procedures, outstanding amounts are expected to
be reduced to one month's revenues beginning mid-July 1970.
6. Inventories
Inventories are assumed to contain a three months' supply
of parts, fuel, etc. To determine the value,it was assumed that
one-half of the yearly non-labor costs (excluding those caused by
the project) were expenditures for parts, fuel, etc., which are
stored.
1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974
Total non-labor
cost per fiscal
year in NRs       547   653   661   829 1,046 1,281 1,487 1,707 1,829
Three months'
supply (:8)        68    81    82   104   131   160   185   213   228
7. Government's Budget Contributions
Up to and including fiscal year 1969, the only source of finance
was the Government budget, through which also the foreign grants were
channelled, which financed most of KTD's fixed assets.
8. Retai:ned Eamings
lNet profits, which are not paid out to Government are credited
to this account beginn,ing with fiscal year 1970, when commercial
accounts will hat'e been introduced.  Profits must be retained only
to the exte-at that cash requirements of the followling year are not
otherwise covered.
9. Long-term Debt
The proposed IDA Credit is the first long-term debt to be
assumed for telecommunications in Nepal. Future borrowing amounting to



AMIEX 8
Page 7 of 5 pages
tEs h million in 1974 corresponds to the foreign exchange needed,
estimated as one-half of the capital requirements of that year.
10. Subscribers' Deposits
Beginning mid-July 1969, new subscribers will have to pay a
deposit of NEs 500 per telephone set, instead of paying for the
telephone set, as has been the case in the past. This deposit
is repayable upon abandonment of telephone service.
11. Current Liabilities
The estimated current liabilities are not shoin in the
balance sheet because of their insignificance and uncertainty.
June 24, 1969



NEPAL TELEQOMMUN1CQTIONS BOARD (NTB)
Pro For-ma Profit and Loss Statement Fiscal Years 1966 - 1974
(in NRs million)
E S T I M A T E                                            F O R E C A S T
Fiscal Year ending mid-July                                              1966        1967         1968            1969         1970        1971        1972       1973        1974
REVENUES
1. Telephone
Rental                                                                                                      0.87         1.73        2.22        2.76       3.38        3.77
Local excess calls                                                                                          0.54         1.06        1.38        1.73       2.12        2.34
Domestic trunk calls                                                                                        0.19         0.26        0.27        1.o8       2.90        4.58
International calls                                                                                         0.22         0.22        0.32       0.47        o.54        0.58
Installation fees                                                                                           0.03         0.03        0.03        0.04       0.04        0.05
Total Telephone Revenues                                      o.63        0.82         0.92            1.85         3.30        4.22       6.o8        8.98       11.32
2. Telegraph
Domestic                                                           o.68        0.75         0.83            o.88         1.40        1.50        1.59       1.70        1.81
International                                                      0.39        0.55        0.9              0.74         0.92        0.74        0.74       0.74        0.74
Total Telegraph Revenues                                      1.07        1.30         1.42            1.62         2.32        2.24        2.33       2.44        2.55
3. Telex                                                                                                                                   0.07        0.14       0.21        0.28
Total Revenues                                                1.70        2.12         2.34            3.47         5.62        6.53        8.55      11.63       14.15
EXPENDITURES
Salaries, wages, maintenance, etc.                                   1.73         2.07        2.09            2.19          2.48       2.86        3.26       4.07        1p29
Depreciation                                                         1.56         1.68        1.80            1.93          2.14       2.49        2.93        3.45       3.91
Total Operating Expenses                                      3.29        3.75         3.89            4.12         4.62        5.35        6.19        7.52       8.20
NET INCOME (loss) before interest                                        (1.59)      (1.63)       (1.55)         (0.65)         1.00       1.18        2.36        4.11        5.95
less interest                                                           -            _            -              -            0.o6       0.28        o.59        0.82       0.97    0 |
NET PROFIT (loss)                                                        (1-59)      (1.63)       (1.55)            6)          0.94        0.90       1.77        3.29        4.98    ° 0
01 .
Average net plant in operation                                          26.86        29.59        30.35          31.10         33.21       37.98      44.11       51.24       56.66    '
Rate ot return                                                             -           -            -                           3.0%        3.1%       5.4%        8.o%       10.5%    °
Times interest covered by net income                                       -           -            -              -           16.6         4.2        4.o         5.o         6.1
June 24, 1969



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2 pages
NEPAL TELECOMUNICATIONS BOARD (.TB)
Notes on the Profit and Loss Statement
1. Revenues
Figures for the fiscal years 1966 through 1968 represent
cash receipts as estimated by NTD and adjusted to show changes
in the accounts  receivable  position.   Not  included  are
revenues from services for which Government or civil servants did
not have to pay. Revenues for fiscal year 1969 through 1974, cal-
culated by the mission, are shown in a tabular summary in Annex
10, page 7, to make a survey easier. Assumptions and explanations
are given in the footnotes, except for the estimate of traffic
originated on the new trunkline, which can be found in Annex 10,
page 2, and the projected revenues therefrom in Annex 10, page 3.
2.  Expenditures
Past expenditures were arrived at by adjusting budget
figures to exclude capital expenditures and to include salaries
of staff who have not been on the regular budget payroll. In
addition, estimated pension costs were included. These calcu-
lations, as well as the projections of expenditures, both estimated
by the mission, are outlined in Annex 11, page 1. A straight-line
depreciation of 5% on the average value of plant in operation was
applied for all years. Interest charges were arrived at by applying
a 6½j, rate on the average outstanding long-term loans.
June 24, 1969



ANNE 10
Page 1 of 3 pages
WpA TKZUWMDULCATION8 spAuD (uNT)
(IR  ae in 1,000 unlm   s    e's  statod)
F o R E C A S T
Fiscal Year ending aid-July                                                                             1966    1967    1968      1969      1970     19n       1972     1973      1974
i Statistical Data
Number of Lrl's (connected)                                                                          1,000   1,500   1,900    2,700    3,600    4,600    5,700    6,900    7,03c
Increase of LU's                                                                                               .500    a400      .800     +900   1,O000   +1,100   -1,200       -130
Average LU's in service                                                                                       1,250   1,700    2,300    3,150    4,100    5,i5O    6,300    6,965
Percentage increase of averag  LU'a                                                                                      36%      35%       37%      30%       26%      22%       II%
Extensions                                                                                                     450      570      685       770      898    1,038    1,315    1,556
increa"e of extensions                                                                                                  120     .115       085     o128      +140     *277      +241
Average extensions in service                                                                                           510      627       727      834       968    1,176    i,435
RevenueS from  Telephone Service (in 1,000 NRs)
a)   ocal Service,  basic rental (average LU x Nbs 480.-)                                                                         773/   1,512    1,968    2,472    3,024    3,343
excess calls (70% of rentl.) /2                                                                              541    1,058    1,378    1,730    2,117    2,340
rental for extensions (araragfie t. x NRa 300.-)                                                              97L2    218      250       290       353      431
Installation fee (NRb 30.- per connection)                                                                   24        27        30       33        36       4 )
(Nbe 30.- per extension)                                                                     3        3         4        4         8        7
Total revenue from local service
b)  D-o-etic Trunk Service, from present installations (6.5% increase p.a.)                                             175      187       259/4    147/5
from new installations (see calculation on attached page 3)                                                            118   1076    2 897    4,576
Total revenue from domstic trunk service                                                                               I        279 975576   t~tt          7tt57   -tw
a) International
-To India, growth of traffic attributable to station increase
(66 2/3% of station increase)                                                                                  23%      25%       230       108       15%       70
grcwth due to technical iprovement                                                                                                  20%
calls per year (in 1,000) based on dex_d                                                                26.6      33      41         57       67        77       82
actual  calls considering limitation                                                                              31/6    31'6      44        67        77       B2
-To Pakistant actual calls projected at 66 2/3% of station increase (in 1,000)                                        L.447    2        2         3         3        3         4
-Total international calls                                                                                           28.0     33       33        47        70       BO        86
Revenue from international calls at NRs 6.75 each                                                                  189      223      223       317      473       540       Sbi
3. Rcee.ses fro- Telegraph Service
a)  domestic service (6.5% inorease p.., based on pmt three yeare growth)/8                                             825      879      1,4C4/9   1,495    1,592    1,695    i,805
b)  ieternational service (based on past perforaance 25% incre"e p.a. tillf97O,
hen a new telephone line to India is operative and a
drop of 20% is expected)                                                                    591      739     924        739       739      739      7T'
Total revenue from  telegraph service                                                                                        2328       2,234                          542,3    2, 434  ,.
4. Revenue from Telex Service
Number of subscribers                                                                                                                                10        20        30       40
Revenue, NRH  7,000 per subscriber                                                                                                                   70        40i     21,       280
Total revenue                                                                                                        3,466   5,628      6,516    8,549   11,619   i4,142
5.  Others, i.e., advertisements in directory, dues, shifting charges, waiting list,
application fees, PFR nd casual connections are still ao small
that they can be omitted
Tatal revenue would be NRs 1,104,000, but roughly 1/3 of c,tos.ers (i.e. Goveraentand civil servants) do not pay.
- According to a  -aoplo taken by the mission revenues fren excess calls in the period Nov 1-14, 1968, were 77% of rental.
The fact that there will be more calls in the future becaume aore people cm be reached by telephone is probably
ce-pensated by a lower usage rate per LU.
_ Ptcrs ion. (300) for the Government PBX are excluded, as well as four other Government extensions.
', 1 oceromont paynents are expected to bring an additional 30% revenue.
,'5  01 line to Birgonj will only operate until the middle of tAb year whan  naw installations ae ready.  Credit was given for a few additional calls.
'he capacity ts India is limited to 108 calls per day until the end of 1970; at 290 deys the capaity per year is 31,300 calls.
/c Acor-ing to traffic sample 5% of all international calle (27,543 say 28,000) were to Pakistan.
8  Assming that 1 oiasse telephone tim   - 1 telegram, traffic to areas which will receive telephone connections vill be cut
by 4% in 1971/72, 8% in 1972/73 and 12% in 1973/74.  However this  ea xpected to be cospeneated by the increase of
ctatione.
9  Beginoing Jaly 1969, Government, which ih  estiated to acceant for 1/3 of traffic, begis to pay.  Therefore, revenues are
empec-te to increase by 50%.
Juoe 24, 199



NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATION' BOARD (NTB)
Forecast of Average LU's Connected to New Trunkline and Originated Traffic for Revenue Calculation
1971                            1972                             1973                             1974
Connected LU   Orig. Traffic   Connected LU   Orig. Traffic   Connected LU   Orig. Traffic   Connected LUT  Orig. Traffic
Year End Ave. in E.1 in Min.  Year End  Ave. in E. in Min. Year End Ave. in E.  in Min.  Year End Ave. in E.  in Min.
Ksthmandu, Patan, Bhaktapur                     1.50      90                   11.69      701                   30.27   1,816                     48.92  2,935
Birgunj                            100      50  1.25      75        150    125  3.13      188       200    175  4.38      263        250    225   5.63    338
Biretnagar                                                          500    250  6.25      375       800    650 16.25       975       950    875  21.88  1,313
Jsnakpur                                                             90     45  1.13       68       150    120  3.00       180       180    165   4.13    248
Rsjbiraj                                                                                             60      30  0.75       45        90      75   1.88    113
Ihbran                                                                                              170      85  2.13     128        200    185   4.63    278
Jhapa                                                                                                80      40  1.00       60       100      90   2.25    135
Milangva                                                                                                                              40      20   0.50      30
Pokhara                                                                                              30      15  0.38       23       100      65   1.63      98
Bhsirawa                                                                                             30      15  0.38       23        60      45   1.13      68
Nepalgunj                                                            75     32  0.80       48       100      50  1.25       75       150    125   3.13    188
Hetaura                                                              20                              30      10  0.25       15        60      45   1.13      68
Minor stations                      20     10  0.25       15         10     15  0.38       23        30      20  0.50       30        50      4_   1.00      60
120     60  3.00      180       845    467 23.38   1 403       1,680  1 210 60.54   3,633      2,230  1 955  97.84  5 872
-   ==         _                              __ =--
/1 It is expected that the average LU originates 0.025 Erlangs.
H
o 0
J9
June 24, 1969                                                                                                                                                        CD
ca



NEPAL TELECUNUNICATION) BOARD (NTB)
PROJECTED REVIUS FRC! DOMESTIC TRUNK CALLS
(assuming that traffic of 0.025 Erlangs is originated per LU)
Fiscal Year Ending mid-July                            1971                              1972                                    1973                                  1974
Rat-eper  Revenue                     Rate per Revenue                        Rate per  Revenue                      Rate per Revenue
Paid       Minute   per Day   Paid                Minute   per Day    Paid                Minute   per Dfay    Paid              Minute  per Day
Station             Price Class                Minutes      in NRs   in NRa Minutes  (Calls)  in NRs   in NRs    Minutes  (Calls)    in NRs  in NRs    Minutes  (Calls)  ill NRe  in NRs
(from page 2)
To Kpthmandu from:
BirgunJ                      IV                        75         2.4          180    188                2.4         451      263                2.4         631      336              2.4           81
Biratnagar /1                  V                                                      375                3.0       1,125      975                3.0       2,925   1,313               3.0         3,939
Janakpur                      IV                                                       68                2.4         163      180                2.4         432      248              2.4           595
Rnjbiraj                       V                                                                                               45                3.0          135     113              3.0           339
Dharan                         v                                                                                              128                3.o          384     278              3.0           834
Jhspa                          V                                                                                               60                3.0          180     135              3.0           405
Mplengwa                     III                                                                                                                                       30              1.6            48
Pokhara                      IV                                                                                                23                2.4           55      98              2.4           235
Bhpirawa                      IV                                                                                               23                2.4           55      68              2.4           163
Nepalganj /3             Rs. 5.- per call                                              48       (16)     5.0           80      75      (25)      5.o          125     188      (63)    5.o           315
Minor Stations
(incl. Hetaura)           III /2                    15          1.6          23     23                 I.6          37       45                1.6          72      128              1.6           205
Total one-way traffic revenue for one day                                      203                                 1,856                                    4,994                                  7,889
Total two-way traffic revenue for one day /4                                   406                                 3,712                                    9,988                                 15,778
Total two-way traffic revenue per year (290 days)                          117,740                             1,076,480                               2,896,520                               4,575,620
/1  Including scatterlink.
/2  Two small ones would be in class II.
/3  Present HF tariff applicable; average call duration of 3 minutes assumed.
/4  It is assumed that all traffic is to and from Kathmandu (including Patan and Bhaktapur).
About 20% of traffic is likely to be to other centers; soDe nearer and sowe further away.                                                                                                            o F
on the whole, the inaccuracy in revenues is minor.
Note: Attention is also drawn to the fact that in some cases local exchanges come into
operation and earn local service revenue before the trunkline is finished.                                                                                                                        a
June 24, 1969



NEPAL TELECCtOPJNICATICUS BOARD (NTB)
Expenditure Estimate and Forecast
(in 1,000 NRS)
E S T I M A T E                                      F O R E C A ST 
Fiscal Year ending mid-July                                                          1966       1967       1968       1969       1973       1971       1972      1973       1974
1.  Estimate of Past Expenditures /1
Regular budget expenditures according to NTD                                        1,493      1,883      1,804
Adjusted for renewal work on Trisuli line /2                                           -        -100
Adjusted for staff on development budget /T1                                          +149      +178       +180
1,642     1,961      1,984
of which 2/3is estimated to be maintenance parts, fuel, electricity, etc.           547        653        661
and 2/3 labor costs                                                               1,095      1,308      1,323
Add 8% for pension costs                                                              88       105        106
Total labor costs                                    1,183      1,413      1,429
Total expenditures                                   1,730      2 0        2,090
2.  Forecast of Expenditures                                                                                  basis       (+35%)    (+37%)    (+30%)    (+26%)    (+22%)    (411%)
a)  Non-labor cost for telephone services increase according to average LU increase /4                      330        446        611        794      1,000       1,220    1,354
b)  Non-labor cost for telegraph service according to station increase                                      331        38315      435/       487/5      487         487       487
Total non-labor cost, excluding project costs                                661        829      1,046      1,281      1, 487      1,707    1,841
c)  Labor cost: 5% reduction in 1968/69 (staff release) 5% inflation adi. afterwards                      1,429      1,358      1,429      1,500      1,575       1,654    1,737
Add 50 qualified people at NRs400 per month to service new plant                                                           (+48)      (+96)       (+96)
Including 5% adjusted far inflation                                                                                          50        155         264      277
1,429      1,358     1,429      15         1,730       1,918    2,014
d) New non-labor costs (spare parts, electricity, fuel, etc.) caused by project
-Transmission apparatus                                                                                                                                         132
-Transport                                                                                                                                                      233
-Building maintenance                                                                                                                                            28
-Telex                                                                                                                                    10         20          30
-Maintenance landline to India                                                                                                            20         20          20
Total new non-labor costs                                                                                      30         40         h3        43
Total Expenditures                                    1,730     2,066      2,090      2,187      2,475      2,861        257       4,068     4 298
/1  Only major adjustments are considered here.  Not included are, for example, repair costs of buildings, which is at
present done by maintenance division of the Department of Public Construction. Also not included are: postage for
domestic mail, uater supply, gratuities, some accounting and auditing done by other departments.
/2  The Trisuli line, which formed part of the old landline was reconditioned, capital expenditures made in 1966/67 and
charged to current expenditures are estimated to be roughly NRslOO,O0O. The counter adjustment was made under assets.
/3  j.l areas where new construction is going on, all staff has been charged to the Development Budget, including personnel,
which were in no way connected with the expansion.  Very often regular personnel are also working on expansion.                                                                       H
However, their salaries are not allocated accordingly.  The mission estimates that the under-estimate of current
expenditures were in the neighborhood of 10%.
/L  The underlying assumption, based on figures received fron NTD, is that telephone services account for 50% of all
expenditures, and that the relation labor-cost - non-labor cost is the same for telephone and telegraph services.
,5  Betweer. 196  and 1971, area control stations will increase from  seven  to 13 and dependent wireless stations
from 502 tc 73 (46%).Since tne HF network is rarely used for telephorne calls all these expenses are charged to
telegrapml for the purpose of proiecting.  One-third of the increase is assumed to take place in each of the years
1465, 12712 and 1S71, in a rounded figure of 52 per annum.
June 24, 1962



NEPAL TELEOQ.B4UNICATIONK BCARD (NTrB)
Sources and Applications of Funds
(in NRs million)
E S T I M A T E D-                                                     F O R E C A S T . .Years.       ...    
5 Years
Years Ending mid-July                                1966        1967       1968             1969          1970      1971       1972      1973      1974              1969-1973
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income (loss) before interest               (1.59)      (1.63)      (1.55)          (0.65)         1.O0      1.18       2.36      4.11       5.95                8.00
Depreciation                                     1.56        1.68       1.80             1.93          2.14      2.49       2.93      3.45      3.91                12.94
Total Internal Cash Generation             (0.03)       0.05       0.25            1.28           3.14      3.67       5.29      7.56      9.86                20.94
Subscribers' deposits                                                                                    0.49      0.56       0.62      0.74      0.79                 2.41
Borrowings: IDA credit                                                                                   1.88      4.97       6.31      4.01        -                 17.17
: Fature borrowings                                                                                                                     4.0o
Flow from Central Goverament Budget (incl.
grants)      1.75        3.06       1.75             4.20          7.54       4.31      2.15       -          -                  18.20
Total Sources                               1.72        3.11       2.00                          13.05     13.51      14.37     12.31     14.65                58.72
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Oonstruction in the past
or under project                                 1.70        3.00       2.00             5.36         10.92     10.72      10.10      4.89                          41.99
Future capital construction                                                                                                             3.00      8.20                 3.00
Interest on IDA credit and future borrowings                                                             0.06      0.28       0.59      0.82      0.97                 1.75
Amortization of IDA credit                                                                                                    1.72      1.72       1.72                 3.44
Total debt service                                                                                o.06      0.28       2.31      2.54       2.69                 5.19    w H
0 r
Chsnge in accounts receivable and inventories      0.02        0.11        -               0.12          0.13      0.03       0.23      0.32       0.22                 0.83
Change in cash position                                                                                  1.05      1.71       0.34     (0.88)      0.05                2.22    "
Profit participation paid out to Government                                                              0.89       0.77      1.39      2.44       3.49                 5.49   g
Total applications                          1.72        3.11       2.00             5.48         13.05      13.51     14.37     12.31      14.65                58.72    a
Debt service coverage (by internal cash generation)                                                     52.3       13.1       2.3       3.0        3.7
June 24, 1969



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2 pages
NOTES ON THE FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
1.  "Flow from CEntral Goveenment Budget" during the project period
includes Indian grants to the extent of NRs 3.99 million in 1969,
while the amounts shown in the following years represent entirely
Indian grants.
2. Future capital construction of NRs 3 million in 1973 represent likely
advance local expenditure on the next expansion program (West Nepal).
3. The profit participation paid out to Government was assumed to be
equal to its share in NTB s total investments, defined as its share
of the liability side of the balance sheet. To calculate Government's
share of a specific year, retained earnings of the former year were
considered.
June 2h, 1969



ILTENX 13
NEPAL TELECO114vNICATIONS BOARD (IITB)
Tariffs
Representative Tariffs Effective as of December 31, 1968
1.  Telephone                                                         IRs
A.  Rental - per line unit per month (incl. 100 free calls)  40.00
- each additional local call                        0.20
- per internal extension                           25.00
- per external extension                           30.00
- per PBX up to 25 lines                           25.00
- per PBX from 25 to 50 lines                      35.00
B.  Installation charge                                        30.00
C.  Trunk call (per call on HF radio system)                   5.00
2. Telegraph (domestic)
Nepalese:  first 30 letters (ordinary)                          1.50
English:   first 10 letters (ordinary)                          1.75
Proposed Tariffs for SIB/VHF Trunk Service
The: al                 7utcrir  Tllsez   Revenue    Revenue for 3 I4inutes
Price  Di-r ;,e -.vl2se 'er:;ods   per    -er iinute   Operator Connected
Class     km      in  0e_o-ds   linsute ie    s / lall in NRs
I      0-25       30.0          2         0.4              1.2
II     25-50       15.0          4         0.8              2.4
III     50-100       7.5           a        1.6              4.8
IV    100-200       5.0          12        2.4              7.2
V    200-400       4.0          15        3.0               9.0
VI    400-800       3.0          20        4.0             12.0
/*  For local calls the pulse value is NRs 0.2.  It is intended to maintain
this price of NRs 0.2 per pulse.
These rates are thought to be a reasonable compromise.  They are about 50%
of the STD rates established in Pakistan.  They also equate closely for
the shorter distances with rates in Euirope, but tend to be about 50% more
for the longer distances.
3.  Telex
A rental of NRs 4,800 per annum hao been agreed, together with a local
call charge of K.Rs 0.2 and no free call allauance.  Nepal's proportion of
international calls might be in the region of NRs 4.o.



NEPAL TELWW211l0ATQNS BOARD (NTB)                                                                             ANNU  14
Dvv*122!!*UAMi 1972/73
Fiscal Years                        1161161                  1969 70                  1970                                               972j3                    TOTALS
L.U       ForeLan       Local   Ircrelip         1,ocal.  joreM                     Foreign                  roreim
(A)    EXOHA.NGES
1      T.-thcba 600 line extension (auto)                               -                      10,000    50,000 G                                                                      -           10,000    50,000  G
1,)   Completion 3,400 line extension (auto) (4(0)                    25,000                                                                                                            -          25,DO0        -
2      P.tao 400 line extension (auto)                                                                                                             4,000    20,000 B        41000    20,000 B        8,000    40,000  B
3:     Bb.ktpmr 200 line (auto)                                                                                                                    2,000    lO,OD0 B        2,000    10,000 B        4,000    20,000  B
4.     Birgun  300 line (-uto)                                                                             33 000 I                 30,000 I                                 -           -            -        63,ooo  i
5.     Palug" Bhains., Amlekgmj and Simra (Wmu&l)                                                           2:5DO I                   -                                      -          -                       2,500  1
6.     R.Jbiraj 100 line (mmual)                                                                                                      -                                       400      2,000 B         4oo       2,000  B
7      J-..kpur 200 line (manual)                                                                                                    4,000 I                                                                    4 000  1
8:     H-taur. 100 line (mnual)                                                                                            400       2,000 B                                                           400      2:000  B
9.     Bi,.tngar 1,3DO lin- (aut-)                                                                                                     000 I                    000 I        -                                21J4 000I
J).    Dh.r-  400 lin. (auto)                                                                                          4,ODO       20:000 B       4,000    20:000 B         -                       Blooo    40,Ooo  B
11.    Jhapa (Bb.dr.pur) 100 lin. (Mnual)                                                                                            2,000 I                   -                                                2,000  I
P.kh-ra 150 line (nanual)                                                                                                     -                                       6oo      3,000 B         6oo      3,ODO  B
1      Bh,i,.-  100 lin. (,sanual)                                                                                         -          -                                       400      2,000 B         hoo      2,000  B
ill:    ep.lganj 200 line (manual)                                                                                        400       41000 B                                             -             400      4,000  B
15.    Ml&ogw- 50 line (anual)                                                                             -             -          -              200      1,000 B                                  200      1,000  B
TOTALS                                                              50.000 G -=            Ty M,   L    -               -             -          -                        -
4,800                              115,000
25,000                   10,000    35,500 I                  26,ooo B    10,200                      7,400    37,000 B    57,400   285,500I
-                       -           -            -                                  51, OM  B       -          -         (61,500)   50,0(0  G
1114, CooB
LOCAL DISTRIBTJTION
1.      Kthmsndo                                                      45,000                    7,000                                                         -             -                      52,ooo        -
p      Bh.ktpu                                                          -                        -                                                2, OGG    10,000 B       3,000    10,O(O B        5,000    20,000  B
Patm  400 line extension                                                                                                                   6,ooo    30,000 B        6,000    20,000 B    12,000    50, "    B
Birgmi                                                                                             24,-000 I                36,ooo I                    -            -           -            -        6o,coo  i
5.     R,Jbi,.j                                                                                             -                                                                80c)     3,00,0 B        800      3,000  B
6.      Janakp.r                                                                                                                     5,ODO I        -           -                                     -          5,000  I
7      He sor.                                                                                               -             Boo         000 B        -          -                                       800      3,000  B
8:     Bitr-t,ugar                                                                                         20,000                   73"ODO 1        -        90,O(O I                                 -       182,000I
8(-)   Copleti m1967-69 proi.iona                                      2,000                                -                                      -          -                                     2 ooO        -
9.     :)he,-                                                            -                                                          10,GDO 9       31000    10,000 B                                 3',OGO    20,000  8
Ili.    dhap. (Bi.drapur)                                                                                                           5,000 I        -          -                                                5,000  1
Ii.    MIsng..                                                                                                                       -              4oc)     2,ooo B                                  400      2,000  B
I O      khar,.                                                                                                                                                              800      3,000 B         800      3,000  B
13        ,r..                                                                                                                        -                                       6oo      2,000 B         6oo      2,000  8
14        P-Ig-j                                                                                                           800       3,000 B                                            -              800      3,000  B
)o-   ire line. md poles                                                                                        1,000        5.ooo B   _1                    B      2 GOO             B      4 OD(    20 000  B
TOTALS                             LXJU                                    I    2,600    nrW              I   00         000 I                        B    b2!200                I
-        21, 000 B                57, GOO B                             (52;000)  126,000B
TELEPHONES AND PBX
12, DOC)
Telepho.s                                                      2,400   12:000 G       (1-500                                                        7, 500 1                                         27 000  I
(6:000 B       2         3:000 B       2,100      9,000 B       2,100    16,000 B        9,300    36:ooo  B
P.      D-     ir. and fittig                                                      8 000 G                  4,000 B        -         2,000 B        -         6,ooo B        -        12,000 B        -          8,000  G
24,cco B
5.b..riber.- r.di.                                                                                    -          1,000       9,400 B       1,000                                             2,000       9, 4oO  B
L:      PBX                                                                                                                500       2      B        500         000 B      I 000      4 000 B       2 000       a cloo  B
-W                                               L=
TOTALS                                                                     I  ;!, tOO  -Ti%  I -TW   -r,70 I -tM                                       B 7tW  -&LW  I
10,000 B                16,400 B                 17,000 B                                (4,000)   20,000  1,
-                       -                        -                                               77,4o)  B
(D)    LONG DISTANCE
1.     R t  sn  - 17rguni land line and camier                                  300,000 I                Wo,ooo I                 123,GDO I                                                                  823,0001
1()   Bhaktapur land line carriw                                                   -                        -           3,000      i8,000 B                                                         3,000    18")(0  B
Pulh..ki-Bir.tnagar scatter link                                                       10,000    52, 000 B   10,000    100,000 B                                                           20,000   152,000B
K,th.  du-P.I.h..ki  icrovae frequency divemity                                           -          2,000 B    5,000       41,000 B                   -                                     5,000    43,00C  B
4.     Pul.h%ki-Biratn-w, Jhap-, Eharan, VHF                                                      -          6,000 B   31,ODO    100,000 B    20,000   200,000 B    10,ODO   100,000 B    61,000   4,)6, oooB
5 -    Pfhowki-Birgooj VHF                                                                                               2,000      20,000 B       5,000    52, OM  B        -          -            7,000    72,000  3
6.     P.I.h..ki-Pokhara VHF                                                                                               -          -           20,000    73,ODO B    10,000    30,000 B    30,000   103,(DDB
7.     Pl.hwki taira.. VHF                                                                                                 -          -          20,000    46,ooo B    io,ooo    6o,000 B    30,000   ic,6,oooB
B.     K.thandi-Np.lg-6 HF - S.S.B.                                                              1,000      2,000 B                                                                                  1,000      2,OO  B
8()   wireless extmsim  pmject                                        4  000                                                                                                                       4o ooo       -
TOTALS                        -*,W                 I -IT=                  I                        I 7r-000 r    B 70- 0-00 190-DOO B -J7,;-;0 M =,50 I
(E)    INTMUTIONAL                                                       -                                  4000                  279,000 B                                                      (230,000)  902,000R
1.     New    h-r -m-E  intemational exchaMe for line to India    -                                                                 38,000 1                                                                   38,000  I
Kthmsotc-C.lcutta HF ($10,000 already spmt in 1967/68)  -                11,000 I                                            -                                                                        11,000  I
Uthmandm-N-v Delhi HF - S.S.B. 5 k.                                                                54,Doo I                                                                                            54, wo  I
4.      Biratnagar-Jogbwd line                                                                              8,000 I                                                                                             8,W0  I
5 -    Ite-ation.1 telex switchboard                                                                         -                                    I OOC)      5 ooo B                                I 000      5 000  B
TOTAI.9                                           1                62,000 1                7F,=         I                    B
(7)    T-IZX                                                                                                                                                                                      (20,000)    5,ooo  B
"      t  srd. 50 lin. t.l.   xchang.                                                                                                           2,500    10,000 B                                 2, W      10, Z)OOB
b.cribers' equipment                                                                                                                    3 000    20 000 B         3 000    20 COO B        6 ooo    4c) ooc)B
qw                                  TOTALS                                                                                                                                                 B               -O'=  B
(G)    BUILDItIGS
1.     7;USm-M    intemational exchange md m  line to India                       75,000 I        -       135,000 I                                                                                           210,00CI
Dth-d. VqF -d                                                               -           10,000       -          3,000                                                                       13,000       -
Bi-t.ag.,                                                                                 -        29,000 I        -                                                                          -        29,000  I
4.      Dhpktap.                                                      Exists       -
5.     Bi,g,.,4                                                                    8,000 I        -         8,000 I                                                                                   -        16,ooo  I
6.      T-ko."                                                                                    -        12,000 I                                                                                   -        12,000  T
7.     Rjb, r.j                                                                                12,000       -                                                                                      12,000       -
2  r                                                           Wsts
Th.p. (13h.Jr.,.,)                                               -                                 12,000 1                                                                                            12,000  I
10.    Pokhar.                                                           -                                   -         12,000                                                                       12,(OO       -
11.    Shs iraa                                                          -                                   -         12,ODO                                                                      12,000        -
-1.    N.P.1genj                                                         -                      12,DDD       -                                                                                      12 000       -
1'.    Pulho.ki                                                                                             -             -                                                                           a
12,000                                                                                             12, 00
1.    )th-  VHF site. and bui2digs                                      -                        -          -         12,000                    24, ow                                            36,ooo        -
14(,)  Pr-ent ..tsin Biratnagar                                        1,400                     -          -             -          -             -                                                1,400       -
is.    9t,ff q.-ter.                                                     -                     10,000        -         20,000         -          20,000                   10,DDO                   6o,ooo        -
16.    Mi-ilare.vs                                                     -r,-                                  -          0 000                     0 000                   20                       66 ooo
TOTALS                                                   6 000                     -                         ---
-*Lm                                               4e,=
9)    XISCELIANEOUS                                                                                                                                                                              (215,000)
I.     T;7`ningH4pmnt                                                                                     lO,OD0 B                 20,000 B        -                                                          30,000  B
.hicles                                                                                           3O,OD0 9                 20,000 B        -        20,000 B                 20,000 B                 90,000  B
o.ls                                                                                             - 1-000 B  ____Z           LOOO B                   3,000 B                  3,000 B                 I  000  B
TOTALS                                                             43 000 B        -        44,000 B                 23,ODO B                 23,000 B                133 000B
(1)    C74WLTANTS                                                                               61ODO    501,000 B    2,000        50,000 B                   -                         -           8,OGO   100,000B
TOTAL PROGRAM
T.t.1 p,3j-.ot .-t before  ootiog.uci..                            529,800                 1,057,500                1,oo4,5m                    928,200                  438,700              3,958,700
.Contingencies on IU    expenditureg                                   -                      2o 625                   54 55D                    69 250                   44 000                188 425
Project costs including contingency                              -W                        1,070',12               1.059!60                   997%O                    02 700              4,147,'125
Fi.an..d by: IDK  (2)                                              Z
-on Im    -TM                                         '2
India  (1)                                       394,ODO                   745,oDo                  426,ooo                   2,                          -                 1,777,5oo Y
Self-geerated f-do (G)                           135,800 /2                147,500 A                142 100                                             86,700                673,800
TOTAL FINANCING:    US$ -quialent                              5296aoo               -E.-078.1.25              1.059:050                --9-91 450                _412 700
d-                    _A--               _4LII.&.125
NRO equi"lent at 10.125                5,36b,225                10,93-1,016                                        10,099,181
4,887,337            41,989,64c)
I/ As India I. undertaking local expenditure paid for in Indian rupee. md in order t. show the Nepal."  Government's local expenditure comitments,
ell .diea -p..dit-    h.. b"n shown as fomig..  Th. ..tual breakdown is $1,193,000 fomig. -d $582,500 local. Indian. 1-al expenditure figures f., th.  ai.us sections s,. shown in br"kets
2/ I=Iud.s $20,000 f ... ig. -chmge fin.nciog i. 1968/6 sod t50,000 in 1969/?O.                                                                                                                 June 24 , 1969



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 3 pages
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD (NTB)
Traffic and Engineering Design Factors
Local Telephone Service
Starting with 300 telephone stations in July 1960, and with
2,470 working stations in July 1968, local telephone growth over the
last eight years has been almost exactly 30% per annum compound. For
the period of the program, a growth of about 27 1/2% compound has been
allowed for. But after completion of the initial provisions, many of
which are needed to meet outstanding requirements, the demand for service
will tend to stabilize at an estimated 10 to 12% per annum.
Long-Distance
The best guide that can be used is that of calling rates in
other developing countries where similar conditions apply or have applied
in the past. We have taken for our basis of estimating an originating
traffic figure per direct exchange line of .025 erlang, or 1.5 minutes of
paid trunk time per subscriber per day, with a traffic concentration of
20% in the busy hour. This equates to a latest figure for Pakistan in
1965/66 of about 1.75 minutes of paid trunk time per subscriber per day.
Whilst Pakistan has advanced further in its development of business and
industry, and this would give :ise to higher long-distance calling rates,
there is a compensating factor in Nepal due to the very low telephone
density, even on completion of the program, and usage of the available
telephones by an increased number of persons. The long-distance rates
to be applied in Nepal will also be appreciably lower than those applied
in Pakistan.
International Telephone Traffic
NTD had the advantage here of being able to project growth as
related to an existing service. However, the quality of the present
service is extremely poor, and is undoubtedly a restricting factor in the
use of the service in question. Almost the whole of the present traffic
is either to India or routed through India, although a service is available
on a scheduled basis to East and West Pakistan. Total number of calls
recorded in 1967/68 was 13,600 outgoing and 14,100 incoming, with an
average call duration of 3.2 minutes. It has been assumed that, whilst
the present network is almost wholly made up of administrative and business
subscribers, a number of residential subscribers will be connected in the
future and international traffic will, therefore, grow only in relation to
66% of the growth rate for telephone subscribers, i.e., 24% for 1968/69,
20% for 1969/70, 17% for 1970/71, 15% for 1971/72, 14% for 1972/73, and
13% for 1973/74. However, it is estimated that when a good quality service
is made available towards the end of fiscal year 1969/70, there will be a 20%
increase in traffic resulting from the improved circuit conditions. Cn the
basis of CCITT figures of 54 calls per circuit per day and a   290-day
business year, circuit requirements to India are: 1967/68 - 2 circuits;



ANXNEX 15
rageP eof 3 pages
1968/69 - 2 circuits; 1969/70 - 3 circuits; 1970/71 - 4 circuits;
1971/72 - 4 circuits; 1972/73 - 4 circuits. Pakistan, can, for the
foreseeable future, c cntinue to be taken care of with HF schedules
using the higher power radio equipment.
Domestic Telegraph Traffic
Recent increases in internal telegraph traffic have been at the
rate of 6.5% per annum. However, consideration must be given to the
effects of providing long-distance telephone service to a number of the
centers at present served only by the HF point-to-point telephone/telegraph
links. The mission therefore prepared an analysis of the terminating
traffic to the various centers in question and related to the overall
traffic. This indicates that the percentage of traffic likely to be
affected by the provision of telephone service is 1h%. Assuming a 3-minute
telephone call is equivalent to two telegraph messages, and working from
the anticipated telephone traffic figures, we can calculate that telegraph
traffic  should show the following net increases:   1968/69 - 6.5%;
1969/70 - 6.5%;  1970/71 - 5.4%;  1971/72 - 4.8%;  1972/73 -.2$;
increasing to 6.5 in 1973/74 assuming no further trunk line provisions are
made in that year.
International Telegraph Revenue
It is assumed that the existing rate of growth of 25% per annum
will continue, although here there should be reduction of 20% in 1971/72
when an improved grade of telephone service can be offered over the new
route to India.
Analysis of Technical Provisions
(a) Exchanges
In the exchange provisions, the decision has been wisely
taken in the case of the main centers to install automatic telephone
exchanges of the crossbar type. Crossbar exchanges as produced by the
leading manufacturers are of proven design and reliability, offer a good
standard of service and require little maintenance effort. Present
experience in Nepal with the Kathmandu exchange indicates that crossbar
equipment can be effectively maintained by Nepalese personnel, provid6d
that suitable training is given. At other than the main centers, it is
proposed to install manual exchanges of either the central battery or
magneto type. This is the best solution where maintenance of automatic
equipment might present prcblems and where a considerable part of the
traffic will in any case have to be operator-switched. However,provision
has been made in the design of the network for the introduction of
subscriber long-distance dialing at a later date.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
(b) Trunk Circuits
In the case of the route now under construction between
Kathmandu and Raxaul via Hetaura and Birgunj, it can be questioned
whether the financial aspects of the provision as related to maintenance
and depreciation commitments were adequately examined, particularly
bearing in mind the service problems and loss of revenue likely to result
from interruptions, which seem almost inevitable in view of the terrain
over which the line is routed. However, the work has reached a stage
where it cannot reasonably be stopped. With the exception of one other
short land line section between Biratnagar and Jogbani, all the other
long-distance provisions contained in the program are to be made using
either microwave, UHF or VHF scatter radio systems. These are the most
economic solutions in a territory with Nepal's topographical problems.
The decision between UHF and microwave has rightly been taken on the
-basis of circuit requirements and system capacity required at the end
of the useful life of the equipment. The decision to provide the
scatter system to Biratnagar, instead of UHF standby equipment on the
main route, has been taken on the basis that it provides full triangu-
lation and greater reliability at lower cost than the standby system,
although admittedly it has a lower capacity.
In view of the possible unreliability of the land line route
from Kathmandu to Raxaul, it is proposed to parallel it with a UHF
system over the section from Kathmandu to Birgunj. This is a reasonable
provision in light of the importance of the route in question. The
facilities provided will be more than adequate to meet requirements for
the foreseeable future and give a greatly improved standard of service
for telephone, telegraph and telex purposes.
(c) Telex Facilities
There is an unfilled existing demand which more than
justifies the provision of a small exchange in the Kathmandu Valley area
together with international facilities. The type of equipment to be
selected can well be left open and decided upon in light of the tenders
received.
June 24, 1969



NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD (NTB )
Number of Telephone Lines and Stations Based on Project Provisions
E X IST IN G                                                    F   0    P.   P    C    A    S    T
July X69           J S69 T           July  1969        JulY  1970       July              July  1972      July 1973        July 1974
Exten-             Exten-             Exten-           Exten-           Exten-           Exten-           Exten-           Exten-
Lines   sions      Lines   sions       Lines  sions    Lines  sions    Lines  sions    Lines  sions    Lines  sions    Lines  sions
Kathmandu                1,600 )            1,675 )             2,060 )          2,785 )          3,440 )          4,155 )          4,490 )          5,000
)                  )                   )                )                )                )                )                )
Patan                      Nil )    290        200 )    335        340 )  395      425 )  470       500 )   570      550 )   685      600 )   820      850 ) 1,000
)                  )                   )                )                )                )                )                )
Biratnagar                 300)                300)                300)            380)             400              500)             800)             950)
Singha Durbar                -      280          -      280          -     290       -      300       -      300       -      300       -      300       -      300
Bhaktapur (200                         -        -          -        -            -            -       -        I       -        -     100       10     150       15
Birgunj (300)                               -         -        -        -                     -      100      10     150       15     200       20     250       25
Janakpur (200)               _-                       -        -        -                     -       60       6      90        9     150       15     180       20
Rajbiraj (100)               -         -         -         -         -       -        -       -         -      -       -        -      60        6       90      10
Dharan (400)                 -         -         -         -             -        -           _         -      -     100       12     170       20     200       20
Jhapa (100)                  -        -          -        -                                           40       L      50        5      80       10     100       10
Malangwa (50)                               -         -             -       -                           -      -        -       -       30       3       4
Pokhara (150)                -         _-                                   -        -                                  -       -       30      90      100     120
Hetaura (100)                -         -         -         -         _       _        _       _         _      _       20       2       30       3       60       6
Bhairhawa (100)              _-                                            -                                            -       -      30        5       60      10
Nepalganj (200)              _-                           -                           -         _40            6       75      10      100      10      150      10
Minor (50)                   -                            -                          10                20      2       10*      -*      30        3      50        5
Total Lines and
Extensions            1,900      570      2,175      615      2,700     685   3,600      770    4,600    898   5,700   1J038   6,900   1,315   8,230   1,556
Total Stations               -    2,070          -    2,790          -   3,385        -   h,370         -  5,h98        -   6,738        -   8,215        -   9,786
a,
1/  Trunk revenue forecasts are based on route completion dates.
2/  *Reduction resulting from opening of Hetaura exchange.
June 24, 1969



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 6
NEPAL TELECOMUNICATIONS BOARD (M1TB)
Economic Justification
Cost Benefit Analysis of Proposed Project
A. Capital Costs (in NRs Million)
Years:                    1                  5.36
2                 10.92
3                 10.72
4                 10.10
5                  14.89
Total               41.99
B.  Benefits (in NRs Million)
Operating
Revenue              Tamenses               Benefits
Years:     1          - 0 -                 - 0 -                  - 0 -
2         0.318                  0.069                 0.249
3         1,378                  0.211                 1.167
4         2.730                 0.399                  2.331
5         5.472                  1.072                 4.400
6         8.035                  1.272                 6.763
7         9.823                  1.518                 8.305
20
Assuming a lifetime of tilenty years and constant benefits after
the seventh year, the common discounting factor or internal rate of return
would be 14.9%.  Below are the estimates of future revenues and expenses.
1. Estimate of Ooerating ExTpenses A.ttributable to Project
(in NRs ',000>77)
1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975
a.  Labor cost (additional
personnel required)                        50   155   264   277   277
b. Non-labor:
- in % of new LUIs                 11.3% i6.5,i' 20.1% 29.9% 41.1% 46.7%
- in NfRs 1,000                      69   131   204   365   552   798
c.  New non-labor cost                             30    40   443  1443   443
Total                               69   211   399 1,072 1,272 1,518



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 6
NEPAL TELECOrIYMNICATIONIS BOARD (NTB)
2.  Estinate of Revenues Attributable to Prolect /1
1269  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975 /2
1. Local service
Total LU's c*o:icXJted        2,700 3,600 4,600 5,700 6,900 8,230 9,090
of ihich provided under project       405   760 1,165 2,060 3,390 4,250
as a pcrccntagc of total            11.3% 16.5% 20.4% 29.9% 41.1% 46.7%
Total revenue from local service   2.818 3.630 4.529 5.538 6.161 6.746
of i.hich attributable to -p)roject   0.318 0.599 0     1           3.150
2. Domestic trunk service (revenue            0.118 1.076 2.897 4.576 5.738
from new installations as shown in
Annex 10 page 3.For the year 1975
an increase of 25.4% is assumed
according to connected LU increase
from 3,390 to 4,250)
3. Domestic telegraph (about 7% of
revenue allocated to new invest-
ments)                                                 0.118 0.126 0.134
4. International telegraph (4/5 of
traffic will be tranramitted on
new equipment povided under
project)                                  0.591 0.591 0.591 0.591 0.591
5. Telex (entirely new project)               0.070 0.140 0.210 0.210 0.210
Total revenue from investments
made under project              -  0.318 1.378 2.730 5.472 8         9.823
/1  Only the revenues directly attributable to the new installations are
considered. However, this underestimates the additional revenues
somewhat, because the expansion of a system allows also a higher
utilization of already existing facilities.
/2  This assumes that in 1975 all LU are connected and that total
revenues increase proportionate (9.5%).



AMSEX 17
Page 3 of 6 pages
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Notes and Assumptions
The following examples are meant to illustrate a few of the likely
benefits Nepal can expect from this project. Due to the almost complete
lack of economic data, reasonable assumptions had to be made in most
cases.
1. Additional Convertible Merchandise Export Earnings
According to data received from the Rastra Bank, total merchan-
dise exports against convertible foreign exchange in 1967/68 amounted to
roughly NRs 100 million. Since the devaluation of the Indian rupee in
1966 the most important export items against convertible foreign exchange,
accounting for95% of this category, are jute and jute products which are
mainly sold on the London market. Offers are made by cab-le. According
to jute and jute-good exporters, who are located in Biratnagar, with
present facilities a cable from Biratnagar can take as long as five days
to reach the market in London. Merchandise is usually offered at the
latest known market price, which again might be as much as five days old.
During and after the harvest, jute prices can fluctuate considerably;
maximum changes being around 25%. Due to the fact that market price in-
formation is not up-to-date and sales orders are subject to a consi-
derable time lag, Nepali exporters tend to miss the best sales price.
Assuming that price changes are on the average 5% from the moment price
information is sent froml London to Nepal and the moment Nepal's offer is
received in London, or, to put it differently, if Nepal misses attaining
the maximum price on the average by 5%, the loss in revenue is iRs 5
million per annum.  The costs of better facilities which allow immediate
access to the London market, and give therefore the opportunity to sell
at maximum prices, are negligible, compared with the benefits.  Similar
advantages can be expected for other export items.
2. Additional Earnings from Foreign Tourists
According to the budget speech of the Minister of Finance cover-
ing the year 1968/69, tourism is expected and planned over the next few years
to become the main source of Nepalts convertible foreign exchange earnings.
In 1967/68 about 22,000 tourists visited Nepal and spent M1Rs 7.6 million in
convertible currencies. This figure of 22,000 tourists does not include
Indian tourists nor the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims who come to Nepal
annually. On the other hand, it incides non-tourist visitors from countries
other than India.  The average tourist stays about 2-3 nights in Nepal.lWith
very little additional investment to upgrade sonne of the hotels, Kathmandu
could accommodate 2-3 times the present number of tourists. The present air



AN14EX 17
Page h of 6 pages
facilities could accommodate about twice the number of present
passengers. According to an inquiry made in international travel offices
for an international conference in Bangkok, the potential guests who would
want to visit Nepal annually number 70,000. Miany of these potential
guests do not fly to Nepal because it is not possible to receive confir-
mation of hotel or flight reservations in time. Assuming that this
category numbers 22,000, with adequate telecommunication facilities as
provided under this project and fairly minor additional investments in
tourist facilities, mainly to upgrade hotels, and negligible additional
operating costs to the economy, the revenues from tourism in convertible
currencies could be doubled. Only a very small percentage of the addi-
tional revenues in the neighborhood of 1.2% is included under revenues
attributable to the project. This assumes slightly less than one inter-
national call per foreign tourist, in view of the fact that most tour-ists
come in groups.
3. Additional Revenues Due to Prolongation of Stay in Nepal
The wealth of Kathmandu's cultural historical monuments is at
present the main tourist attraction, for which two to three days are
reserved. Pokhara, about 70 miles to the west of Kathmandu, offers an
entirely different attraction, with the steeply towering summits of
Annapurna and Mlachhapuchhare, which belong to the most beautiful mountains
of the Himalayas and present a unique panorama. There are daily flights
from Kathmandu to Pokhara, but return reservations cannot be obtained in
Kathmandu nor can hotel accomodation be secured in a reasonably short
period. If the possibility existed to reserve flights and hotel in advance,
many wealthier foreign tourists would extend their stay in Nepal by about
two nights, including Pokhara in their schedule. If we assume that exist-
ing facilities (air transport and hotels) could accomodate 30 additional
tourists per day, each spending an average of NRs 300 per day, per person,
for a total of NRs 9,000 per day, and if we also assume that half this
would be used to cover additional costs, then the additional net benefits
accruing to the economy per season of eight months wTould be in the
neighborhood of NiRs 2.8 million. Additional investments in all tourist
facilities can multiply these benefits.
4. Additional Earnings on Food Exports to India
The latest foreign trade statistics available for Nepal are for
the fiscal year 1963/6h. But even those figures are not much more than
an estimate due mainly to the extensive unaccounted border trade with
India.  It is, however, reasonably safe to assume that today 905G of Nepal's
exports - most of which are rice and other food stuff - are sold from the
Terai to neighboring India. Since there is no east-west transport link
in Nepal, trade has traditionally moved on north-south routes regardless of
whether this brought exports to a high - or low-priced area, since once in
India the goods could not be shipped over state frontiers due to Indian
regulations on food zone restrictions and the statutory rationing zones.
With the newr east-west highway, which will be completed at the same time
as the new telecommunication link to the Terai and to Ind,a, it will be
physically possible to transport goods wzithin Nepal to the point adjacent
to the shortage area and export them at the prevailing market rates. To



ANN\TEX 17
Page  of 6 pages
shift goods quickly from surplus to shortage areas, adequate telecommuni-
cation facilities are essential. The additional revenues would therefore
have to be divided between the road and the telecommunication projects.
A modest assumption would put the additional net revenues to the Nepalese
econony at about 5%. Calculated on total food exports to India (estimated
at roughly NRs 1 billion per annum), the additional revenues would be
NRs 50 million. If only one-tenth this additional revenue were allocated
to the telecommunication project, this would increase its benefits by
NRs 5 million per annum.
5. Others
Many other benefits to be derived from this project are even more
difficult to quantify. Although it is obvious that Government will benefit
by savings on civil servants' time and on transportation costs, data are not
available to calculate these savings. The same is true for private business-
men who depend on licenses,permits or information from Government. At
present, businessmen from the Terai have to fly to Kathmandu for even the
least complicated transaction, many of which could be handled by phone for
a fraction of the transportation or labor cost. Furthermore, no data are
available on domestic trade, which depends heavily on accurate and immediate
information.   Nepalese price statistics suggest enormous price differences
from town to town for the same produce. Experience with the new road from
the Terai to Pokhara, not quite complete but already usable, has shown that
good roads have a strong price equalization effect. Prices of cement, steel
and similar bulk goods have decreased about threefold, whereas there has
not been as much effect in the case of minor goods of limited consumption.
This would indicate that transportation and telecommunication provisions
together have the most beneficial effect in contributing to the optimal
allocation of resources. Up-to-date knowledge of the market situation will
lead to purchases from the optimal sources, thereby securing the optimal
allocation of resources and an :optimal division of labor. Thus, tropical
fruits might no longer be grown at high cost on valuable Kathmandu Valley
soil but imported from Biratnagar, while wheat-growing might be left to
the hill country.
6.        Another example that underscores the significance of telecommuni-
cations for Nepal are the needs of the foreign aid missions. According to
the 1968/69 budget, contributions from foreign countries are expected to
cover 60% of Nepal's development budget. The efficient operation of the
various foreign agencies depends to a large extent on quick communication
with their countries on the one hand, and on their project staff in the
field on the other.
7.        Factors such as health, livelihood, security, civil order and
independence are even more difficult to evaluate economically, although
they obviously have a strong impact on the economy. In addition, Nepal
has certain obligations as a member of the international community which
it cannot fulfill without adequate telecommunications. To cite an example,



ANNEX 17
Page 7Tof 6 pages
Nepal has a representative in the UN Security Council. Consultations with
his Government on how to vote can, with present telecomrunication facilities,
take as long as five days - much too long in event of emergency sessions.
8.        When the few quantified additional benefits to the economy
mentioned above are added to the direct benefits of the project, the
economic rate of return would be as high as 40%. This suggests that
the project is of very high economic priority. This is due to the fact
that this is the first provision of efficient long distance telephone
service, which will satisfy high priority demand. When the system will
be expanded to satisfy less urgent needs, the incremental economic
benefits are bound to be less significant. In all the examples des-
cribed under para. 1-4 additional revenues or expenditures included in
the financial return to .'TL or additional costs or benefits accruing to
the economy were only considered in the calculation of the economic rate of
return if they were estimated to amount to more than one tenth of a mil-
lion of NRs per annum.
June 24, 1969



I'    LA   ~~~      NLA~
/                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEP)AL
C'7BaiTAOI                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD
ONAJJNA< T' JUMLA                                                                            HF RADIO  AND LINE NETWORKS
PACHUAN K-    * ~~~~~~~~~~~DOIA    (             *     -TA. I
MtAHE(NDRANAGAR 
RAwAc~~0    'OHANGARHI  ~?                    AJARKOT ,. 
--HIFT     RUKU-KOT                             0 ~~A.A NG -.     J, 
BAHAURCAJ  .?~ BrWAL-.,OHANTAURKATIMANL   6
" I    7l___        \                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ISW
INTERNAL H  RADIO ROUESAGN   )                  II TAAR*.,
:, SYANJA~~~, 
.    LANDLINE  ROUTE~~~~~~~~~DA
0   0   10  RN  00  40  00  60  70  60  90  ONMILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
To-   - -          ZOA  BOUNDARY._C., KOT9
HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BO21O
JUNE  1969~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                       HUA



NEPAL
j  \.                                                            TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOARD
TELEPHONE DEVELOPMENT
F                                                                        <e                                LONG DISTANCE ROUTES & EXCHANGES
3                                                                                                J  v/  9   
NEPALGANJ                                          POKHARA'
N"                                                                 PATAN    KATHMANDU                                    "                       >
BHAKTAPUR
L E G E N D                                _PHULCHOWKI
EXISTING AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE EXCHANGE                                      ./-4-  _                                     gf 
,  t \ '   _ HETAURA
_________NEW MANUAL TELEPHONE EXCHANGES                                                               .
 - -NEW AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE EXCHANGES
". BIRGUNJ
- - - - __   MICROWAVE SYSTEM                                                                                   MALANGWA#
_ ___ UHF OR VHF SYSTEM                                                                              *RAXA"                                                         *DHARAN
LANDLINE AND CARRIER ROuTE                                                                     PATNA                    R                                              JHAPA
'%R'A.JBIRAJ ;._ .BIRATNGA..
HF RADIO  SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                ._.GAR.
- - - - - SCATTER (VHF) SYSTEM                                                 I                                          aJOGSANI
_ -EXISTING CABLE ROUTE
1A   0   ID  EO  30  40  so  en  70 i          90  DOt MILEA
.- -_ __ ___ACTIVE REPEATER  STATION
-_ - - -- -   PASSIVE REPEATER STATION
JUNE 1969                                                                                                                                                                                          IERD-2541R



