CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 166 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 166 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1969


﻿Uprlopi~ment TJrebit Agrerment
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 1969, between KING-
DOM OF NEPAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL EVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTI,, 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NT1" means the Nepal Telecommunications Board,
established under the Development Board Act, 1956, of the
Borrower by Notification Volume 19, Special Issue 30 of
the Borrower dated October 17, 1969, to succeed to the
assets, facilities and operations of the Nepal Department
of Telecommunications of the Ministry of Works, Transport
and Communications of the Borrower; and
(b) "NRs" means rupees in the currency of the Bor-
rower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development


﻿4
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($1,700,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the imount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed under this Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be
made on account of payments in the currency of the Bor-
rower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one


﻿5
per cent (% of 1) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and
September 15 commencing September 15, 1979 nid ending
March 15, 2019, each instal1lment to and including the
instal'ment payable on March 15, 1989 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/ of 1/) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1y,/) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01, The Borrower shall apply, or cause to be
applied, the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the
provisions of this Development Credit Agreement to ex-
penditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
(Juidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods and
services shall be subject to the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation, except as otherwise provided in such Schedule 3.
SECTIoN 3.03. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services ffianced out


﻿6
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in
carrying out the Project, except as the Association may
otherwise agree.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound admiiistrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. (a) Upon request from time to time by
the Association, the Borrower shiall promptly furish or
cause to be furnished to the Association the plans, specifi-
cations and -- ork schedules for the Project and any mate-
rial modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail
as the Association shall request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of NTB;
(ii) enable the Association 's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, NTB's properties and equipment and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the expend-
iture of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and the administration, operations and financial condition
of NTB.


﻿,
7
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall rea-
sonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of
the service thereof. The Borrower shall promptly inform
the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured the imported goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTIOx 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the organi-
zation and functions of NTB to be implemented and the
operations and activities of NTB to be carried out (i) in
such manner as to satisfy the criteria specified in Sched-


﻿S
ule 4 to this Agreement and (ii) under rules mutually
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend, suspend or terminate any pro-
vision of Notification Volume 19, Special Issue 30 of the
Borrower dated October 17, 1969 establishing NTB.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
transfer of the assets and the functions required for the
efficient operation of NTB, and the valuation of such assets
on a basis acceptable to the Association, shall be completed
by not later than July 16, 1970.
SECTION 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall cause NTB to adopt and
put into operation, by not later than July 16, 1970, a com-
mercial accounting system acceptable to the Association.
Such commercial accounting system shall replace the pres-
ent system of maintaining accounts, and any statements
required by the Borrower in respect of NTB's revenues
and expenditures, including development expenditures, will,
after the adoption of such system by NTB, be furnished
not more frequently than quarterly.
(b) After the adoption of the accounting system referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
commencing with the fiscal year beginning in July 1970,
cause the financial statements (balance sheet and related
statement of earnings and expenses) of NTB to be audited
and certified annually by an independent auditor or  udit-
ing firm acceptable to the Association and shall promptly
after their preparation, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, not later than five months after the close
of the fiscal year to which they apply, transmit to the Asso-
ciation certified copies of such statements and a signed copy
of the auditor's or auditing firm's report.
SECTION 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:


﻿9
(a) engage consultants acceptable to the Association on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to
make recommendations on and assist in the implementation
of:
(i) the operating organization and the procedures to be
adopted by NTB for the efficient conduct of its
business in accordance with Section 4.05 (a) of this
Agreement; and
(ii) the commercial accounting system referred to in
Section 4.06(a) of this Agreement;
(b) cause NTB to employ for periods satisfactory to
the Association experts acceptable to the Association for
the positions of Financial Comptroller and Business Man-
ager of NTB;
(c) secure for NTB the services of sufficient qualified
accountants for the implementation of the commercial ac-
counting system referred to in Section 4.06 (a) of this
.dlkAgreement;
(d) make arrangements in consultation with the Asso-
ciation for the training of NTB's accounting staff; and
(e) formulate and carry out a program satisfactory to
the A,sociation for the expansion and improvement of
training facilities for telecommunications technicians and
new employees.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall promptly pay, or
cause to be paid, at normal rates applicable to all users, to
NTB, on a current basis, all charges incurred after July
13, 1969 (or such other date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association) by the Borrower or by
any of its departments, agencies or instrumentalities in
respect of telecommunications services furnished by NTB.
SECTION 4.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not make, or permit to be made,
prior to the completion of the Project, expenditures (other


﻿10
than expenditures for the Project) for the expansion of
NTB's telecommunications facilities exceeding in the aggre-
gate the equivalent of $100,000 in any fiscal year.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower shall make available lo
NTB the proceeds of the Credit under arra rements satis-
factory to the Association. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, such arrangements shall provide inter alia
that NTB shall transfer periodically to the Borrower
amounts representing (i) interest on such. proceeds at the
rate of 61/ fo per annum  and (ii) amortization of such
proceeds over a term of approximately 12 years, including
a grace period of two years, from the date of this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower shall cause NTB:
(a) to operate NTB's business and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound business, public utility and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management and to operate, maintain, renew and repair its
plants, equipment and property in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices;
(b) to take all action reasonably required to maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
necessary or useful in the conduct of NTB's business;
(c) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for
insurance against such risks and in such amount as shall
be consistent with sound practice; and
(d) not to sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of
any of its properties or assets which shall be required
for the efficient carrying on of its business, without the
consent of the Association.
SECTION 4.12. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall:


﻿11
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, at present
levels the existing tariffs for telecommunication
services until the end of the fiscal year ending in
July 1973;
(ii) by not later than July 15, 1970, establish and put
into effect
(A) tariffs for the trunk telephone and telex serv-
ices to be provided by facilities included in
the Project and
(B) the amount of the deposit for telephone in-
struinents to be paid by new subscribers
at levels not less than those specified in Schedule 5
to this Agreement, and maintain such tariffs at the
levels so established until the end of the fiscal year
ending July 1973; and
(iii) establish and maintain tariffs for the fiscal year
beginning in July 1973 and thereafter so as to pro-
duce an annual rate of return on the average value
of NTB's not fixed assets in operation of 8/ or
such higher return as may be agreed from time to
time between the Borrower and the Association in
order to met NTB's cash requirements for its
operations, debt service, appropriate portions of
its capital expansion, and distributions from prof-
its, if any, to the extent that the other requirements
are met.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) (iii) of this Sec-
tion:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net operating income of NTB for the
fiscal year in question to the average of the net
depreciated value of NTB 's fixed assets in operation
at the beginning and at the end of the year in
question.


﻿12
(ii) "Net operating income" shall mean the difference
between
(A) all operating revenues accruing from NTB's
telecommunications services; and
(B) all operating costs of NTB's telecommunica-
tions services, including administrative ex-
penses, adequate maintenance and provision
for depreciation on all depreciable assets in
operation, computed in accordance with the
straight-line method at an average rate of
not less than 5% per annum of the value of
such depreciable assets as established under
subparagraph (iii) below but excluding inter-
est and other charges on debt.
(iii) "Net depreciated value of NTB's fixed assets in
operation" shall mean the gross value of such
assets less accumulated depreciation, adjusted in
accordance with methods agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association to reflect changes in cur-
rent prices of such assets.
SECTION 4.13. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not incur, or permit to be
incurred, any debt for the benefit of NTB unless NTB's
net revenues for the preceding fiscal year or for any later
consecutive twelve-month period, whichever is the greater,
shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service require-
ment on all debt incurred for the benefit of NTB (including
the debt to be incurred) for any succeeding fiscal year
(including the fiscal year in which such debt is to be
incurred).
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" shall not include debt payable
on demand or maturing not more than ome year
after its date.


﻿13
(ii) The term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes fhe assumption and guarantee of debt and
any renewal, extension or modification of the terms
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred
on the date of execution and delivery of a contract,
loan agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt or for the refinancing of such debt.
(iii) The term  "net revenues" means gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of NTB 's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating, maintenance and
overhead expenses, but before provision for depre-
ciation and inLerest and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably deter-
mined by the Association.
SECTION 4.14. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under 1:he laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territo.ies.


﻿1
14
SECTION 4.15. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SE cTIoN 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at
its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTIOx 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The Borrower shall have made arrangements satis-
factory to the Association to implement the provisions of
Section 4.08 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall have employed, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, the consultants,
experts and accountants referred to in Section 4.07(a), (b)
and (c) of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall have made arrangements satis-
factory to the Association to finance the portion of the
Project not financed by the Credit.


﻿15
SECTION 6.02. The date of March 1, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12 and 4.13
of this Agreement shall terminate on the earlier of:
(i) the date on which this Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or
(ii) the date 12 years after the date of this Development
Credit Agreement or the date on which the proceeds
of the Credit made available to NTB pursuant to
Section 4.10 of this Agreement shall have been
amortized by transfers to the Borrower, whichever
shall be the later.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1974
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Secretary to the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Ministry of Finance
Singha Durbar
Kathmandu, Nepal


﻿16
Por the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By   /s/ KUL SHEKHAR SHARMA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                            in Dollar Equivalent
I. Telephone exchanges, local distribution
network, subscribers conniections and
apparatus                                322,000
11. Long-distance microwave, IHF, VHF
and HF systems                           907,000
111. Telegraph and telex equipment             50,000
IV. Vehicles, tools and training aids        133,000
V. Consultants                               100,000
TI. Unallocated                              188,000
Total   1,700,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to V shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for, such
Category will be reallocated by the Association to Cate-
gory VI.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to V shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the Associa-
tion, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from
Category VI, subject, however, to the requtirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect
of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the Borrower's program for the expansion
and modernization of NTB 's telecommunication facilities
duriiig the period July 1968-July 1973. The Project includes
the following principal items:
1. Expansion of local telephone exchanges to increase the
net capacity by approximately 3,600 lines of automatic
equipment and 1,000 lines of manual equipment, together
with the necessary cables and subscriber equipment to add
approximately 6,000 installations.
2. Expansion of domestic long distance communication
facilities by installation of long distance telephone trunk
lines, super high frequency and ultra high frequency radio
trunk systems, a very high frequency radio scatter system
and extensions of the high frequency telephonetelegraph
network, together with ancillary equipment.
3. Expansion and improvement of international commu-
nications facilities by establishment of an international
trunk exchange at Kathmandu, installation of land line and
carrier routes to India, improvement of high frequency
radio-telephone system to New Delhi and installation of
an international telex switchboard at Kathiandu, together
with ancillary equipment.
4. Installation of telex facilities for approximately 50
subscribers in Kathmandi.
5. Construction of buildings required for the technical
installations referred to above, and provision of miscel-
laneous equipment such as vehicles and tools.
6. The setting up of NTB's organization to enable it to
conduct its affairs on the basis of sound business, financial
and public utility practices and the establishment along
commercial lines of an effective accounting system for NTB.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to goods referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement and in Categories I, II, III and IV of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, identical or similar items to be
procured shall be grouped together wherever practical for
the purposes of bidding and procurement, and such group-
ing of items shall be subject to approval by the Association.
2. With respect to contracts for procurement of goods
and services referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
estimated to cost in excess of $50,000 equivalent:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of con-
tract, all other tender documents and the method and
places of advertising will be submitted to the Association
for its review and approval prior to the issuance of invi-
tations to bid.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analysis of the bids, and the proposals for awards, together
with the reasons for such proposals, will be submitted to
ihe Association for its review and approval prior to the
Borrower's making any award of contract or issuing any
letter of intent.
(c) If the final contract is to differ substantially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective docu-
nients approved by the Association under paragraphs (a)
and (b) above, the text of the proposed changes will be
submitted to the Association for its review and approval
prior to the execution of such contract.
(d) As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract has been executed, a copy thereof will be sent to
the Association.
3. With respect to contracts for procurement of goods
and services referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement


﻿20
estimated to cocit $50,000 equivalent or Iess, copies of the
invitation to bid, a bid analysis and evaluation, the contract
or order and any other documents the Association may
request Will be sent to the Association promptly after the
execution of the respective contract and prior to the sub-
missioi to the Association of the first application for witS-
drawal of funds from Ilie Credit Account in respect of such
con tract.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Criteria Referred to in
Section 4.05 (a) of this Agreement
1. The managing board and the chief executive officer of
NTB shall have sufficient financial and operational respon-
sibility to enable them to manage NTB's activities and
operations efficiently and on the basis of sound financial
and managenent principles.
2. NTB shall retain and exercise control over the funds
generated by its business and otherwise available to it and
shall be permitted to utilize such funds in accordance with
annual budget appropriations so as to operate its business
efficiently and to carry out its development program. After
taking into account the cash requirements for the following
year, profits may be paid into the Consolidated Fund.
3. NTB shall have a commercial accounting system as
its only requlire system of accounting.
4. NTB shall be required to adopt measures to improve
the labor performance and productivity standards of its
employees.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Tariffs and Subscriber Deposit
The minimum levels for the tariffs and subscriber deposit
referred to in Section 4.12(a) (ii) of this Agreement are
as follows:
I. SHFIVHF Trunk Service
Revenue
for
Radial    Metering   Pulses   Revenue  3 minute
Price     distance  pulse period  per  per minute manual call
class      km       in seconds  minute  in NRs   in NRs
I         0-25      30          2       0.4       1.2
II        25-50      15          4       0.8       2.4
III        50-100      7.5        8       1.6       4.8
IV       100-200       5.0       12       2.4      7.2
V        200-400      4.0       15       3.0      9.0
VI       400-800       3.0       20       4.0     12.0
II. Telex Service
Rental per annum                  NRs 4,800.-
Local call charge                 NRs     0.2
III. Subscriber Deposit
Deposit of NRs 500 from each new telephone service sub-
scriber, repayable upon the subscriber's terminating the
service.


