                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 32365-VN




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (IF-N0260 TF-29548 TF-29270 TF-20966)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 71.3 MILLION (US$98.61 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                             SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                           FOR A

                                 WATER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                        June 20, 2006




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                                      VND1 = US$ 0.0000633
                                       US$ 1 = VND 15,788

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA       Analytical and Advisory Activities
ADB       Asian Development Bank
AusAid    Australian Bilateral Assistance
BOO       Build-Own-Operate
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
Danida    Danish Bilateral Development Agency
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GIS       Geography Information System
GOV       Government of Vietnam
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group (of the Bank)
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
MOC       Ministry of Construction
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOFA      Ministry of Foreighn Affairs (Finland)
NRW       Non-Revenue Water
ODA       Official Development Assistance
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PHRD      Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMU       Project Management Unit
PWC       Provincial Water Companies
QAG       Quality Assurance Group (of the Bank)
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SBV       State Bank of Vietnam
TA        Technical Assistance
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
WSC       Water Supply Company
WTP       Water Treatment Plant



                            Vice President:     Mr. Jeffrey Gutman, Acting EAPVP
                          Country Director:     Mr. Klaus Rohland, EACVF
                           Sector Director:     Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                        Task Team Leader:       Mr. Alan Coulthart, EASUR

                              SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                                    WATER SUPPLY PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
    6. Sustainability                                                                12
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
    9. Partner Comments                                                              17
    10. Additional Information                                                       17
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Maps: 28592 (Hanoi); 28593 (Haiphong); 28594 (Quang Ninh)

Project ID: P004830                                                  Project Name: WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Team Leader: Thanh Cong Nguyen                                       TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 20, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                     L/C/TF Number: IF-N0260; TF-29548;
                                                                                                     TF-29270; TF-20966
   Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (91%); Sub-national government administration (9%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Municipal finance (P); Other social development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/03/1993                                     Effective: 10/06/1997                10/14/1997
     Appraisal: 03/24/1997                                         MTR: 02/23/2000                  03/13/2000
      Approval: 06/26/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Socialist Republic of Vietnam/Provincial Water Companies of Hanoi; Socialist
                                           Republic of Vietnam/Haiphong and Quang Ninh
                      Other Partners:      DANIDA, AUSAID, FINNISH MOFA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mr. Jeffrey Gutman                             Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Mr. Klaus Rohland                              Mr. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Director:                Mr. Keshav Varma                               Mr. J. Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:             Mr. Alan Coulthart                             Mr. Anjum Altaf
ICR Primary Author:             Mr. David Henley


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
     These were to: (a) improve the quality of water supply services in Hanoi, Haiphong, Quang
     Ninh and Danang through renovation of existing facilities in order to satisfy the demand of
     about 2.5 million people up to the year 2000; (b) ensure sustainability of the physical
     investments by developing the institutional capabilities of the Provincial Water Supply
     Companies (WSCs), facilitating their commercialization and upgrading their staff skills
     through training; and (c) assist in preparation of a future investment program to satisfy
     water demand after 2000.

     In Vietnam water supply is a provincial government responsibility. Each province has a
     public sector WSC. Hanoi, Haiphong and Danang are cities with provincial status. Quang
     Ninh is a province in which the project supported the two main cities, Halong and Cam Pha.
     For ease of reference Hanoi, Haiphong, Quang Ninh and Danang are referred to collectively
     as "the cities" throughout this ICR.

     The project objectives fully supported the Government's sector strategy for urban water
     supply which was based on analystical and advisory (AAA) work supported by the World
     Bank and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in 1990 and the Finnish
     Government in 1994. The main thrust of the strategy was to consolidate and expand access
     to basic water supply services to meet the demands of rapid urbanization, and to facilitate
     growth in foreign investment and tourism. The strategy had two stages: the focus of the
     first stage was on the rehabilitation of supply systems and some modest expansion to meet
     demand up to 2000 and on strengthening the WSCs to ensure that the investments were
     sustainable; and the second stage was to address demand and capacity expansion beyond
     2000. The objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
     for 1997 ­ 2001, which identified poor infrastructure as a key bottleneck to development,
     transition to a market economy as a prime objective, and the reform of state enterprises as
     an important goal. The objectives also remained relevant with respect to the subsequent
     CAS for 2002 - 2006, which has as its main objectives: the promotion of modern public
     administration, legal and governance systems; high growth through transition to a market
     economy; and an equitable, socially inclusive and sustainable pattern of growth.

     This was a very challenging and complex project because: (a) the Vietnamese economy was
     in the initial stages of a transition from central planning to market orientation; (b) the Bank
     had only resumed its relationship with Vietnam in 1993 and this was the first water supply
     sector project; (c) it was essentially four similar, but discrete, sub-projects in widely spread
     geographic locations, each implemented by a different agency in a separate local
     government; and (d) during the preparation stage, government decided to decentralize
     responsibility for implementation from the Ministry of Construction (MOC) to the provincial
     WSCs, although key approval authority - contract awards, review of project designs etc -
     remained with central government. (All contracts had to be approved by the Prime
     Minister).

     The Danang sub-project had to be dropped entirely as a result of mis-procurement (see 5.2



                                                  - 2 -

      below). No IDA funds were disbursed for this sub-project. The only expenditure made was
      on preparation and some institutional strengthening, which was financed by the Australian
      government.

3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.


3.3 Original Components:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) refers to project interventions in each city as "components" and
the separate activities, which cover the same themes in each city, as "sub-components". For the
purposes of this ICR, the interventions in each city are referred to as "sub-projects" and the
activities as "components". The latter approach was adopted for all subsequent urban, water and
sanitation projects in Vietnam.

Component 1: Renewal and upgrading of water supply facilities (82.3% of project cost): This
included: (a) raw water extraction; (b) water treatment (new investments and rehabilitation of
existing facilities); (c) primary, secondary and tertiary distribution networks including bulk water
meters; (d) new and replacement water connections including consumer water meters; and (e)
equipment, materials and vehicles for operation and maintenance.

Component 2: Institutional measures to ensure sustainability (3% of project cost): Measures
included: (a) upgrading accounts receivable systems; (b) improving customer management; (c)
preparation of guidelines for operation and maintenance (O&M) and related budgets; and (d) the
development of corporate plans.

Component 3: Support activities including construction management, training and various studies
(10.4% of project cost). Activities included: (a) construction management; (b) studies to assess
raw water quality and to identify actions to protect water quality; (c) identifying, quantifying,
reducing and monitoring, non revenue water (NRW); (d) periodic safety audits of Cao Van dam
in Quang Ninh; (e) staff training, and (f) studies for future investments beyond 2000.

Component 4: Compensating, resettling and rehabilitating people affected by the project (4.3% of
total original project cost): The project was expected to require the permanent acquisition of 44.5
ha of land and the relocation of 130 affected households.

Assessment of Design. The project design was conventional for the sector and included a mix of
activities shown to be effective for receptive agencies in similar Bank-supported projects. The
design was closely aligned to the project objectives, with by far the highest proportion of funds
(82.3%) allocated to physical investments. Appropriately, the design recognized that the WSCs
had very limited experience of implementing international contracts and attempted to ameliorate
this by including all construction in a single contract for each city and providing significant
construction management support by international consultants. Although Component 2
accounted for only 3% of the total project funds allocated, it had a disproportionately high impact
on the project outcome. At the time of preparation resettlement aspects were identified as a
separate component. However, as this has now been successfully mainstreamed in Vietnam into



                                                  - 3 -

overall project implementation, it is the practice now to incorporate it in the related investment
component.

Risks: The SAR identified the shortage of counterpart funds and complex donor coordination as
potential implementation risks. Regarding counterpart funds, financial projections indicated that
the provinces would have the resources available and commitments to do so were obtained at
negotiations. Donor coordination was considered manageable with substantial assistance from an
experienced national water sector specialist in the Bank's office in Hanoi. Neither the counterpart
funding, nor donor coordination proved to be a problem. Although surprisingly not specifically
addressed as an implementation risk, the SAR did recognize that problems could arise from the
fact that this was one of the first ODA financed projects implemented at the provincial level in a
changing sector environment. No mitigating measures, apart from patience, were proposed. In
reality, difficulties and delays did occur, and this was one of the reasons why the Danang
sub-project had to be cancelled. The potential risks perceived for the operational stage were:
inadequate maintenance of the rehabilitated facilities and insufficient incentives to attract and
retain qualified staff to improve financial and managerial performance. To mitigate the
maintenance risk the SAR proposed that detailed maintenance guidelines and related cost
estimating procedures should be prepared to ensure the WSCs were able to substantiate
expenditures to their local government owners. Regarding incentives for staff, improving the
companies' financial performance thereby making additional resources available for staff was
foreseen as the main solution. Neither of these has proved to be a problem.

With hindsight the assumption made on the local governments' willingness to raise tariffs to the
levels projected was overly optimistic. Assessments of consumers' ability to pay, both during
preparation and after project completion, indicated that this was not, and is not, a constraint.
Projected monthly household expenditure on water by the lowest quintile of the population was
calculated to be below what is regarded as an acceptable threshold of 4%. Current expenditures
are less, as household incomes have grown at a faster rate than tariffs. As borne out by
subsequent work undertaken by the Bank for preparation of the Urban Water Supply
Development Project (Cr. 4028-VN) in smaller provincial cities and district towns, where
household incomes are lower, people are generally willing to pay significantly more for a reliable
service than provincial governments have been willing to charge. A joint circular issued by the
Ministries of Finance and Construction in July 2005, setting much higher recommended ranges for
urban water tariffs, indicates that the Government of Vietnan (GOV) is now prepared to give
higher priority to this issue. The experience of this project and the task team's persistence in
addressing the tariff issue with both provincial and central governments is likely to have
contributed to the decision to take this positive measure that will improve the financial position
and therefore the sustainability of all WSCs in Vietnam.

3.4 Revised Components:
N.A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not conduct a
Quality at Entry review. As already noted in 3.1 above, the project design was fully consistent
with both GOV priorities and IDA's CAS. Designs and bidding documents had been prepared for


                                                  - 4 -

around 70% of the project at the time it was presented for Board approval. From the safeguard
perspective the project triggered the Bank's safeguard policies on environmental assessment,
involuntary resettlement, and safety of dams (linkage issue). It was classified as Category B. This
was a correct classification because: (a) the project improved the efficiency with which water
resources are used by reducing the volume of water wasted at the treatment plants that were
rehabilitated and significantly reducing leakage from the distribution systems; (b) Cao Van dam,
which was constructed by Quang Ninh province before the project started, was made safe when
the province implemented the recommendations (increasing the capacity of the spillway and
raising the dam height) of the dam safety expert hired through the project; (c) there were no
significant environmental impacts during construction, nor have there been any during operation
of the facilities; (d) the implementation agencies adopted measures to protect water sources from
pollution including the preparation of contingency plans to deal with the accidental spillage of
hazardous materials into rivers from which water is abstracted; and (e) land acquisition and
involuntary resettlement were limited and actual impacts turned out to be less than expected.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. The project enabled an additional
1,670,000 people in Hanoi, Haiphong and Quang Ninh to benefit from reliable treated piped water
supplies. In total around 2,775,400 residents in the three cities benefited from better quality
(higher level of treatment, increased pressure and 24 hour service) water supply services,
compared to a projected target of 2,065,000 (the original objective was to improve the service for
2,500,000 residents in four cities, including Danang). These improvements are likely to be
sustained because as a result of the project, the WSCs are much stronger financially and they have
better management, accounting, budgeting and operating and maintenance systems in place. The
project's objectives remain very relevant today, even more so in view of the Bank's increased
emphasis on basic infrastructure improvement as an essential driver of both poverty reduction and
growth.

It is worth pointing out that while poverty alleviation was not an explicit objective, the following
substantial reductions in poverty rates as measured by the biennial Vietnam Household Living
Standards Surveys were achieved over the period 1999 to 2004: Haiphong ­ 29% to 7%; Hanoi
­ 16% to 4%; and Quang Ninh ­ 35% to 6%. As access to water is closely linked to poverty and
the project achieved one hundred percent coverage in the urban districts it covered, it seems
reasonable to infer that the project contributed to the poverty alleviation achieved.

The seven key performance indicators (two relating to service improvement, three relating to
efficiency improvements and two relating to financial sustainability) for the project are recorded in
Annex 1. These are universal management indicators recorded by water supply utilities. They
were consistently measured throughout project implementation by each WSC. Providing the
information did not place an undue burden on the WSCs.

Objective (a) - Improve the quality of water supply services: The SAR identified this as the
major project objective and close to 90% of project financing (construction plus construction



                                                  - 5 -

management services) was allocated to it. Achievement is rated satisfactory. (It is highly
satisfactory for the three city sub-projects implemented, but the overall rating is reduced to
satisfactory because the Danang sub-project had to be cancelled.) Service improvement in the
three cities substantially exceeded the targets set at appraisal. The performance indicators for this
objective were increases in the number of consumer connections and in the volume of water
billed. The total number of household connections in the three cities at the end of the project was
555,082, an increase of 151% from 1996 levels. The number of new connections made was 74%
higher than planned (334,034 compared to a target of 192,143). The volume of water billed
increased by 112% compared to the 87% anticipated. One of the major successes of the project
was in making additional treated water available at low cost through significant reductions in Non
Revenue Water (NRW) (see objective (b) below).

Objective (b) - Ensure sustainability through institutional development and facilitating
commercialization and upgrading skills: The 3.4% of funds allocated for the components
related to this objective was used very effectively. Achievement is rated satisfactory. At start-up,
the WSCs were subsidized entities operating in a planned environment and were providing a
minimum level of social services with no performance indicators. With the project and the
performance measures instituted during implementation, the efficiency performance of the WSCs
improved substantially. The level of NRW (reflecting both the physical condition of the network
and management effectiveness) was better than halved from 64% to 31% (the actual range was
22% to 37%). This was much better than the 45% target agreed at appraisal. The average staffing
level per 1000 connections, which reflects both improved staff ability and management
effectiveness, was reduced significantly from 18 to 7. This was in line with appraisal expectations.
Days of accounts receivable, reflecting a more commercial approach, declined from an average of
57 to 24 days, a level of which most water utilities in industrialized countries would be proud. The
achievement was substantially better than the 44 days projected at appraisal. It is also worth
noting that these performance indicators are now being replicated across other WSCs.

Financial sustainability as measured by average tariff level and working ratio (total operating
expenses over net revenue) was less successful than projected. Specific target tariff levels and
working ratios were agreed for each year of project implementation. By the end of the project, on
average across the three cities, tariffs were 3775 VND/m3 (US$ 0.24/m3), which was 68% of the
target level. At closing, the working ratio was 59% compared to the target of 43%. However,
that notwithstanding, all three companies are able to fully cover their operating and maintenance
(O&M) costs and the loan repayments arising from the project (the proceeds of the loan were
on-lent at close to commercial terms to the WSCs in Vietnamese Dong at 6.5% per annum, with
five years grace and a 20 year term - the MOF absorbed the foreign exchange risk). It is pertinent
to note that both Hanoi and Haiphong WSCs were able to build up substantial financial reserves
by closing, enabling them to meet loan repayments. The respective Peoples' Committees also took
decisive actions in 2005 to raise tariffs when the loan repayments became due.

Objective (c) - Assist in the preparation of a future investment program to satisfy water
demand after 2000: In respect of this objective, which had less priority than the other two, the
achievement was unsatisfactory. A future investment program was prepared only for Haiphong.
This in itself was highly satisfactory. The investments identified were subsequently included in the



                                                 - 6 -

Bank-supported follow-up Urban Water Supply Development Project. Investment programs
were not prepared for Hanoi and Quang Ninh because the local governments placed greater
priority on using the limited grant funds available from the bilateral co-financiers for the
institutional development objective (although there were residual IDA funds, it is GOV policy not
to use loans (credits) for project preparation). It is also relevant to note that GOV policy on the
allocation of scarce concessional loan funds changed during the course of the project, with greater
emphasis being placed on smaller cities and towns where water supply coverage is much lower.
This change in policy was fully supported by the Bank and other donors active in the sector
(Asian Development Bank (ADB), Finland, and Australia). To meet the expanding demand for
water supplies in the larger cities, Government has started mobilizing domestic savings and
engaging with the private sector e.g., the Thu Duc Build-Own-Operate (BOO) project in Ho Chi
Minh City and the Song Da BOO Project in Hanoi.

Environmental and Social Objectives: The project met its safeguard objectives satisfactorily.
There were no significant environmental issues during construction, and compliance with the
relevant terms of the contracts is judged to be good. Regarding operation, sludge treatment
facilities were unfortunately not included in the treatment plant rehabilitation in Quang Ninh.
Given the remote location of the plant, this is not a serious problem. However, the WSC plans to
construct the facilities using its own resources. Resettlement took place in accordance with the
agreed resettlement policy framework and resettlement action plans, as determined by supervision
missions. The resettlement of people affected by the Cao Van dam, which was not funded through
the project, but was linked to it, was also judged to have been satisfactorily carried out following
the implementation of some additional rehabilitation measures requested by the Bank. Following
inspections by an international dam safety expert of the Cao Van dam, which was required as a
project condition, the potential risk of overtopping, which could have lead to catastrophic failure,
was identified as a significant risk. As a result the provincial government financed remedial
measures to bring the dam up to international design standards.

Public Sector Management Objectives: Achievement is rated substantial, because as a result
of the project, the participating WSCs have been transformed from highly subsidized extensions of
local government departments to commercially oriented business enterprises delivering an efficient
service for which consumers now pay the full cost (including operations, maintenance and debt
repayment). They retain the revenue they collect and enjoy the autonomy of working within
annual corporate plans agreed with their local government owners. The most telling impact has
been the fact that most of the other 64 provincial WSCs in Vietnam have replicated many of these
commercial improvements and also technical and managerial improvements introduced by the
project. Haiphong WSC in particular has served as a role model, not only for WSCs in Vietnam,
but also for companies from Laos. Specific improvements that have been replicated include:
decentralized management; improved customer orientation, e.g., publication of service standards,
setting up complaint mechanisms, allowing connection fees to be paid by installments; the
establishment of partnerships with district and ward administrations; and the adoption of incentive
systems within the company to promote efficiency.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Water Supply Services: Outputs under this component are satisfactory for
Hanoi, Haiphong and Quang Ninh. Overall, the outputs were completed as planned (see Annex 1


                                                   - 7 -

for details). In Hanoi, additional treatment units had to be constructed at the Nam Du Water
Treatment Plant to remove the higher than expected levels of ammonia found in the ground water
source. This cost an additional US$2.4 million and was funded by removing service lines and
house connections from the contract. (These were funded directly by the WSC). The four
replacement wells in the Red River well field were also implemented directly by Hanoi WSC
because of delays in procuring the main supply and installation contract. In Haiphong the planned
works were implemented and an additional 24km of secondary distribution pipes were funded
from cost savings. Quang Ninh was implemented as planned. The technical designs were
appropriate for the conditions and level of expertise of the WSCs and all of the works were
carried out to a satisfactory standard. They will serve the companies well for several decades.

Component 2 - Institutional Measures to Ensure Sustainability: Outputs for this component
are rated highly satisfactory for the three sub-projects implemented. Computerised billing and
collection systems and customer management systems were installed. As already noted this
resulted in an average period of accounts receivable of only 29 days. Collection levels exceed
95%. The customer network management systems in Haiphong and Hanoi, the largest companies,
are based on geographic information systems (GIS) which allow the consumption details of
individual consumers to be called up and quickly analysed on desktop computers. This helps
identify abnormal consumption patterns which may indicate leakage or meter tampering and also
greatly facilitates future planning. Detailed operation and maintenance manuals with costing
procedures for preparing annual budgets were produced. The technical assistance inputs included
extensive training, including study tours for key staff to similar sized utilities in South East Asia
and Europe. Each company was also assisted to prepare corporate plans, which are the basis of
the annual performance agreements signed with the city authorities. The plans, which were
reviewed by the Bank team, are comprehensive and set out roadmaps for the companies that are
comprehensive and practical. All of these systems and procedures are being successfully utilized
by the three WSCs.

Component 3 ­ Support Activities Including Construction Management, Various Studies
and Training: Outputs for this component are rated satisfactory. The consultants responsible
for construction management in each of the three cities performed to a very high standard.
Construction quality was satisfactory, the contracts were enforced fairly, and the works in
Haiphong and Hanoi were completed within budget. In Quang Ninh they were within 10% of the
original contract value. The studies on raw water quality and source protection in Haiphong have
been very useful. As a result, protection zones were established around the river intakes to
minimize the risk of contamination, and contingency plans were developed to deal with accidental
spillages of hazardous materials. In Hanoi, which so far has relied exclusively on groundwater, a
computerized model of water quality in the aquifer was developed and ground levels were
monitored to detect settlement ­ a sign of over-exploitation of the acquifer. Quang Ninh took
measures to reduce possible pollution by preventing illegal mining in the Cao Van reservoir
catchment and by promoting re-afforestation. As already noted the NRW reduction measures
introduced through the project were highly successful, and this activity is now fully integrated into
the operations of the WSCs. The periodic safety audits of Cao Van Dam eventually led to
modifications being carried out to make the dam safe. This included raising the crest level and
widening the spillway to prevent the risk of water over-topping the dam, which would have led to



                                                 - 8 -

catastrophic failure. Fortunately no abnormal rainfall events occurred during the period it took for
these measures to be implemented. All of the activities above and in Component 2 were supported
by training activities. Less effort was necessary in Hanoi and Haiphong where the companies had
already benefited from institutional development support from the Finnish government. In Quang
Ninh, the smallest and least developed of the companies, training, which was funded by DANIDA,
was the major focus of this component. An excellent training center with facilities and material to
cover all staff was established. As previously noted only Haiphong carried out studies for future
investment.

Component 4: Resettlement and Rehabilitation. This component is rated satisfactory. The
table below indicates actual resettlement and rehabilitation measures compared with projections.
Actual land acquisition was better than halved due mainly to the cancellation of the Danang
sub-project, and no relocation was required. More households were partially affected than
anticipated; however, this indicates the care taken to ensure that people were compensated for
any and all inconvenience during construction, and is not an indicator of improper planning or
poor design.

City           Projected Land Actual Land      Projected     Actual       Projected      Actual
                 Acquisition    Acquisition    Number of   Number of    Relocation of Relocation of
                      (ha)          (ha)       Affected      Affected    Households    Households
                                               Households  Households
Hanoi                  15          14.10        1,362         1,240          0               0
Haiphong               2            0.21          44           83            0               0
Quang Ninh             8            8.00         212          3,480         117              0
Danang                 20           0.00         154            0            13              0
Total                  45          22.31        1,772         4,803         130              0


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return calculated at appraisal was 16.7% (19.2% for Hanoi, 24.4% for
Haiphong, 12% for Quang Ninh and 11.3% for Danang). Benefits were based on coping costs
that consumers would avoid because of the project; research had indicated that users incur costs
estimated at VND 45,000 per month to provide storage, operate pumps, boil water, etc. The
project assumed that consumer behavior would not change immediately after service was
improved, so that costs avoided would increase over three years from VND 33,000. For the
current evaluation, these monthly costs have been increased, most likely conservatively, from
VND 45,000 to VND 60,000 to keep them constant in US dollar terms. Costs have been based on
actual project disbursements (including WSC costs) and projected operating costs, with estimated
taxes excluded. The recalculated ERR for the project is 13.9% (17.9% for Hanoi, 12.2% for
Haiphong and 2.1% for Quang Ninh). The reduction since appraisal is due partly to the two-year
delay in project completion, but more so to the more-than-proportional increase in projected
operating costs and other WSC costs that have been incorporated into the evaluation. The ERR
for Quang Ninh is low because it has the most expensive water source (constructed prior to the
project) and the lowest number of consumers.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                 - 9 -

The financial rate of return (FIRR) calculated at appraisal was 15.7% (27.5% for Hanoi, 12.8%
for Haiphong, 7.7% for Quang Ninh, and 7.8% for Danang), based on estimated project costs and
incremental operating costs and revenues. Recalculation, in real terms, now gives a figure of
13.2% (15% for Hanoi, 15% for Haiphong, and 5% for Quang Ninh). These figures are directly
related to tariff levels. Increases of more than 50% in Hanoi and 15% in Quang Ninh over
estimated 2005 tariffs would be required to yield IRR figures as expected at appraisal; tariff
increases to levels expected at appraisal would yield 27.7%, 19.4% and 13.4% IRR respectively.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated substantial for reasons explained in paragraph 4.1,
Objective (b) above.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Lower than expected raw water quality in Hanoi: Implementation of the Hanoi sub-project was
delayed by around nine months because the quality of groundwater supplying the new Nam Du
water treatment plant was found to have a higher than permissible ammonia content. Earlier tests
carried out at the design stage had indicated the water quality was satisfactory. The design was
modified to include an additional treatment stage to remove the ammonia.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Mis-procurement in Danang: As previously recorded, the Danang sub-project had to be cancelled
because of mis-procurement of a proposed $32 million supply and installation contract
(component 1). The Danang sub-project accounted for 30% by value of the entire project. After
initially recommending that the contract be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder and
receiving the Bank's no objection, members of the Danang People's Committee changed their
mind and proposed award to the second lowest evaluated responsive bidder. The reason given
was that they considered the lowest bidder did not have appropriate experience, despite the fact
that all bidders had been pre-qualified. Although they were made aware of the consequences of
this course of action and every effort was made by the Country Director and Bank team to avoid
cancellation, the Danang authorities proceeded to issue a letter of award. At that point the Bank
declared mis-procurement and cancelled the funds allocated. With the exception of part of
component 2 that had been carried out prior to the mis-procurement, the other components, all of
which were directly linked to component 1, were subsequently cancelled. This was an unfortunate
outcome, but it served to emphasize to GOV and other local governments the importance of
following competitive procurement procedures that are economic, efficient and transparent.
There have been no subsequent declarations of mis-procurement on ICB contracts in the Vietnam
portfolio since.

Protracted Procurement Processing: This had a substantial impact on the overall project.
Procurement delays were, and unfortunately to a large extent remain, a systemic issue in Vietnam.
There are two main reasons: decentralized responsibility for implementation, without parallel
decentralisation of the related approval authority; and differences in the procurement procedures
of Government and the Bank (the PMUs were required to try and meet the requirements of both).
Each step of the procurement process, starting with design reviews, has to undergo multiple,


                                                     - 10 -

often-times redundant, reviews within the local Government, and subsequently the central
Government, before being eventually submitted to the Prime Minister for approval. For the three
major supply and installation contracts it took between 19 and 21 months from the issue of bid
documents before contracts were signed. The fact that the lowest evaluated responsive bids were
higher than the approved cost estimates was a complicating factor. This contributed to the need to
extend the credit closing date by two years.

Tariff Increases: As has been noted in section 4.1 above, tariff levels, which are under the control
of local governments, were not increased to the levels anticipated at appraisal. However, it is
encouraging to note that significant tariff increases were approved in 2005 when loan repayments
for the project became due, indicating that local governments will act to enable the WSCs to meet
their financial obligations and to operate in a sustainable manner. It also demonstrates central
government's fiscal discipline in holding provinces accountable for their debts. Given the increases
approved in 2005, cost recovery is considered adequate to ensure the long term sustainability of
the benefits arising from the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project Management: Following the initial procurement delays, implementation proceeded
satisfactorily, with difficulties being resolved expediently. The PMUs, with solid support from
their construction management consultants, were effective and proactive and contracts were
completed essentially within their contractual completion times (an extension was required in
Hanoi largely because of the need for the additional ammonia treatment units).

Effective Leadership: The Haiphong sub-project was the most successful ­ the supply and
installation contract was completed within budget and within the construction period, and
institutional performance targets significantly exceeded expectations. This was largely due to the
inspired leadership of the company director, who through the application of carefully planned
technical improvements and decisive institutional reforms was able to gain the full trust and
support of the political leadership of the city, his staff and, most importantly, the residents (refer
to 4.1 above for details).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The actual cost of the Hanoi, Haiphong and Quang Ninh sub-projects was $88.85 million, which
was 89% of the appraisal estimate of $99.29 million (total estimate including Danang was
$142.64 million). Final contract costs in US dollar terms were around 5% below the appraisal
estimates. This was mainly due to exchange rate gains.

Financing was provided by the Governments of Denmark, Finland and Australia as well as IDA
and the WSC, as detailed in Annex 2. Of the original IDA Credit of SDR 71.3 million, SDR 44.6
million were disbursed, SDR 24.45 million were cancelled because of the mis-procurement in
Danang, and an unused balance of SDR2.25 million was cancelled on completion of the project,
or 5% of the value of the IDA funding for the three participating cities.

The planned project implementation period was five years, but a two-year extension was required
mainly because of the initial procurement delays described above in para 5.2 and the need to add
ammonia removal facilities in Hanoi.



                                                    - 11 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


Sustainability for the three WSCs is rated highly likely. This is based on: (a) their solid financial
performance; (b) the recent introduction of positive sector policy reforms; (c) their strengthened
institutional capacity; (d) improved operation and maintenance procedures; and (e) the
introduction of measures to protect raw water quality and, in the case of Quang Ninh, to ensure
the reliability of the water source. Financially, each PWC generates sufficient revenue to cover its
cash requirements for operation, maintenance and the debt obligations arising from this project. In
terms of policy reform, the circular jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of
Construction in July 2005 (see 3.4 above) provides an important political signal from central
government to the provincial governments that water tariffs should be increased. This would
further strengthen their finances and permit more rapid expansion of coverage and service levels.
An Urban Water Supply Decree scheduled to be introduced by mid 2006 will provide a much
more favorable enabling environment for the mobilization of private capital and for private sector
participation in the sector. Even ahead of this legislation, large public/private projects were
initiated in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City in 2005. The achievements of the institutional
strengthening measures have already been described in 4.1 and 4.2. The computerized billing and
collection and customer management systems introduced are a key factor in the WSCs' strong
financial performance. The significant NRW reductions have increased cost effectiveness and the
fact that this function is now firmly integrated into normal operations means that the improvement
will be sustained. The improvements in operation and maintenance and the procedures
introduced to allow the more systematic preparation of O&M budgets also promote sustainability.
The measures introduced to protect and monitor the quality of raw water supplies are important
in ensuring the continuity of supplies both in the short term (contingency plans to protect against
the accidental spillage of hazardous materials) and in the longer terms (establishing protected
areas around water intakes and in the catchment areas). The safety measures carried out on Cao
Van Dam in Quang Ninh to bring it up to international design standards (the capacity to handle a
1 in 10,000 year rainfall event) are also clearly important in terms of increasing the reliability of
the water source, as well as protecting the lives of people living downstream of the dam.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Because this project was implemented by the end-users, the WSCs, no transition arrangements
were necessary. Company management teams, treatment plant operators and maintenance groups
were all involved in project implementation.

The WSCs continue to monitor their performance using most of the indicators adopted by the
project, which are standard indicators for the sector. At the national level these are collected and
analyzed by the Vietnam Water Supply Association in an annual benchmarking survey that was
initiated with IDA support in 2002.

Since this project was approved in 1997, IDA has supported the following water and sanitation
projects in Vietnam: Three Cities Sanitation (Cr. 3211, FY99); Ho Chi Minh City Environmental



                                                  - 12 -

Sanitation (Cr. 3475, FY01); Urban Water Supply Development (Cr. 4028, FY05). In addition,
the following projects are in the lending pipeline: Coastal Cities Environmental Sanitation
(FY07), Danang Priority Infrastructure (FY07), and a further water supply project (FY08). The
Three Cities Sanitation Project was complementary to this project (initially a combined water and
sanitation project was planned, but it was separated to avoid undue complexity) and provided
support to Danang, Haiphong, and Quang Ninh. Despite the fact that the Danang sub-project of
this project had to be cancelled, the sanitation sub-project has been implemented very effectively.
This contributed to the decision to agree to a request to provide additional support to Danang
through the planned Priority Infrastructure Project. It is envisaged that this will provide technical
assistance to the Danang Water Supply Company.

As mentioned in Section 4.1, GOV's policy on the use of concessional loan funds changed during
the course of the project. Consequently the follow-up Urban Water Supply Development Project
focused primarily on smaller district cities and towns where water supply coverage is much lower.
It does, however, include a performance-based component that enables more efficient companies,
as determined from the national benchmarking survey, to access funds. Haiphong WCS is taking
advantage of this to expand coverage into a new peri-urban district and the Ho Chi Minh City
WSC is planning an intervention to reduce NRW through a performance-related contract. Given
the change in focus of IDA's support, a future impact evaluation of this project by IEG is not seen
as a high priority.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in lending is rated satisfactory. The team responsible for identification and
preparation was involved in the background AAA work for the sector. This sector work resulted
in the project being well grounded in both GOV's sector strategy and IDA's CAS. The project's
design took account of the fact that the WSCs were first-time IDA borrowers with limited
technical capacity and limited exposure to international project management practices. With
hindsight it would have been better if the more familiar standard bidding document for works had
been adopted for procurement of the civil works (see section 8 below), but the idea of minimizing
the numbers of contracts was sound.      IDA's performance in appraisal was also satisfactory. A
well-rounded team of 10 experts representing economics, finance, engineering, safeguards, and
fiduciary aspects was fielded. See comments on the risk analysis and key assumptions in section
3.3 and comments on satisfactory quality at entry in section 3.5 for supporting details.


7.2 Supervision:
Performance is rated highly satisfactory. The same team supervised the project from mid-1998
to completion. From 2001 it was supervised entirely, including safeguards aspects, from the
country office. The team was initially led by an international staff member, and from 2003
onward, by a national senior operations officer, who had participated in the task team throughout
the life of the project. Both were civil engineers with extensive water sector experience. As a
result of this decentralization, the IDA team was able to support the implementing agencies
essentially on demand. Mission reporting was regular with richly detailed back-to-office reports
with sound recommendations produced for each subproject in both English and Vietnamese.


                                                 - 13 -

Project Status Reports were prepared regularly and reporting was realistic and included up to date
information on key performance indicators. Implementation performance was downgraded to
unsatisfactory on two occasions. Fortunately, as a result of coherent action plans agreed with the
implementing agencies and the fact that the team was able to follow up by phone and short visits,
remedial measures were quickly carried out. Regarding the unfortunate cancellation of the
Danang sub-project, the Bank team and Country Director made every effort to avoid it.
Unfortunately they were unable in this case to persuade the city authorities to comply with the
Bank's procurement guidelines and consequently there was no alternative but to declare
misprocurement.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory. The project benefited from a high level of
continuity within the IDA team throughout preparation and supervision. Multi-sector teams
covering engineering, finance, fiduciary aspects, environmental monitoring, and social safeguards
monitoring were fielded at all stages of the project and these were complemented by professional
staff from the bilateral donors. The fact that most of the Bank team was based in Vietnam (the
entire team from 2001) meant that it was possible to carry out supervision continuously, on an
"as-needed" basis rather than intermittently. It was also important, given the limited English
language capability of the implementing agencies, that most of the team was Vietnamese. The
work carried out on this project was the foundation of the Bank's successful long-term
engagement in Vietnam's water sector, which has delivered benefits well beyond the objectives of
this initial intervention. (This is described in more detail in section 8.) IDA's team was very
effective in coordinating support from the three bilateral co-financiers, including making visits to
their headquarters to assist resolve important issues that arose during implementation. The team
also arranged information exchange workshops in conjunction with some supervision missions to
enable the companies to learn from one another.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's preparation of the project is rated satisfactory. The project was based on an
appropriate and effective sector strategy. MPI were able to mobilize significant bilateral support
from Australia, Finland and Denmark to support the WSCs in project preparation. PHRD grant
funds were also mobilized to develop billing and collection systems for Hanoi WSC. By the time
the project was presented to the Board detailed designs and bidding documents were available for
around 70% of the works.

Note on interpretation of "borrower". In Vietnam, the official borrower is the State Bank of
Vietnam (SBV). At the central level, the Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI) is the Bank's
counterpart for project preparation and implementation. MPI is responsible for appraising ODA
projects submitted by provinces and sector ministries and also for overseeing implementation. In
the case of this project, the WSCs were the ultimate "borrowers" and also the implementing
agencies.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation was largely the responsibility of the WSCs (see below). It has already been
pointed out that the two-year extension was required largely because of long procurement delays.



                                                  - 14 -

These were a result of GOV procedures which require multiple, often redundant, reviews of
designs and contract awards at local and central levels, prior to submission to the Prime Minister
for approval. Because of this and the Danang misprocurement, Government implementation
performance is rated marginally satisfactory. MPI, who acted on behalf of central government
to oversee implementation, was effective, within the budgetary constraints faced, in coordinating
project supervision. MPI chaired overall wrap-up meetings for all supervision missions and
provided effective guidance to the implementing agencies. However, its role could have been
more effective if funds had been available to enable its staff to fully participate in the supervision
missions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation by the WSCs was satisfactory. As noted in section 4, they were effective and
proactive, and consultant inputs were used effectively. Once the contracts were awarded,
implementation was generally carried out within budget and on time (the time overrun in Hanoi
was largely because additional treatment units had to be added for ammonia removal).
Counterpart funds were allocated on time and resettlement and land acquisition was carried out in
accordance with the approved resettlement action plans. Haiphong in particular performed very
well, and was able to use cost savings within the contract to extend supply coverage.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Value of Long-term Engagement: The influence of IDA's support of this project extended
well beyond the specific benefits arising from the project itself, substantial though they were.
IDA's involvement in the sector and particularly the major role played by its experienced national
staff, allowed the establishment of close relationships with key policy-makers in the Ministries of
Planning and Investment, Construction and Finance and also with senior professionals in the
Vietnamese water supply sector. These relationships, together with the very positive
demonstration effects of the institutional development aspects of the project, gradually convinced
policy-makers of the need to accelerate the policy reforms aimed at moving urban water supply to
a more commercial basis that is fully responsive to consumer needs and demands. An example of
this influence is the benchmarking exercise of all 68 provincial WSCs, carried out jointly in 2001
by the Bank and the Vietnam Water and Sanitation Association, as part of preparation of IDA's
second water supply project, the Urban Water Supply Development Project. This exercise
revealed the strengths and weaknesses of the sector and resulted in positive exchanges of
knowledge amongst the companies ­ as already mentioned many companies have, or are in the
process of, replicating the initiatives and innovations introduced through the project by Haiphong
WSC. A further important example demonstrating the depth of trust established with GOV was
the Ministry of Construction's request to the Bank in mid 2005 for assistance with drafting
Vietnam's first Urban Water Supply Decree. The Bank mobilized a private sector specialist and
an institutional specialist and was arranged for the drafting team to visit regulators and
policy-makers in Europe. The decree will promote significant improvements in the water supply
sector by creating a very positive enabling environment for the mobilization of domestic savings
and private sector participation. As previously noted, two major private sector schemes are


                                                 - 15 -

already under way in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.

Appropriate Measures for Financial Sustainability: The financial analysis of the project was
based on the accounting concept of depreciation of historic assets, which makes somewhat
arbitrary assumptions about assets that are difficult to value. The working ratio (total operating
costs over net revenues) was adopted as the main indicator of financial sustainability. During
negotiations, local governments gave up-front commitments to raise tariffs annually to specific
levels determined at appraisal. The WSCs did not meet these targets, but they did raise tariffs
sufficiently to cover cash operating costs and debt service. This raises the question of whether the
Bank's expectations were realistic. In the circumstances pertaining, it would have been more
appropriate to adopt cash-based accounting where revenues are tailored to cover debt. As noted
above, the local governments did raise tariffs to adequate levels to enable the WSCs to meet their
repayment obligations. Currently the three participating WSCs are able to meet their operating,
maintenance and debt repayments within cash operating costs and maintenance is adequate.
Future replacement costs are not included in cash operating costs, but can reasonably be covered
by future borrowing, as required, and accounted for accordingly. This is a more acceptable
arrangement than generating in advance large cash surpluses, which public sector agencies often
have difficulty retaining.

The Urban Water Supply Development Project, the second IDA-supported water supply project
in Vietnam, adopts a demand responsive approach. Potential consumers are informed in advance
of the likely tariff level and monthly bill they would have to pay for a new water supply.
Sub-projects proceed only if over 60% of households give a written commitment to connect to
the system and the local government approves the tariff level required. This seems to have good
prospects of success in smaller cities and towns, where existing coverage is limited. It would,
however, be more difficult to adopt in larger cities where coverage is already relatively high and
consumers have become used to subsidized prices. In this case a more incremental approach will
have to be adopted.

Appropriate Bidding Documents: For very good reasons, the project design minimized
procurement by including all of the works in each sub-project in a single contract. However, this
attempted simplification created problems because the Bank's standard bidding document for
Supply and Installation of Plants and Equipment was adopted, instead of the simpler Works
document, with which the PMUs, Government departments responsible for approval and the
contractors were more familiar. While the Supply and Installation document was appropriate for
the treatment plants, which represented around 18% by value of the total civil works, it was not
designed for the more straightforward pipe-laying works which are normally contracted and paid
for on a re-measured basis. This created confusion and difficulty for the borrowers, the
supervising engineers and the contractors. It would have been better to have adopted either: (a) a
single contract using the Works document for each sub-project; or (b) two contracts, Supply and
Installation for the water treatment plans and Works for the transmission and distribution
networks. Subsequent urban projects in Vietnam have adopted these methods.

Need to Streamline Government Approval Procedures: The systemic issue of multi-level,
often redundant reviews of all stages of project processing (designs, cost estimates, procurement



                                                 - 16 -

plans, bidding documents, evaluation of bids, and approval of contract award) remains a problem
for the portfolio in Vietnam. It particularly affects projects where implementation is decentralized
to local governments ­ an increasing proportion of the portfolio. There is some evidence that a
new Construction Law enacted in July 2004, which delegates greater authority to provincial
governments for projects up to $6.1 million for the larger cities, will improve the situation, by
eliminating one layer of review. However, projects approved prior to this law, so far, still have to
follow the previous procedures. High level engagement is needed to find a way to streamline
procedures and speed up implementation.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The implementing agencies acknowledged the difficulties they faced in obtaining the various
approvals required from higher levels of government in accordance with mandatory procedures.
They also stated that they were unfamiliar and uncomfortable with the "supply and install"
approach adopted for the civil works. They felt that this contributed to the implementation delays
and imposed risks on them that they did not feel they could adequately manage.


(b) Cofinanciers:

The cofinanciers were represented by staff assigned to their respective embassies. Because these
staff rotate every three years it has not been possible to obtain comments from them. However, it
is pertinent to note that all three cofinanciers continue to support the water supply sector.
AusAID provides support in the Mekong Delta to district towns and also for rural water supply
and sanitation; Danida continues to focus on rural water supply and sanitation; and the Finnish
Government commenced a new Water and Sanitation Support Progam in the Northern Provinces
in 2004.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
HANOI - Physical parameters:               (a) 83,700; (b) 230,000             (a) 98,343; (b) 322,632
(a) water billed 1000m3/year;
(b) number of connections

HANOI - Management of operating agency:    46%                                 37%
non-revenue water (%)

HANOI - Financial parameters:              (a) 4,796; (b) 38%                  (a) 2,950; (b) 52%
(a) average tariff dong/m3
(b) working ratio



HAIPHONG - Physical parameters: (a)        (a) 22,820; (b) 129718              (a) 34,700; (b) 155,000
water billed 1000m3/year; (b) number of
connections

HAIPHONG - Management of operating         50%                                 22%
agency: non-revenue water (%)

HAIPHONG - Financial parameters: (a)       (a) 4591; (b) 42%                   (a) 3,460; (b) 61%
average tariff dong/m3; (b) working ratio



QUANG NINH - Physical parameters: (a)      (a) 11,264; (b) 53,473              (a) 15,358; (b) 77,450
water billed 1000 m3/year; (b) number of
connections

QUANG NINH - Management of operating       40%                                 33.5%
agency: non-revenue water (%)

QUANG NINH - Financial parameters: (a)     (a) 7232; (b) 49%                   (a) 4,915; (b) 65%
average tariff dong/m3; (b) working ratio

Data projected in last PSR is from June 2004.

Hanoi


                     Element                                  As appraised                     As implemented
 Cao Dinh well field and treatment                New 30,000 m3/day                New 30,000 m3/day
 plant
 Nam Du well field and treatment                  New 30,000 m3/day without        New 30,000 m3/day including
 plant                                            ammonia removal                  ammonia removal facility
Existing Red River well field                    Four replacement wells            --
Transmission mains                               31 km 200 to 1000 mm              31 km 200 to 1000 mm
Distribution system pipelines                    80 km 100 to 250 mm               89 km 100 to 250 mm
Tertiary distribution                            250 km <100 mm                    338 km <100 mm
Service connections with meters                  60,000                            53,602 (additional
                                                                                   connections were funded by
                                                                                   the WSC separately)
 Large system meters                              30 of 400 to 600 mm              25




                                                              - 18 -

Haiphong

                 Element                              As appraised                    As implemented
 Raw water pipeline from Quan Vinh 4 km 1000mm                            4 km 1000mm
 Reconstruction and expansion of An New capacity 100,000                  New capacity 100,000 m3/day
 Duong treatment plant                   m3/day
 Primary distribution pipeline           27 km 300 to 600 mm plus        27 km 300 to 600 mm plus
                                         reservoir and booster pumping reservoir and booster
                                         station                         pumping station
 Improved secondary distribution         32 km 100 to 250 mm             56 km 100 to 250 mm
 Improved tertiary distribution          360 km <100mm                   367 km<100mm
 Service connections                     40,000                          42,560
 Large system meters                     30                              29
 Provision of equipment and vehicles Included                            Included


Quang Ninh

                Element                              As appraised                     As implemented
 Rehabilitation of deep wells           10 no.                            9 no.
 Rehabilitation of treatment plants     80,000 m3/day                     80,000 m3/day
 and pumping stations
 Reservoirs                            6 rehabilitated, 3 new            10 rehabilitated, 2 new
 Transmission and distribution mains 78 km 200 to 800 mm                  49 km 200 to 900 mm new
                                       rehabilitated                     82 km 100 to 900 mm
                                       64 km 200 to 400 mm new           rehabilitated
 Tertiary network                      113 km 50 to 90 mm                161 km <160 mm
 Household connections                 12,000 rehabilitated               12,928 rehabilitated
                                       20,000 new                         30,616 new
                                                                         246km 40 to 50mm
                                                                         pipelines
 Provision of equipment and vehicles Included                            Included




Output Indicators:
                                                                1
           Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  None indicated in PSR              Refer section 4.2.1 of report




1End of project




                                                    - 19 -

PWC Performance Indicators

                                                  Hanoi                  Haiphong
                                                    SAR            Base    SAR
                                       Base Year Projected Actual  Year  Projected Actual
       Year ended December 31            1996      2004    2005    1996    2004     2005

Indicators of service improvement
No. of connections                     135,010   230,000  322,632  71,382 129,718  155,000
Water billed (1000m3/yr)                40,800     83,700  98,343  15,246 22,820   34,700

Indicators of efficiency improvements
Non-revenue water                        66%        46%    37%     67%     50%      22%
Staff/1000 connections                    12         6      5.4     9        5       5
Days accounts receivable                  46        42      20      76      42       31

Indicators of financial sustainability
Average tariff (VND/m3)                  1575      4796    2950    1321    4591     3460
Working Ratio                            93%        38%    52%     85%     42%      61%




                                               Quang Ninh                 Total
                                                    SAR            Base    SAR
                                       Base Year Projected Actual  Year  Projected Actual
       Year ended December 31            1996      2004    2005    1996    2004     2005

Indicators of service improvement
No. of connections                      14,656     53,473  77,450 221,048 413,191  555,082
Water billed (1000m3/yr)                  6,749    11,264  15,358  62,795 117,784  148,041

Indicators of efficiency improvements
Non-revenue water                        58%        40%    33.5%   64%     45%      31%
Staff/1000 connections                    33        10      10      18       7       7
Days accounts receivable                  49        49      22      57      44       24

Indicators of financial sustainability
Average tariff (VND/m3)                  2517      7232    4915    1804    5540     3775
Working Ratio                            75%        49%    65%     84%     43%      59%




                                              - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


Component             Appraisal Estimate    Latest Estimate  % of appraisal

Hanoi
Physical                          33.57                34.58        103%
Institutional                       1.64               1.50           91%

Haiphong
Physical                          20.22                21.57        107%
Institutional                       1.60               2.87         179%

Quang Ninh
Physical                          23.96                25.46        106%
Institutional                       1.30               1.54         118%

Danang
Physical                          34.42                0.00            0%
Institutional                       1.10               1.33         121%

Total baseline costs             117.81                88.85          75%
Physical contingency                5.89               0.00            0%
Price contingency                 18.94                0.00            0%

Total Project costs              142.64                88.85          62%

Project costs after
Danang cancellation               99.29                88.85          89%



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                             Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category         ICB             NCB               2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                             Other
1. Works                        111.33           0.00         0.00           3.06        114.39
                                (91.71)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (91.71)
2. Goods                         2.09            0.00         0.89           0.00         2.98
                                (2.09)           (0.00)      (0.58)          (0.00)      (2.67)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00         9.23           9.90         19.13
                                (0.00)           (0.00)      (9.23)          (0.00)      (9.23)
4. Land acquisition              0.00            0.00         0.00           6.15         6.15
                                (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                        113.42           0.00        10.12           19.11       142.65
                                (93.80)          (0.00)      (9.81)          (0.00)     (103.61)




                                              - 21 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 69.75              0.00              0.00             2.46             72.21
                                          (54.31)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (54.31)
  2. Goods                                 0.13               0.00              1.82             0.00              1.95
                                          (0.13)             (0.00)            (1.45)            (0.00)           (1.58)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              4.48             7.68             12.16
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.37)            (0.00)           (4.37)
  4. Land acquisition                      0.00               0.00              0.00             1.20              1.20
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                69.88              0.00              6.30             11.34            87.52
                                          (54.44)            (0.00)            (5.82)            (0.00)           (60.26)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
HANOI
Physical                      32.51         7.81         0.00       29.06         5.52       0.00       89.4      70.7      0.0
Institutional                  0.00         0.00         1.96        0.00         0.00       1.50        0.0      0.0      76.5
HAIPHONG
Physical                      19.66         4.95         0.00       18.66         2.91       0.00       94.9      58.8      0.0
Institutional                  0.00         0.00         1.92        0.00         0.00       2.87        0.0      0.0     149.5
QUANG NINH
Physical                      12.62         5.02        11.31       12.54         3.78       9.14       99.4      75.3     80.8
Institutional                  0.00         0.00         1.54        0.00         0.00       1.54        0.0      0.0     100.0
DANANG
Physical                      33.82         8.20         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Institutional                  0.00         0.00         1.33        0.00         0.00       1.33        0.0      0.0     100.0
Total excl. Danang            64.79        17.78        16.73       60.26         12.21     15.05       93.0      68.7     90.0
Total incl. Danang            98.61        25.98        18.06       60.26         12.21     16.38       61.1      47.0     90.7




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The following three tables summarize each WSC's investment and operating costs from 1999 and
projections through to the year 2019 for the purpose of calculating financial and economic rates
of return. No further investment nor improvement in performance has been included beyond
those judged likely for 2005, though each WSC has plausible plans to continue improving. Small
investments in 1997 and 1998 have been included in calculations but are not shown. Financial
IRR based on the "Net cash flow" line and ERR on the "Net benefits" line are indicated at bottom
of each table. A summation for the three cities together yields an IRR of 13.2% and ERR of
13.9%.


            HANOI
                                    1999    2000    2001    2002     2003    2004   2005  2006 to  2019
                                                                                           2018
        Investment Costs (VND
                 million)
                    IDA            41752    89513   47171   50113   63063   58255  75674    0     -148939
                  Utility          31189    29802   47859   81536   87912   129350   0      0     -142677


         Operating Costs (VND
                 million)
                Staff costs        16831    20384   23649   27686   38852   40740  43214  43214    43214
          Other operating costs    74304    83324   70872   94730   94665   99580  99912  99912    99912
          Total operating costs    91135   103708   94521  122416   133517  140320 143126 143126  143126
      Incremental operating costs     0     12573   3386    31281   42382   49185  51991  51991    51991


         Total incremental cost    72941   131888   98416  162930   193357  236790 127665 51991   -239625


         Production ('000 m3/yr)   131182  134871  136511  137733   139100  147250 156193 156193  156193
         Non-revenue water (%)     58.0%    55.6%   52.1%   49.4%   47.0%   40.9%   37%    37%     37%
            Sales ('000m3/yr)      55096    59910   65348   69638   73723   87025  98343  98343    98343
        Average tariff (VND/m3)     1783    1763    1833    2166     2291    2547   2950   2950    2950
        Revenue from water sales   98229   105629  119811  150835   168910  221652 268964 268964  268964
              (VND Million)


             Other revenue         23599    28073   17960   39551   42948   41500    0      0        0
                 Taxes              -7315   -6971   -7068   -9247   -10040  -13372 -13448 -13448  -13448


          Incremental revenue      16284    28502   32473   82910   103589  151551 157287 157287  157287


              Net cash flow        -56657  -103385 -65943  -80020   -89768  -85239 29622  105296  396912


            No. connections        163746  176040  194870  227122   260000  290000 322650 322600  322600


      Incremental costs less taxes 69294   125922   93665  156348   185808  227410 123882 51991   -225044


           Coping costs avoided       0       0       0       0     45000   52500  60000  60000    60000
         (VND/connection/month)
        Total coping costs avoided    0       0       0       0     140400  182700 208800 208800  208800


              Net benefits         -69294  -125922 -93665  -156348  -45408  -44710 84918  156809  433844


        Investment costs for 2019
        allow a 35% salvage value



      Financial IRR is 15% and ERR 17.9%.



                                                   - 23 -

  HAIPHONG
                          1999       2000    2001       2002   2003   2004    2005   2006 to   2019
                                                                                      2018
 Investment Costs
 (VND million)
 IDA                     32763      63901    77026     71376   18193  13315     0       0     -96801
Utility                   5875      11097    16302     13010   3848    9279     0       0     -20794


 Operating Costs
 (VND million)
 Staff costs              7075       7329    11644     13000   15728  16000   19000   19000   19000
Other operating costs    25390      27338    33867     36746   43627  46129   59497   59497   59497
Total operating costs    32465      34667    45511     49746   59355  62129   78497   78497   78497
Incremental operating      763       2965    13809     18044   27653  30427   46795   46795   46795
costs


Total incremental cost   39401      77963   107137     102430  49694  53021   46795   46795   -70800


Production ('000 m3/yr)  39634      40328    41290     42112   44005  44510   44550   44550   44550
Non-revenue water (%)     49.7       47.7    39.6       33.8    29.7   27.5    22      22       22
Sales ('000m3/yr)        19947      21099    24927     27863   30918  32270   34700   34700   34700
Average tariff (VND/m3)   2249       2448    2522       2781   2972    3000   34600   3892     3892
 Revenue from water      44863      51646    62865     77487   91888  96809  116249  131830  131830
 sales (VND Million)


Other revenue             4072       4600    7115       7000   8001    3640     0       0       0
Taxes                     -2505     -2459    -3201     -3874   -5055  -5214   -5812   -6591   -6591


Incremental revenue      15903      23260    36252     50086   64307  64708   79909   94711   94711


Net cash flow            -23498     -54703  -70885     -52344  14613  11687   33114   47916  165511


No. connections          86897      93500   108000     131000  140176 141000 155000  155000  155000


Incremental costs less   37469      74213   102471     98211   48592  51891   46795   46795   -64920
taxes


 Coping costs avoided       0         0        0         0     45000  52500   60000   60000   60000
 (VND/connection/mont
 h)
 Total coping costs         0         0        0         0     75695  88830  101520  101520  101520
 avoided


Net benefits             -37469     -74213  -102471    -98211  27103  36939   54725   54725  166440


 Investment costs for
 2019 allow a 35%
  salvage value



Financial IRR is 15% and ERR is 12.2%.




                                                - 24 -

  QUANG NINH
                           1999       2000   2001      2002    2003    2004   2005   2006 to  2019
                                                                                      2018
 Investment Costs
 (VND million)
 IDA                      37295      41181   85998    37361   48949   43938     0       0    -103153
Utility                    7953       9386   14288     8519    8175    6536     0       0    -19303


 Operating Costs
 (VND million)
 Staff costs               4723       5724   6341      7015    8909   10518   11809  11809    11809
Other operating costs      7586       9183   9973     11347   14252   17595   22438  22438    22438
Total operating costs     12309      14907   16314    18362   23161   28113   34247  34247    34247
Incremental operating      176        2774   4181      6229   11028   15980   22114  22114    22114
costs


Total incremental cost    45424      53341  104467    52109   68152   66454   22114  22114   -100341


Production ('000 m3/yr)   13917      13925   13813    16169   17723   20468   23093  23093    23093
Non-revenue water (%)     47.0%      46.0%   44.0%    44.0%   39.0%   37.0%   33.5%  33.5%    33.5%
Sales ('000m3/yr)          7376       7520   7735      9055   10811   12895   15358  15358    15358
Average tariff (VND/m3)    2791       2962   3010      3035    4032    4073   4915    4915    4915
 Revenue from water       20586      22273   23283    27481   43590   52521   68391  68391    68391
 sales (VND Million)


Other revenue              2727       2572   4306      9296   17914   10395     0       0       0
Taxes                       0        -1363   -1563     -2214  -3808   -3531   -3420   -3420   -3420


Incremental revenue        4460       4628   7172     15709   38842   40531   46117  46117    46117


Net cash flow             -40964    -48713  -97295    -36400  -29310  -25923  24003  24003   146459


No. connections           24281      26053   28426    33849   49618   57536   77450  77450    77450


Incremental costs less    43162      50813   99453    49815   65296   63930   22114  22114   -94218
taxes


 Coping costs avoided       0          0       0         0    45000   52500   60000  60000    60000
 (VND/connection/mont
 h)
 Total coping costs         0          0       0         0    26794   36248   41426  41426    41426
 avoided


Net benefits              -43162    -50813  -99453    -49815  -38502  -27683  19312  19312   135644


 Investment costs for
 2019 allow a 35%
 salvage value



Financial IRR is 5.0% and ERR is 2.1%.




                                                - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year     Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification and                ECONOMIST;
              preparation files                 ENVIRONMENTAL
              were lost in                      ENGINEER; RESETTLEMENT
              EAP's 1997                        SPECIALIST; PROCUREMENT
              reorganization.                   ANALYST; SANITARY
              Time reporting                    ENGINEER;
              records indicate                  ENVIRONMENTAL
              that identification               SPECIALIST; FINANCIAL
              started in 1991.                  ANALYST
              Specialties are
              indicative.


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:                 10     ECONOMIST/TTL (1); SR.
              June/July 1996                    COUNSEL (1);
                                                ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                ENGINEER (1);
                                                RESETTLEMENT
                                                SPECIALIST (1);
                                                RESEARCH ASSISTANT
                                                (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                ANALYST (1); SANITARY
                                                ENGINEERS (2);
                                                ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                SPECIALIST (1);
                                                FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)


 Supervision

              02/27/1998                   2    ENVIRONMENTAL                    S               S
                                                ECONOMIST (1); MUNICIPAL
                                                ENGINEER (1)
              06/01/1998                   4    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           U               S
                                                (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                ECONOMIST (1);
                                                OPERATIONS
                                                OFFICER/ENGINEER (1);
                                                FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/06/1999                   3     MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                                OPERATIONS
                                                OFFICER/ENGINEER (1);
                                                FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              10/27/1999                   3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           S               S
                                                (1); OPERATIONS



                                                 - 26 -

                      OFFICER/ENGINEER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
Mid-Term Review:    6 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);     S    S
03/13/2000            OPERATIONS
                      OFFICER/ENGINEER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      HEALTH/PARTICIPATION (1);
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                      ASSISTANT (1)
12/13/2000          2 OPERATIONS                  U    S
                      OFFICER/ENGINEER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
12/05/2001          4 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL      S    S
                      (1); OPERATIONS
                      OFFICER/ENGINEER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
04/26/2002          4 OPERATIONS OFFICER/         S    S
                      ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                      MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)
09/23/2002          5 OPERATIONS                  S    S
                      OFFICER/ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                      URBAN SECTOR
                      COORDINATOR (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST(1);
                      RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)
03/28/2003          3 OPERATIONS                  S    S
                      OFFICE/ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                      URBAN SECTOR
                      COORDINATOR (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
09/23/2003          4 URBAN SECTOR                S    S
                      COORDINATOR (1);
                      OPERATIONS OFFICER/
                      ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1)
05/10/2004          3 INFRASTRUCTURE COORD.       S    S
                      (1); OPERATIONS
                      OFFICER/ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
11/08/2004          3 INFRASTRUCTURE COORD.       S    S
                      (1); OPERATIONS
                      OFFICER/ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)



                      - 27 -

 ICR
               4/30/2005                     1     ECONOMIST                         S              S

Much of the ICR work was carried out in the November 2004 supervision mission; the April 2005 mission
largely conducted follow-up work.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  209.5                         773.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        19.7                           56.9
  Supervision                                 240.4                         584.0
  ICR                                          11.0                           36.6
  Total                                       480.6                       1,450.5
Regional direct mark-up to direct cost is 25% for FY99 and before.




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA


Poverty reduction: Substantial reductions in poverty rates as measured by the biennial Vietnam
Household Living Standards Surveys were achieved over the period 1999 to 2004: Haiphong ­
29% to 7%; Hanoi ­ 16% to 4%; and Quang Ninh ­ 35% to 6%. As access to water is closely
linked to poverty and the project achieved one hundred percent coverage in the urban districts
covered by the project, it seems reasonable to infer that the project contributed to the poverty
alleviation achieved.




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study, prepared by UNDP/Wb in 04/1990
 2. National Water Supply Strategy, prepared by MOC in 05/1994
 3. National Urban Sanitation Sector Strategy, prepared by MOC in 08/1996
 4. National Water Tariff Policy Study, prepared by ADB in 03/1996
 5. Hanoi Water Supply and Environment Project, Feasibility Study - Final Report, prepared by
Soil and Water in 11/1995
 6. Hai Phong Water Supply and Environment Project, Feasibility Study - Final Report, prepared
by Soil and Water in 11/1995
 7. Ha Long City Water Supply and Environment Project, Project Formulation and Feasibility
Study, prepared by Cal Bro Int. in 10/1995
 8. Water Sector Strategy prepared by the WB in 2005
 9. Bench Marking Reports prepared by the WB in 6/2002 and 6/2003
10. New Decree on Clean Water Production, Supply and Consumption, prepared by the WB and
MOC in 2006
11. Back to Office Reports (including management letters, aides-memoire, PSR/ISRs)




                                              - 31 -

- 32 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 28592

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                  WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                 judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                HANOI
                                                                      Red                                                                                                        acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                 River                                                                                                                                                                                             WATER TREATMENT PLANTS:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PIPELINES / DIAMETER (mm):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    300              PROJECT
                                                                                                   300                                                                                                                                                                              400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                River                                                                REHABILITATION
                                                 Cao Dinh                                                                                                                                                               Duong                                                       400              UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                 Water Treatment Plant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    400              EXISTING

                                                  800

                                                                                                                  400                                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING ROADS


                                        800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0                   1        2           3          4              5


                                                                600           002          West                                                                                                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS


                                                                                                                         300
                                                                                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                               600                                                                                                                                                   105°                                            110°
                                                                                   300
                                                      600                                                                                 300        Yen Phu
                                                                            Ngo Si Lien                                                              Water Treatment Plant                                                                                                                                                         C H I N A

            400                                                        600  Water Treatment Plant
                                                                                                      300                600
                                   600                                                                                                      600
                       600                                                           600                                                         600               315
                                           600                                                                                                         600
                                                                                                     600                     400
                               600                                        400                           400                              400                                                                                                                                                                 Hanoi          Quang Ninh Province
                                                                                            400                                                            600        600
                                                                                                                                                                           315                                                                                                                                                 (for detail see
                     Mai Dich                                                                                                                        400
                                                                                                                600                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 28594)
          Water Treatment Plant                                                                                                                         400
                                                                                 600
                                            600                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Haiphong
                                                                                                                                                                          400                                                                                                                                       (for detail see
                                  800                                                    400
                                                                                                                                                 400                 400                                                                                  20°  LAO PEOPLE'S                                         IBRD 28593)                      20°
                                                                   300           315                   400
                                                                                                                400  Ngo Si Lien                                                                                                                                DEMOCRATIC
                                                                                            400                      Water Treatment Plant                                            400
Nihue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REPUBLIC                                             G u l f
                                                                                                                    400   400                                       400
                                                                                                                                                 400          400                                                                                                                                   V I E T N A M
     River                                     800                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          o f
                                                              600            600                          400                               400                                          600

                                                                                                                                                                                            Luong Yen
                                                                                                                           600                             400                                                                                                                                                           To n k i n


                                                                                         600              315         315                                                                   Water Treatment Plant

                                                       600                400                                                                       600                 600

                                                                                                   400                                400                        400
                                                                                                      400    315
                                                                                         600                         400                                                        513

                                                                 315              600                                                            400                                        315             600
                                                                                                         400
                                                                                              400                                                               400                                                                                                                                                                  Da Nang
                                                                                                                                                600                                006                                                                                                                                                 (for detail see
                                                            200
                                                                400                                                                                                        600              800
                                                                             300                                                   600                                                                    600                                                                                                                          IBRD 28595)

                                                                                                                                                        600
                                                                                                                                                                         Tuong Mai
                                                200     300                                                                                                                                                                                               15°                                                                                        15°
                                                                    300                                                                                600               Water Treatment
                                                                        Ha Dinh                                        600                                               Plant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1000
                                                                        Water Treatment Plant                                              600                                                                          Nam Du
                                                                                                                                600                                                         Kim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Water Treatment Plant
                                                                                                                                                                                               Nguu


                                                                                                                                                                                                   River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C A M B O D I A


                                                                                                                                           600
                                                                                         River

                                                                                   ToLich
                                                                                                                                                   Phap Van
                                                                                                                                           Water Treatment
                                                                                                                                                     Plant                                                                                                         Gulf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Thailand

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10°                                                                                        10°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and any other information shown on this                  0        100        200       300

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           map do not imply, on the part of The                               KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           World Bank Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           boundaries.                               105°                                            110°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 1997

        HAIPHONG REGION                                                                                                            PROJECT:                                                                           105°                                                110°

                                                                                                                                    QUAN VINH RAW WATER INTAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C H I N A
                                                                                                                                    AN DUONG WATER TREATMENT PLANT

          Kim Son                                                                                                                   TRANSMISSION PIPELINE

                                                                                                                                   EXISTING:

                                                                                                                                    RAW WATER INTAKES

                                                                                                                                    WATER TREATMENT PLANTS                                                                                  Quang Ninh Province
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (for detail see
                                                                                                                                    BOOSTER PUMPING STATIONS                                                        Hanoi                       IBRD 28594)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (for detail see
                                                                                                                                    MAIN TRANSMISSION PIPELINES                                                                           Haiphong
              Cau Ho                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 28592)
                                                                                                                                    URBAN CENTER
                                           Quan Toan                                                                                                                      20°  LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                               20°

                           Vat Cach                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS                                  DEMOCRATIC
                                                                 Song Cua Cam                                                                                                        REPUBLIC                                                   G u l f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V I E T N A M                                Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o f              (China)
                                                              300  -                                             Song
                                                                    400                                              Cua                                                                                                                      To n k i n
                                                                                                                         Cam


                                                             Quan Vinh      1000                  Haiphong
                                                                                                     Urban
                                                                            An Duong        400      Center
                                                                                                         For detail,                                                                                                                                       Da Nang
                                                                                                         see map below                                                                                                                                       (for detail see

                                           Song                                      600                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 28595)
                                                 Lach  Tray
                                                                                                                                                                          15°                                                                                              15°
               Cau Vang                                             400
                                                    Kien An                                                 Song
                                                                                                                 Lach
                                                                            600                                       Tray


                                                           600                                           Song
                                         Cau Nguyet             600                                                                                                                                              C A M B O D I A
                                                                                                                 He


                             Do                                                                                Song He
                           Da

                       Song
                                                                                                                             300-400                                               Gulf
              Van                                                                                                                                                                    of
                    Uc                                                                                                                                                         Thailand

           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                10°                                                                                              10°
           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                           This map was produced by the
           on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                              Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations
           judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                            and any other information shown on this                        0       100        200       300

           acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                  map do not imply, on the part of The                                    KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                           World Bank Group, any judgment on the
                                                       0             2          4       6       8       10 KILOMETERS                                      Do Son          legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                           boundaries.                                105°                                                110°




                                                                                         S o n g C u a C a m

                             SO DAU



                        300-400300                                                                                                             400      MAY TO                        MAY CHAT                     BINH HAI

                                                                                     HALY                                                                                                                                     300               300
                                                 THUONG LY                                         MINH                  400
                                                                                                   KHAI                                                                400
                                                                                                                                      200   300
                                                                                                                                                                 LAC VIEN
                                                            300                           400                                400                   Nga Nam                        250            400              VAN MY
                                                                                300                                  HOANG                           400                          400
                                                                                                                                                                                           CAU TRE
                                                                        006                                         VAN THU
                                                                                                                                   200
                                                                                                            400
                                                                                                   QUANG
                                                                                                   TRUNG
                                                                                                                        LUONG
                                                                                           BOI CHAU                     KHANH                         GIA VIEN
                                                                                       PHAN     500                      THIEN
                                                                                          600                     CAU
                                                                                                                                   300                                       DANG LAM
                                                                                                400     ME         DAT
                                                                                                                                          400
                                                                                            AN BIEN    LINH                                                                                                            This map was produced by the
                                                                                CAT DAI            300                                                                                                                 Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                 DONG KHE                                              and any other information shown on
                                                                                                       TRAI CAU                                                                                                        this map do not imply, on the part of
                               300                                           TRAN                                                                                                                                      The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                       400
                                                 LAM                        NGUYEN               400                             300                                                                                   on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                 SON                         HAN                                                                                                                                       any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                   400                  HO               400                                    LACH
                                                                                                                           HANG                                                                                        such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                TRAY
                      AN                                           400               NAM                                    KENH
                    DONG                               An Duong                                                                                   400
                                                         AN DUONG
                                                                                                600
                                                                                                                 DONG HAI
                                                                                                                                          400
                                                                                                                    400                                      200
                                                                                                                                                                          DANG GIANG
                                                                       600                                                                              400                                                           VIETNAM
                                                                            NIEM NGHIA                                                                                                        WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
                                                                               400                                  DU HANG KENH                        400                                                          HAIPHONG
                                                                                                                                                                 DONG
                                                                                                                                                                 QUOC       DANG                                                 AN DUONG
                                                                                                                                                                  BINH     GIANG                                                 WATER TREATMENT PLANT
                                                                                                         200                                                                                                                     PIPELINES / DIAMETER (mm):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       300         PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        300        EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                    200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING B.P.S. (Booster Pumping Sta.)
                                                                                                                                                                CAU
                                                                                                                                         400                    RAO                                                              PROJECT B.P.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                300

                              400                                                                                                                                                       CAT BI                                   EXISTING ROADS
                                  600                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD
MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXTENSION OF DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                     300                           NETWORK IN BLOCKS
  Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28593
   1997                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PHUONGS)
                                  0                                    1                         2 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BLOCK (PHUONG) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 28594




                                                                                                                                                              VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                           WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                   0           1               2              3              4           5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                             QUANG NINH PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                          WTP      WATER TREATMENT PLANTS                                          on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                           R       NEW RESERVOIRS                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                   PIPELINES / DIAMETER (mm):                                                                                                                              Cong Hoa
                                                                                                                                                          900
                                                                                                                                                                     NEW
                                                                                                                                                          800
                                                                                                                                                                     REHABILITATION


                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING ROADS

                                            105°                                            110°


                                                                            C H I N A




                                                   Quang Ninh
                                                      Province Area of map                                                                                                                                                                          Duang Huy
                                          Hanoi                   Halong City

                                          (for detail see    Haiphong                                                       Son Duong
                                          IBRD 28592)                                                                                                                                                     Cao Van Reservoir
                                                            (for detail see
20°  LAO PEOPLE'S                                            IBRD 28593)                    20°

      DEMOCRATIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mong Duong
           REPUBLIC                                                G u l f
                                           V I E T N A M                            Hainan I.
                                                                     o f            (China)              Dong Ho
                                                                                                         Water Treatment Plant                                                                                            900
                                                                  To n k i n                             20000 cmd

                                                                                                            WTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Da Bac Weir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cua Ong
                                                                                                                      150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WTP   Dien Vong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Water Treatment Plant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60000 cmd                                                                                              400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cam Pha

                                                                              Da Nang                                                                                                                               800                                         600      300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R                                                      500
                                                                              (for detail see
                                                                               IBRD 28595)                                                                                                                              Quang Hanh                                             600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        600
                                                                                                                      500
15°                                                                                         15°     Dong Dang


                                                                                                                               500
                                                                                                      Viet Hung

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 600
                                                                                                                                  Gieng Day

                                                                                                                            200
                                       C A M B O D I A                                                                                           300
                                                                                                                                                                                    500
                                                                                                                                                       Cai Lan        Cao Thang          Ha Lam
                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                            Hung Thang
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ha Tu
                                                                                                                                             Bai Chay
                                                                                                                                                     300

                                                                                                                                                             Hong Gai  300
         Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                500
           of
     Thailand

10°                                                                                         10°

 This map was produced by the
 Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations
 and any other information shown on this                      0      100       200       300                                           Ha Long Bay
 map do not imply, on the part of The                                  KILOMETERS
 World Bank Group, any judgment on the
 legal status of any territory, or any
 endorsement or acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                                                             Bai Tu Long Bay
 boundaries.                                105°                                            110°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAY 1997

