Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Interim Fund Credit Number N-026-VN
Interim Fund Project Agreement
(Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established with funds contributed by certain 
members of International Development Association pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association
and
HANOI WATER BUSINESS COMPANY
HAIPHONG WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
QUANG NINH WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
DANANG WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
Dated July 7, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N026-VN 
INTERIM FUND PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1997, among the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-MENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, and HANOI WATER 
BUSINESS COMPANY, HAIPHONG WATER SUPPLY COMPANY, QUANG NINH WATER SUPPLY COMPANY, 
DANANG WATER SUPPLY COMPANY (the Water Companies).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
WHEREAS (B) by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the Borrower) and the Administrator, 
the Administrator has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventy one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
71,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Water Companies agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Administrator as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(C)
by  subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower 
and each of the Water Companies, the proceeds of the Interim  Fund Credit provided for 
under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the 
Water Companies on the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary loan 
agreements; and
WHEREAS the Water Companies, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering 
into the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
Page  2
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement  and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Water Company declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the following Parts of the Project:
(i)
Hanoi Water Business Company, Parts A.1 and B.1;
(ii)
Haiphong Water Supply Company, Parts A.2 and B.2;
(iii)
Quang Ninh Water Supply Company, Parts A.3 and B.3; and
(iv)
Danang Water Supply Company, Parts A.4 and B.4;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, resettlement and rehabilitation 
of Affected Persons, and water supply practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator and the Water Companies shall otherwise agree, each 
Water Company shall carry out its Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Water Company shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and its 
Respective Parts of the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
each Water Company shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the 
Administrator and such Water 
Company, a plan for the future operation of its 
Respective Parts of 
the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with such 
Water Company on said plan. 
Section 2.04. Each Water Company shall duly perform all its obligations under 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, none of the Water Companies shall take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving its respective Subsidiary 
Page  3
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. Section 2.05. (a) Each Water Company shall, 
at the request of the Administrator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard 
to the progress of its Respective Parts of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
Each Water Company shall promptly inform the Administrator of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
Respective Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim 
Fund Credit, or the performance by such Water Company of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Water Companies
Section 3.01. Each Water Company shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and public 
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Each Water Company shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. Each Water Company shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each Water Company shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
Each Water Company shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Hanoi 
Water Business Company and Haiphong Water Supply Company shall each produce for each 
of its Fiscal Years, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) 
total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt service require\1fments 
exceed the provision for depreciation.
(b)
By September 30 of each of its Fiscal Years, commencing in 1998, Hanoi 
Water Business Company and Haiphong Water Supply Company shall, on the basis of 
Page  4
forecasts prepared by such Water Company and satisfactory to the Administrator, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the 
Administrator the results of such review upon its comple\1ftion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Hanoi Water Business Company or Haiphong 
Water Supply Company would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for its Fiscal Years covered by such review, such Water Company shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (inclu\1fding, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision of depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not 
less than 5.65% per annum of the 
average current gross value of such Water 
Company’s fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the 
Administrator, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of such Water Company’s fixed 
assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum 
of the gross value of its 
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and 
at the end of the fiscal year, 
as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently 
maintained methods of 
valuation satisfac\1ftory to the Administrator.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Bor\1frower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Hanoi Water 
Business Company and Haiphong Water Supply Company shall each produce, for each of its 
Fiscal Years, funds from internal sources equivalent to: (i) after its Fiscal Year 
ending on December 31, 1997, not less than 3% of the annual average of such Water 
Company’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year and 
the next following fiscal years; and (ii) after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 
2001, not less than 20% of such annual average.
(b)
By September 30 of each of its Fiscal Years, commencing in 1998, Hanoi 
Water Business Company and Haiphong Water Supply Company shall each, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by such Water Company and satisfactory to the Administrator, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the 
Page  5
Administrator a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Hanoi Water Business Company or Haiphong 
Water Supply Company would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for its fiscal years covered by such review, such Water Company shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contribu\1ftions in aid of 
construc\1ftion, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts \0c
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account 
of fixed 
assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Administrator.
Page  6
Section 4.04. (a)  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Hanoi 
Water Business Company and Haiphong Water Supply Company shall not incur any debt 
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of such Water Company 
shows that the estimated net revenues of such Water Company for each Fiscal Year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated 
debt service requirements of such Water Company in such year on all debt of such Water 
Company including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of such Water Company 
maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it 
is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations includ\1fing 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision 
for deprecia\1ftion, other non-cash 
operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by such 
Water Company 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Administrator 
and such Water Company accept as 
reasonable and as to which the 
Administrator has notified such Water Company 
of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification 
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of such Water Company.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
\0cat the time of such valuation, obtainable 
for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on 
the basis of 
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Quang Ninh 
Water Supply Company and Danang Water Supply Company shall each maintain, for each of 
its Fiscal Years, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues, 
which shall be: (i) after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1997, not higher than 
100%; (ii) after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2001, not higher than 85%; and 
Page  7
(iii) after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2004, not higher than 65%.
(b)
By September 30 of each of its Fiscal Years, commencing in 1998, Quang 
Ninh Water Supply Company and Danang Water Supply Company shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by each of them and satisfactory to the Administrator, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in 
respect of such Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to 
the Administrator the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Quang Ninh Water Supply Company or Danang 
Water Supply Company would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for its Fiscal Years covered by such review, such Water Company shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
opera\1ftions, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at the 
following per annum rates of the 
average current gross value of the Water 
Company’s fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the 
Administrator, but excluding interest and other charges on debt: (A) for Quang 
Ninh Water Supply Company, 5.15% commencing from its Fiscal Year 1998 through 
2002 and 2.43% thereafter; and (B) for Danang Water Supply company, 5.65% 
commencing on its Fiscal Year 1998.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
(iii)
The average current gross value of the Water Company’s fixed 
assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum 
of the gross value of the 
Water Company’s fixed assets in operation at 
the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from time to 
time in accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Administrator.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and of 
the Water Companies thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate; 
or 
(ii)
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates before the 
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Water Companies of this event. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
Section 5.04  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Page  8
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hanoi Water Business Company:
Director
Hanoi Water Business Company
44 Yen Phu Avenue
Hanoi, Vietnam
For Haiphong Water Supply Company:
Director
Haiphong Water Supply Company
54 Dinh Tien Hoang Street
Haiphong, Vietnam
For Quang Ninh Water Supply Company:
Director
Quang Ninh Water Supply Company
Nguyen Van Cu Avenue
Halong City, Vietnam
For Danang Water Supply Company:
Director
Danang Water Supply Company
25 Pasteur Street
Danang, Vietnam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of:
(a) 
Hanoi Water Business Company may be taken or executed by its Director, or 
by such other person or persons as Hanoi Water Business Company shall designate in 
writing, and Hanoi Water Business Company shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Page  9
(b) 
Haiphong Water Supply Company may be taken or executed by its Director, 
or by such other person or persons as Haiphong Water Supply Company shall designate in 
writing, and Haiphong Water Supply Company shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
(c) 
Quang Ninh Water Supply Company may be taken or executed by its Director, 
or by such other person or persons as Quang Ninh Water Supply Company shall designate 
in writing, and Quang Ninh Water Supply Company shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
(d) 
Danang Water Supply Company may be taken or executed by its Director, or 
by such other person or persons as Danang Water Supply Company shall designate in 
writing, and Danang Water Supply Company shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Bradley Babson
       Authorized Representative
HANOI WATER BUSINESS COMPANY
By /s/ Bui Van Mat
       Authorized Representative
HAIPHONG WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
By /s/ Dam Xuan Luy
Authorized Representative
QUANG NINH WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
By /s/ Le Minh
Authorized Representative
DANANG WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
By /s/ Ho But
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  10
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule,  goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for supply and install contracts shall be prequalified in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $890,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for supply and install contracts, and with respect 
to each contract for goods estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  11
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
To assist in the overall supervision of the carrying out of  its Respective 
Parts of the Project,  each Water Company shall retain the services of a Construction 
Page  12
Management Consultant with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Administrator; provided, however, that the Hanoi Water Business 
Company, the Haiphong Water Supply Company and the Danang Water Supply Company shall 
select the Construction Management Consultant pursuant to the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the Quang Ninh Water Supply Company pursuant to 
the terms and conditions of the Danish Grant Agreement.
2.
(a)  Each Water Company shall carry out its Respective Part of Part B of the 
Project in accordance with annual plans acceptable to the Administrator, and, to that 
end, each Water Company shall, by October 30 in each year, commencing on October 30, 
1997, prepare and furnish to the Administrator for its concurrence a plan for the 
implementation of such Part in the next calendar year.
(b)
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) above, each Water 
Company shall:
(i) 
carry out the studies under its Respective Part of Part B of the 
Project in 
accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to 
the Administrator;
(ii) 
furnish such studies to the Administrator for comment promptly 
upon their 
completion, and;
(iii)  thereafter, implement the recommendations of such studies, taking 
into account  
the views of the Administrator.
3.
For purposes of carrying out the works for tertiary water distribution networks 
under Parts A.1(c), A.2(c), A.3(c), A.3(e) and A.4(d) of the Project, each Water 
Company shall: 
(a)
no later than six months prior to the start up of works in a given site 
or group of sites, prepare and furnish to the Administrator for its approval: (i) 
final alignment, and detailed designs and plans for the tertiary distribution network 
works to be carried out within the given site or sites under its Respective Parts of 
the Project listed above; and (ii) detailed Action Plans in respect of such works, 
prepared in accordance with its respective Part III  Resettlement Action Plan, and to 
include a socio-economic survey of the Affected Persons, cost and budgets and 
implementation schedule; and
(b)
thereafter complete the implementation of the Action Plans as so approved 
no later than one month prior to start-up of works, and carry out such  works in 
accordance with such final alignment, and detailed designs and plans as so approved. 
4.
Each Water Company undertakes to carry out the compensation, assistance, 
resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected Persons in accordance with the 
provisions of its respective Resettlement Action Plan, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Administrator.
5.
By December 31, 1997, each Water Company shall under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Administrator, retain an independent monitoring agency with 
qualified and experienced staff to: (i) undertake the external monitoring and 
supervision of the implementation of  its respective Resettlement Action Plan; (ii) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the  concerned Water Company and the 
Administrator semiannual monitoring reports thereof, the first of such reports to be 
furnished by June 30, 1998; and (iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the 
concerned Water Company and the Administrator a final evaluation report on completion 
of the Action Plans under Parts II and III of each of the Resettlement Action Plans.  
6.
Each Water Company shall implement its Environmental Management Plan in a manner 
and substance satisfactory to the Administrator. 
7.
The Quang Ninh Water Supply Company shall, by December 31, 1997, furnish to the 
Administrator for its approval, proposed arrangements for the periodic annual 
inspection of the Cao Van dam in Quang Ninh Province, in accordance with sound 
engineering practices in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the 
design, construction and/or repair of the dam, or in the condition of such structure, 
or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance, or methods of operation of the same, 
which may endanger its safety. Thereafter, the Quang Ninh Water Supply Company shall 
Page  13
implement the dam safety inspection arrangements as approved by the Administrator.
8.
The Quang Ninh Water Supply Company shall take all such action as shall be 
necessary to provide, or cause to be provided, the households from Quang Ninh Province 
relocated  in Gia Lai Province, near Pleiku District, due to the construction of the 
Cao Van dam, with: (a) an aggregate of 5.3 hectares of agricultural land contiguous to 
the agricultural land already provided to such households; and (b) electrical 
connections to all the above-mentioned households. 
9.
The Borrower shall cause the Provincial People’s Committee of Gia Lai Province 
to provide, by June 30, 1998, dry season irrigation facilitity to the households 
mentioned in paragraph 8 above.
10.
Each Water Company shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of its Respective Parts of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator: (i) semi-annual reports, not later than June 30 and 
December 31 in each calendar year, the first of such semi-annual reports to be 
furnished by June 30, 1998, consolidating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, during the preceding 
calendar semester in respect of its Respective Parts of the Project, setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Parts of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof and of the Project as a 
whole during the then current calendar semester; and (ii) a mid-term report, not later 
than June 30, 1999, consolidating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed by each Water Company during the period preceding the date 
thereof and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of its Respective Parts of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
and of the Project as a whole during the period following such date.
