Page  1
GRANT NUMBER TF020966
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 24, 1997, between THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK (DENMARK) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the 
administration, by the Association, of certain funds to be made available by DENMARK 
to the SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (hereinafter referred to as Vietnam).
WHEREAS: (A) DENMARK wishes, pursuant to the Cofinancing and Technical 
Assistance Framework Agreement, dated April 28, 1994, between DENMARK, the Association 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter referred to 
as the Framework Agreement), to make available to Vietnam a grant in an amount 
equivalent to five million dollars of the United States of America (US$5,000,000) 
(hereinafter referred to as the Grant) to assist Vietnam in financing part of the cost 
of the supply and install contract related to the Quang Ninh Water Supply Component of 
the Water Supply Project (hereinafter referred to as the Component);
(B) DENMARK has requested the Association, and the Association has agreed, to 
administer the Grant.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Grant shall be provided by DENMARK and administered by the 
Association in accordance with the Framework Agreement. The terms and conditions of 
the Framework Ag;eement shall apply to this Grant except as otherwise provided herein.
Section 1.02. The Association, as administrator on behalf of DENMARK, shall 
enter into such agreements with Vietnam as it may deem appropriate for the purpose of 
financing part of the cost of the supply and install contract related to the 
Component.
Section 1.03. The Association, as administrator on behalf of DENMARK, shall have 
the sole responsibility for the supervision of the Component and shall keep DENMARK 
informed of the progress of the Component. Before sending missions to review the 
progress of the Component, the Association shall inform DENMARK on the timing of such 
missions so as to enable Denmark to participate and to exchange views on the results 
of such missions.
Section 1.04. The administration and enforcement of any provisions of any 
agreement entered into between Vietnam and the Association for the purposes of this 
Agreement shall be handled solely by the Association, and the Association specifically 
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to DENMARK, to exercise, 
refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such agreement or to modify any 
provision thereof, provided, however, that before suspending the right of Vietnam to 
make withdrawals of funds under such agreement, the Association shall inform DENMARK 
and afford DENMARK a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.05. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, DENMARK will deposit the Grant 
into the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development's (IBRD's) Cash Account 
"T" (ABA number 0210-8002-5) maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
(FRBNY) in New York City, by no later than January 31, 1998.
Section 2.02. In accordance with Article V, Section 1(f)(i) of the 
above-mentioned Cofinancing and Technical Assistance Framework Agreement, the 
Association is entitled to deduct from the Grant funds deposited into the said Cash 
Account, an amount or amounts equivalent to 2% of the total deposited Grant funds. 
Similarly, the Association is entitled to deduct from the Grant funds deposited into 
the said Cash Account the cost of the external audit referred to in Article VIII, 
Section 4 of the said Framework Agreement, in an amount normally not more than 
US$2,000 ( Article V, Section 1(f) of the said Framework Agreement). To assist Vietnam 
to meet the financing plan for the Project, DEC and the Association hereby agree that 
Page  2
the costs of administration of this Grant, one hundred thousand dollars of the United 
States of America (US$100,000), and the estimated cost of the external audits, two 
thousand dollars of the United States of America (US$2,000), shall be paid by DENMARK 
over and above the total amount of the Grant funds being deposited. DENMARK will, 
therefore, deposit the US$102,000 representing the costs of administration and 
external audit into the International Bank for Reconstruction Development's (IBRD's) 
Cash Account "T" (ABA number 0210-8002-5) maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York (FRBNY) in New York City, by no later than January 31, 1998.
Section 2.03. The Association shall withdraw from the T-Account such amounts as, 
from time to time, shall be needed to meet the reasonable cost of the supply and 
install contracts to be financed pursuant to Section 1.02 of this Agreement, such 
withdrawals to be effected through the normal disbursement procedures of the 
Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
contracts financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called IBRD) in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines). Notwithstanding the provisions of 
paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds of the Grant may only be withdrawn on 
account of expenditures for goods and works provided by nationals of, and produced in 
or supplied from, Participating Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that 
are not Participating Countries and bidders offering goods and works from such 
countries shall be disqualified from bidding for such contracts, and the bidding 
documents shall so specify. For the purpose of this Agreement, the term "Participating 
Country' means any country that meets the requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996, and "Participating Countries" means, collectively, all such countries.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. The Association shall:
(a) maintain separate records and accounts in respect of the funds in the 
T-Account and disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions of this 
Agreement;
(b) cause such accounts and records to be audited and certified by the 
Association's external auditors after completion of disbursements;
(c) furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to DENMARK immediately 
after the completion of the Component; and
(d) maintain an updated record of procurement contracts financed from the
proceeds of the Grant
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. DENMARK and the Association shall consult, from time to time, at
the request of either party, on all matters arising out of this Agreement and on other 
matters of common interest to them in the administration of the T-Account or the 
carrying out of the Component. 
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
the entire proceeds of the Grant have been withdrawn.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement cannot effectively or appropriately be carried out, this Agreement may 
be terminated at the initiative of such party on ninety days' (90 day) notice in 
writing to the other party.
Section 5.03. Upon termination, of this Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any funds including any accrued interest on such funds or 
other property of DENMARK held hereunder by the Association shall be returned to 
DENMARK and the Association's administration shall be considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of the Agreement, the Association shall 
Page  3
furnish to DENMARK a final report and a financial statement of the T-Account, together 
with an opinion of the Association's external auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE IV
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For DENMARK:
       The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark
       Asiatisk Plads 2,
       1448 Copenhagen
       Denmark
       Cable address:
Telex:
       ETRANGERES
31292
       Copenhagen
For the Association:
       International Development Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America
       Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto have signed this 
Agreement.
KINGDOM OF DENMARK
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer
Authorized Representative
