Report No. PID1074
Project Name                     Vietnam-Water Supply Project (@ +)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Other Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       VNPE4830
Borrower                         Government of the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam
Implementing agencies            1)      Hanoi Water Business Company
Eng. Bui Van Mat, Director
Hanoi Water Business Company
2)      Haiphong Water Supply Company
Eng. Dam Xuan Luy, Director
Haiphong Water Supply Company
3)      Quang Ninh Water Supply Company
Eng. Le Minh, Director
Quang Ninh Water Supply Company
4)      Danang Water Supply Company
Eng. Ho But, Director
Danang Water Supply Company
Date initial PID prepared        March 8, 1996
Date this PID prepared           March 25, 1997
Projected appraisal date         March 1997
Projected Board date             June 1997
1.      Country and sector background: Vietnam is the second most
populous country in Southeast Asia with a 1995 population of 74
million projected to reach 80 million by 2000. About 15 million
(209) of the population is urban. Four major cities Ho Chi Minh
City, Hanoi Danang and Haiphong account for 37% of the urban
population with the remainder living in about 500 locations. About
80% of the urban population is concentrated in 77 cities with
population over 15,000.
2.      Economic growth has accelerated with the introduction of
reforms in 1986. Since then it has averaged around 7-8 percent per
annum leading to increased urbanization (estimated to grow by 70%
in next ten years) and rising urban incomes. Foreign investment has
been attracted to Vietnam but limited by infrastructure constraints
in urban areas. Infrastructure in most cities and towns laid at the
end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century has not been
adequately maintained or upgraded because of resource constraints.
3.      Piped water is estimated to reach about 50% of the urban
population. In the largest cities, access ranges between 60%-80%,
while in small towns it is under 30%. The rest use shallow wells,



rainwater, rivers and ponds. In the larger cities, residents
frequently carry water to their homes from public taps.
4.      Due to past resource constraints, the quality of service has
deteriorated. Low pressure and intermittent supply are common.
Treatment plants are often ineffective, suffering from design and
construction faults; in many cases, they simply do not exist and
water is supplied untreated. Groundwater is a source for only 30%
of urban water systems while 70% use surface water. Overall, it is
estimated that about 80% of the water supply does not meet drinking
water standards.
5.      Project objectives: The project is intended to: (a) upgrade
the water supply infrastructure in four major cities to satisfy
demand up to 2000; (b) develop the institutional capabilities of
water agencies, advance their commercialization, and update their
staff skills through training; and (c) prepare a program for future
investments so as to satisfy water demand after 2000.
6.      Project Description: The project includes: (a) renewal and
upgrading of water supply facilities in the urban districts of
Hanoi, Haiphong, Danang and Halong City/Cam Pha Town in Quang Ninh
Province; (b) institutional measures to ensure sustainability of
the physical investments; and (c) support activities consisting of
various studies, advisory services, supervision of construction and
training.
7.      Project cost and financing: The project cost is estimated at
VND 1569.21 billion (US$142.66 million), with the foreign currency
requirement of US$73.91 million. The proposed IDA credit would be
funded under the Interim Trust Fund (ITF) administered by IDA and
subject to special provisions regarding procurement. The credit
(US$98.61 million) would finance 69% of project costs net of taxes.
Finland would finance US$3.89 million for studies, advisors and
training in Hanoi and Haiphong, Denmark and would finance US$4.7
million for studies, advisors, training and construction
supervision, US$3.06 million for individual connections and US$5.0
million for construction of water supply facilities in Quang Ninh,
and Australia would finance US$1.33 million for studies, advisors,
training and construction supervision in Danang. The remaining
US$26.07 million would be financed locally.
8.      Project implementation: The WSC in each province would employ
the contractors to supply equipment and construct the proposed
facilities. In Hanoi and Haiphong, they would also hire engineering
firms to act as the contract management consultants (CMC), while in
Quang Ninh, the CMC would be provided through Danish aid and in
Danang through Australian aid. The CMCs would report to WSC
directors and for daily activities, the directors would delegate
responsibility to the component coordinators, who would head the
component implementation units (CIUs) within the WSCs. Together,
the WSCs and provincial governments would establish component
implementation committees (CICs) to help the WSCs implement the
works and facilitate administrative actions. The CMCs would also
serve as secretariats to the CICs and report on implementation
-2 -



progress at regular meetings.
9.      Construction for the project is expected to start in October
1997 and be completed in December 2001. The schedule is considered
realistic since each component involves just one contract for both
civil works and the supply and installation of goods.
10.     Sustainability: Financial sustainability depends upon the
appropriate mix between investment levels, on-lending terms,
Government equity support and tariff levels. Agreement has been
reached on a package that places a sustainable burden on the
presently weak WSCs. Institutionally, sustaining the necessary
revenue streams would depend upon application of commercial billing
and collection procedures, reducing non-revenue water, introducing
performance enhancing incentives and appropriate training. These
have been included as part of Technical Assistance to the project.
Collaboration with international private water system operators is
included to transfer best practices to the WSCs.
11.     Environmental aspects: Implementation of the project would be
beneficial for the living standards and health conditions of the
local population. Rehabilitation of the existing facilities would
reduce non-revenue water while the renovation of treatment plants
and transmission and distribution lines would improve the quality
and volume of water, enhance service levels and raise revenues.
12.     Negative impacts would include the acquisition of cultivated
land, demolition of structures and inconvenience for the residents
during construction. To ameliorate these effects, the project would
include environmental monitoring, which would continue during
implementation. Land compensation would be paid according to the
resettlement action plans. Other compensations would be made to
government agencies (where their property is affected) during the
construction of the water mains and distribution networks.
13.     Project benefits: The project is part of the Government's
strategy to upgrade infrastructure in major urban centers to a
level consistent with its plans to provide adequate and safe water
and to meet the anticipated demand of commerce and industry in
designated growth areas. Hanoi, Haiphong and Quang Ninh are part of
the northeastern growth triangle and Danang is the designated
growth center in central Vietnam. The strategy includes
commercializing the water companies in order to make them consumer-
oriented and financially self-sufficient.
14.     Rehabilitating the water supply systems would result in the
following consumer benefits: (a) improved level of service in terms
of water pressure, hours of supply and reliability; and (b)
improved quality, which, at present, does not generally meet WHO or
Government standards for drinking water. For the water supply
companies, it would reduce the extent of non-revenue water (NRW),
and thus increase revenues. Expanding system capacity would provide
safe water for those who currently rely on sources other than piped
water and meet the needs of large consumers who have had to provide
their own water. This would reduce private expenses and also
- 3 -



increase the water companies' revenues. Institutional development
with the aim of commercializing the water companies would focus on
improving billing and collection systems, customer relationships
and management incentives. These improvements will be possible, and
ultimately upgrade financial performance, because of the physical
investments that will be made.
15.     The overall economic rate of return of 16% estimated under
very conservative assumptions exceeds the real cost of capital in
Vietnam and is considered adequate for a water supply project.
16.     Project risks: Since the physical components of the project
deal primarily with rehabilitating existing facilities, there are
no unusual risks. No irreversible environmental impacts are
expected and protection of water sources is included in the project.
17.     A major risk to the project could stem from inadequate
maintenance of the rehabilitated facilities. Therefore, as part of
project preparation, the water companies conducted an asset
inventory and will produce operation and maintenance guidelines to
ensure adequate budgetary allocation not only for routine
operations but also for preventive maintenance which has not been
performed since the facilities were constructed.
18.     Another risk to project sustainability could be inadequate
incentives to improve financial performance. Therefore, the project
proposes a number of measures to be undertaken before and during
project implementation. These include training field and office
personnel, improving the billing, collection and customer
management systems, introducing performance contracts between the
provincial governments and the water supply companies, and public
performance audits of all water supply companies by an independent
agency. Collaboration with a reputable international water systems
operator has been initiated to assist with some of these tasks.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending September 19, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Assessment
The Water Supply Project is allocated an environmental category B.
Water supply improvements would be located mainly within existing
Water Supply Companies plants and rights-of-way and the
environmental impacts essentially occurring during construction
would be small in scale, reversible, and with minor resettlement.
Negative impacts would include the acquisition of cultivated land,
demolition of structures and inconvenience for the residents during
construction. To ameliorate these effects, the project includes
environmental monitoring, which continue during implementation.
Three cities, Hanoi, Haiphong and Danang, would increase the use of
existing allocated water sources remaining within the limits of
sustainable yields. The fourth component, Quang Ninh, would use
water from a dam designed to provide water to Halong City and Cam
Pha, currently nearing completion. Studies to confirm safety of the
dam, protect water sources and identify ways for reducing non-
revenue water are being financed under the project. Because of
existing incomplete coverage in each city, the increased piped
water supply would displace water presently being obtained from
non-piped sources by households without access to the piped system
or those not receiving their full requirement from the system.
Thus, there will be no net addition to the total water consumed in
the cities. A proposed second water supply project would
significantly increase water production. However, before such
expansion, the Sanitation Project presently under preparation in
the same cities with IDA assistance would upgrade the sewerage and
drainage networks and management of wastewater.
- 5 -



