Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12731-EE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
APRIL 14, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENI
Currency Unit - Kroon
US$1 = 13 Kroon (as of November 1993)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADT  -        Average Daily Traffic
EEK   -      Estonian Kroon
ERA   -       The Estonian Road Administration
FSU   -      The Former Soviet Union
ICB   -       International Competitive Bidding
LCB   -       Local Competitive Bidding
MTC  -       The Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPU   -       Net Present Value
ntkm   -      net ton-km
PMS   -       Pavement Management System
PRA   -       Private Road Associations
RUR   -      Russian Ruble
VPD   -      Vehicles per day
ESTONIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   .................................
CHAPTER
I.     ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ....1..... 
A. Economic Overview ............. ..  .................                                 1
B. Overview of the Transport Sector  ............................                        I
H.   THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR ...............................                                      3
A. The Highway Network ...................................                               3
B. Road Safety ..........................................                                4
C. Highway Organization  ...................................                             5
D. Highway Planning and Expenditures  ..........................                         8
E. Design and Construction ..................................                           10
F. Environmental Procedures and Issues ..........................                       10
m.    THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY   ....................                                 11
A. Bank Lending to Estonia .11
B. Country Assistance Strategy.                                                         11
C. Lessons learned in the Highway Subsector .......................                     11
D. Highway Sector Strategy ..................................                           12
E. Government Attitude Toward the Highway Sector ..................                     14
IV.    THE PROJECT             .....................            .....................           15
A. Project Objectives ....... ............                 ...................           15
B. Project Description  .....................................                           15
C. Cost Estimates and Financing .............          ..        ................       19
D. Implementation                                 ..                                    20
E. Status of Cofinancing        ..................           ..................         21
F. Procurement                                  ..                                      21
G. Disbursements  ....... ............                  .....................           24
H. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing  ..........         ..        ..............      25
I. Project Supervision ......................................                           26
J. Environmental Aspects  ...................................                           26
V.     PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY   .......                        ........    27
A. Project Benefits  .......................................                            27
B. Project Risks  .........................................                             27
C. Project Sustainability .....................................   28
VI.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION   .......                          ...............         29
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by rocpients only in thc performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banks authorization.l



Annexes
Annex A       Overview of the Transport Sector      ..........................    30
Annex B       Organization Chart of the Estonian Road Administration (ERA) .... ...    39
Annex C      Summary of Economic Analysis of Overlay Road Sections ....    ......    40
Annex D       Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan ....................    42
Annex E       Project Implementation Schedule and Monitorable Performance Indicators  44
Annex F    Procurement Arrangements ..........................  46
Annex G      Procurement Plan and Schedule .........................                 47
Annex H       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  .......................           48
Annex I      Supervision Plan  .........................    49
Annex J       Contents of Implementation Volume ........................             50
Map          IBRD 25466



-i-
ESOMNIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Sunmara
Borrower:               Republic of Estonia
Beefldl  :              'MThe Estonian Road Administration (ERA)
Amoant:                 US$12.0 million equivalent
Tema:                   Fifteen years, including five year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Relendlng Tern:         Not applicable
Project
ObJectives:             The broad objectives are to assist in preserving the Estonian road
network, thereby avoiding the need for costly rehabilitation or
reconstruction at a later date, and to improve the efficiency of Estonia's
road maintenance program for the future. The specific objectives
include: (i) the expansion of ERA's program of periodic maintenance
during the next two years; (ii) the introduction of cost-benefit analysis
techniques and new research into ERA's maintenance planning to make
its operations more efficient; and (iii) promoting the development of a
competitive road construction industry for road maintenance and
construction.
Project
DeKcription:            The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) Periodic Road Maintenance: Surface dressing of about 2700 km and
surface overlays of about 200 km of roads during a two year period.
(b) Technical Services: (i) Research to determine the most cost
effective materials and methods to be used in the maintenance program
and the adequacy of existing equipment used to process materials; (ii)
training for road construction industry personnel in contracting
procedures, business administration and project management; (iii)
introduction of a Pavement Management System (PMS) to assure the
optimal selection and timing of pavement treatments; (iv) a study to
classify public and private roads and to determine the most appropriate
institutions, public or private, to be responsible for their maintenance at
an appropriate service level; (v) assistance in developing financing
mechanisms for ERA; (vi) development of a Road Safety Plan; (vii)
training of ERA personnel in cost accounting, cost benefit analysis and
procurement; and (viii) assistance in detailed design of project
components and in work supervision.



-ii-
Benefits & Rsks:        Beneflts: The project would approximately double ERA's capacity to
carry out periodic highway maintenance of Estonia's public road network
during a two year period (1994-1995), thus prolonging the life of the
highway system and avoiding costly rehabilitation. This would also
reduce vehicle operating maintenance and costs. An additional project
benefit would be the experience that would be gained by the private
construction industry in carrying out road maintenance work on a
competitive basis. The technical assistance and training component is
expected to improve cost-effectiveness in future highway maintenance
through the use of cost-benefit analysis to determine pavement
management strategies, through competitive contracting and through
physical testing procedures as a basis for optimizing design standards and
assuring appropriate quality of work and materials. The project would
also improve road safety.
BI1ka: The two major risks to the project are the availability of local
financing and the inexperience of ERA and the local construction
industry with competitive bidding procedures. Concerning local
financing, the Government's economic performance to date provides a
basis for optimism that it would be able to continue to maintain its
contribution to ERA's budget. Assurances were obtained that
Government will take all necessary measures to make budgetary
resources available to ERA at the 1993 level, adjusted for inflation.
Concerning the inexperience in competitive bidding procedures,
procurement specialists assisted ERA during project preparation so that
the bidding process gets off to a good start and further training is
planned for May, 1994. There is also a risk of implementation delay
during the first year because of the introduction of new procurement
procedures and contracting methods. Technical assistance and training to
be provided during project startup is intended to minimize this risk. In
the event of slippage, works not completed in the first two years would
be carried over to the third year. On the whole, project risks appear
minimal because of the relatively simple project design with
implementation to be carried out by an established agency with
demonstrated competence.



-iii-
Estimated Project Cost:'                         (USS million)
Local         Foreign         Total
Road Maintenance                     6.84          12.46           19.30
Technical Services                    -             2.40           2.40
Contingencies                       1.03           2.23            3.26
TOTAL                                7.87          17.09           24.96
(US$ million)
1inancing Plan:2
World Bank                           0.66          11.34           12.00
Government of Estonia                7.21           3.72           10.93
Finland                              0.00           1.09            1.09
Denmark                              0.00           0.41            0.41
Sweden                               0.00           0.53           0.53
TOTAL                                7.87          17.09           24.96
(US$ million)
Estimated Disbursanents:
IBRD FY                              199           1               1997
Annual                               5.0            5.0             2.0
Cumulative                           5.0            10.0           12.0
Economlc Rate of
Return:                              26%
Poverty Category:                    Not applicable
Environmental Categr:                B
IAII costs are estimated net of duties and taxes.
2 Details are provided in para. 4.27






-1-
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Overview
1.1          In the past three years since Independence, Estonia, a country of 1.6 million people
with per capita income of US$2,750 in 1992, has made enormous strides in the transformation from a
centrally planned to an independent market oriented economy. Its small economy with few natural
resources has been severely distorted by a half a century of central planning and heavy dependence on
the FSU, which accounted for about 90% of its trade. To overcome major structural problems of the
economy, far-reaching economic reforms have been introduced. After initial and expected difficulties
experienced in 1991 and 1992 which led to high inflation and sharp contraction of real GDP,
Estonia's reform has already begun to show major improvements. The economic decline appears to
have been halted in 1993, and GDP is expected to reach a positive growth rate of about 5-6% in
1994. The annual inflation rate was substantially curbed to about 36% during 1993, while
unemployment was kept below 5% of the labor force. The currency introduced in mid-1992, the
kroon, has remained convertible, while foreign exchange reserves have more than tripled. A major
transformation was accomplished in foreign trade, with an export increase of 30% in 1993, while the
share of foreign trade with FSU countries fell to about 32%. Estonia still faces, however, a difficult
reform agenda to complete the transition process to a sustainable and growing market-based economy.
It will be particularly important for the Government to stimulate the development process by
completing the transition in a manner that will make the country even more attractive to both local
and foreign investors.
1.2          The Bank's overall objective is to support Estonia's efforts to accelerate structural
reforms and to undertake efficient investments in high priority sectors. This objective will be pursued
through a combination of lending operations, analytical sector work, and aid coordination. It is now
appropriate for the Bank to support Estonia' transport infrastructure, since the economy is at a stage
in the transition process where substantial public investments may be required to overcome the
backlog of deferred maintenance and to reorient the infrastructure sector to meet new demands of
production and trade. Analytical work as well as lending operations would assist the Government in
formulating and implementing a sound public investment program and in coordinating assistance from
other sources. Transport sector infrastructure and privatization will remain priority areas.
B. Overview of the Transport Sector
1.3          Estonia's transport infrastructure is basically adequate, but suffers from low levels of
maintenance and from low energy efficiency. Major expenditures on maintenance and rehabilitation
are thus required to prevent further deterioration of the capital stock, to avoid the need for costly
reconstruction later, and to increase energy efficiency. In view of the environmental degradation in
several areas in Estonia, substantial infrastructure and urban investments will be required to address
environmental problems. For large infrastructure investments, a regional approach will be required to
prevent duplication of capacity and resource misallocation. The need for coordination is particularly
great in areas such as pipelines, specialized port facilities (e.g. oil terminals), and international
highways, most notably the Via Baltica. A more extensive overview of the transport sector was



-2-
included as Chapter 8 in the World Bank report entitled "Estonia - The Transition to a Market
Economy", published in March 1993. The substance of that chapter has been updated and included in
this report as Annex A.



-3-
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A. The Highway Network
2.1          Public Roads, The total national road network in Estonia is 14,797 km (see Table
2.1), of which 54 percent are paved. The national road network is divided into main roads (1195
km), basic roads (2618 kIm) and local roads (10,984 kim). The main roads include 60 km of four lane
highway serving the highest density routes. The system includes 829 bridges, 13 of which are
wooden.
Table 2.1: Estonian National Road Network
ITyp of              Paved          |         Gravel                   Total
Road_         __          _      j _   ___
km        percent       km         percent             Ian
Main           1195        100           0           0                1195
Basic          2491         95          127          5                2618
Local          4357         40         6627          60               10984
TO}TAL         8043         54         6754          46               14797
T he main roads connect Estonia's principal cities of Tallin, Narva, Parnu and Tartu as well as these
cities and Estonia's borders. The basic road network connects the secondary cities to the main road
network and to each other. Highways that pass through towns and cities are considered part of the
municipal street network. The paved roads in the public road network have the following types of
surfaces:
Asphalt-concrete    -      2728 km
Bitumen-gravel      -      4140 km
Ash-concrete        -      927 km
Other light types   -      248 km
2.2          Traffic, The average daily traffic for the main roads for 1993 is based on spot traffic
counts. The ADT range from 15,000 vehicles per day near Tallin, 8,000 to 12,000 vpd on the
Tallin-Parnu and Tallin-Narva routes and as low as 900 vehicles per day on main roads traffic in the
southern part of the country. Traffic figures are generally lower for the basic roads, and traffic is
very light for most of the local roads. A map showing Estonia's main and basic roads and their
average daily traffic is attached.
2.3          Other roads, There are estimated to be 14,877 km of other roads not included in the
national road network, most of which have gravel surfaces. Many of these roads were the
responsibility of state enterprises, farms, cooperatives, but most of them have now become the
responsibility of local governments that in many cases lack the financial and technical capacity to



-4-
maintain them. The issues related to the maintenance of these roads have not yet been addressed, and
even the basic information regarding their location, lengths, and conditions is not well established.
2.4          Adequacy of the Road Network. The road density is 0.33 km per sq kn, which
compares favorably with Nordic countries (0.22 to 0.27). In relation to population, the density is 50
to 75 percent that of the Nordic countries, but per capita car ownership is only about one-third as
high despite quite rapid growth since 1980 (see Table 2.2). Therefore, the overall road density
appears to be adequate.
Table 2.2: Number of Passenger Cars
Year            |         Total (000)              Per 1,000 inhabitants
1980                         123.4                          83
1985            T            172.8                         112
1989            1           221.1            1             140
2.5          Road Conditions, Prior to 1990, roads were generally maintained in good condition
in spite of the use of materials (bitumen, aggregate) of dubious quality and technically inferior
equipment. The average life of pavements given normal periodic surface dressing maintenance on
main and basic roads was calculated by ERA for each type of surface to be as follows before repaving
is required:
IypL                        Duration
Asphalt - concrete         9.8 years
Bitumen - gravel           20.2 years
Ash - concrete             7.0 years
These figures do not reflect traffic volumes, but they do give an indication of Estonia's actual
experience with the existing road network.
2.6           Budget constraints starting in 1990 and accelerating through 1993 required ERA to cut
back on its pavement maintenance operations. The strategy that it adopted was to virtually eliminate
new construction and paving operations, to cut back on surface overlays, and to maintain the
maximum possible surface dressings and spot repairs. This strategy has kept most pavement surfaces
in reasonably good condition, but with an increase in roughness and the progression of rutting for the
more heavily travelled parts of the road network. It has also built up a considerable backlog of
maintenance, estimated by ERA to be about 1,000 km of surface dressings and 500 km of overlays
that will need to be done in addition to the annual requirements that will accrue in each future year.
B. Road Safety
2.7          The road safety situation in Estonia is poor by international standards, with eleven
deaths per 10,000 vehicles in 1991. Information on traffic accidents is difficult to compare with other
countries, however, since minor accidents without personal injuries are often not recorded. In 1992,



-5-
the number of recorded accidents declined from 1,910 the previous year to 1,120 due to the decline in
economic activity and the shortages and increased cost of fuel. Road accidents will likely increme u
economic activity accelerates unless road safety is radically improved.
Table 2.3: Traffic Accidents on Public Roads and Streets
|  All accidents with Personal         Fatalities
Injuries l
1984-87 average                  1600                         200
1986-90 average                  1770                         300
1988                        1650                         250
1989                        1940                         310
1990                        2100                         435
1991                        1910                         490
1992                        1120                         280
2.8          Road safety has been the responsibility of a Road Safety Department in the MTC.
However, this unit had only a limited ability to coordinate the other Government institutions involved
in road safety such as the police, ERA and the municipalities. The Government has now transferred
overall responsibility for road safety to a newly established Road Safety Council under the Minister of
Transport and Communications and with representation from all of the concerned parties. This new
structure should help to provide policy guidance, oversight and coordination to Estonia's road safety
program.
2.9          During the past year, the Government began preparation of Road Safety Sector Plans
outlining steps needed to improve road safety. However, work on the plans was halted due to a lack
of funds for implementation. The development of a Road Safety Plan, included in this project, is
very timely and a high priority.
C. Highway Organization
2.10         The Road Law of Estonia was enacted by the Parliament on December 1, 1991,
shortly after Estonia's declaration of independence from the Soviet Union on August 20, 1991. This
law established a Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) with responsibility for transport
policy and administration, including establishing and administering transport licenses, permits and
regulations; developing policies on taxation, subsidies and prices; determining public expenditure
priorities; administering the roads budget and advising on budget allocations for the aviation and
maritime administration; privatizing state transport enterprises; and cooperating with other countries
in the region to promote Estonia's transport potential.
2.11         The Estonian Road Administration (ERA), established on November 1, 1990 as the
result of a reorganization of the former Republican Association "Eesti Maanteed', operates as a semi-



autonomous governmentl organization under the policy direction of the MTC. ERA receives its
budget from the Ministry of Finance. It has responsibility for summer and winter maintenance of
Estonia's public road network and for the construction of additions to it. Its organizational structure
includes a Directorate responsible for planning and administering the road construction and
maintenance program and fifteen District Road Offices, which carry out the actual maintenance and
construction activities on a force account basis supplemented by contracted work performed by private
or state-owned construction companies (see Annex B). The ERA is audited regularly by the State
Control of Estonia. The most recent audit was completed August 31, 1993 for the period July 1,
1992 to June 30, 1993.
2.12         Coordination between the Directorate and the District Offices is facilitated by a Board
of Administration consisting of the five senior managers of the Directorate and the heads of each of
the fifteen District Offices. The Board meets periodically to decide on ERA's overall work program,
the purchase of major machinery, and the allocation of ERA's construction budget.
2.13         Each District Office has an equipment pool, a storage and spare parts depot and an
equipment repair facility. The District Offices select their own priorities for periodic maintenance
operations subject to review by the Directorate. Also, the choice of the materials mix for different
road surface treatments must conform to guidelines issued by the Directorate based on research
carried out by the Technical Center. Some District Offices operate asphalt mixing plants, whose
output is shared with other nearby District offices. During the past two years, because of the severe
budget constraints District Offices have been encouraged to undertake contract work for other public
or private entities. The profit from such work is then allocated on the following basis:
Road Fund (i.e. Finance Ministry)       40%
Directorate                             10%
Social Development at District level    20%
Supplemental pay to the
District Office employees               30%
2.14         District Offices may employ private contractors or state companies on a contract
basis, and the Directorate also does so for major work on the main or basic road network. About 7.5
percent of the ERA budget was spent on contracted work in 1992.
2.15         The previous road administration included three organizations for rehabilitation and
construction of roads and one for bridges. The 1990 reorganization set up these organizations as
independent companies that obtain work on a contract basis from other state or private entities. One
of these companies has been leased to a private entrepreneur, one has been liquidated, and two still
operate as state-owned companies.
2.16         In addition to these road construction companies, about ten private construction
companies have been organized by private entrepreneurs. They are all small and have limited
equipment and capital, but offer a potential for development into a privately operated, competitive
road construction industry. Some have already obtained contract work from ERA, but ERA's
constrained budget makes it difficult to allocate funds for other than ERA's own force account
activities.



-7-
2.17         Euipment. The ERA and its District Offices have the following major equipment in
operating condition:
Graders             -      123
Excavators          -      53
Front-end loaders   -      74
Bulldozers          -      57
Asphalt pavers      -       7
Also, they have numerous trucks and other transport vehicles, rollers, tractors, bitumen spreaders,
sand spreaders, and crushers. However, most of this equipment is old and of poor design, requiring
extensive maintenance and in some cases providing poor results.
2.18         ERA also has a number of asphalt mixing plants, some of which are old plants of
Russian manufacture that ERA considers obsolete. However, seven asphalt mixing plants are of East
German manufacture and have been obtained during the past ten years. ERA considers them to be of
basically sound design and construction, but poor burners and temperature controls reduce efficiency
and do not assure good quality output. They also do not have adequate filters to control emission of
fumes during operation at a level acceptable under Estonia's environmental standards. ERA believes
that these plants can be renovated to be made both operationally and environmentally acceptable at a
reasonable cost. ERA also believes that it can improve the quality of its periodic maintenance work by
using more technologically advanced paving machines, and by crushers that produce aggregates of
better shape and quality.
2.19         Personnel ERA's total current employment level is 2902, including 160 engineers.
63 of ERA's staff are in the Directorate, 29 in the Technical Center, and the balance in the District
Offices. Total employment has declined from 3,358 in January 1992 primarily through attrition,
although the number of engineers has increased from 141 at that time to the present level of 160.
The average age of its personnel is above 50 years.
2.20         ERA personnel'appear to be competent in both engineering skills and management,
judging from the quality of the past maintenance operations. The quantity of trained engineers for the
size of the operation, exceeds the number of engineers per kilometer in most other countries.
However, the engineering staff has been isolated from the advances in road techniques developed in
the Western economies over the past forty years. Also, there is a general lack of awareness on the
part of ERA's staff of the value of and techniques for using cost analysis as a basis for makdng
choices regarding pavement management strategies, materials and equipment.
2.21         Performance Level. On the whole, ERA has performed competently in the past
judging from the condition of the road networks as well as by its level of technical skills and
knowledge, and appears to operate at a high level of professionalism. The constraints on its
performance have been those imposed by a restrictive budget during the past several years, by ERA's
lack of access to modern highway maintenance technology, and by the need to rely on Russian raw
materials and equipment, which were generally of poor quality. Also, ERA is not familiar with the
use of the World Bank lending procedures and procurement guidelines.



-8-
D. Highway Planning and Exgenditures
2.22         Planning and Elxenditure Procedures. Prior to independence, the predecessor
organization to the ERA obtained its budget from the central government in Moscow. Traditionally
20 year road development programs were prepared and updated every five years. Since
independence, budgets are requested through the MTC to the Ministry of Finance on an annual basis.
Major projects are submitted with a separate justification and reviewed in the context of an overall
Public Expenditure Program. Once approved by the Parliament, the annual budget is released in
quarterly (and sometimes monthly) tranches based on the actual collection of revenues during the
year. This procedure is necessitated by the fact that the Estonian Kroon (EEK), which was
introduced in June 1992, is controlled by a currency board arrangement under which kroons are only
issued against net inflows of hard currency. This system, which is excellent for exercising fiscal and
monetary discipline, nevertheless makes it difficult for ERA to plan and execute its annual program
since the actual resources available to it are subject to change.
2.23         Another characteristic of the Estonian highway maintenance program is related to the
weather conditions there. The construction season during which bitumen products can be applied for
surface dressings and overlays is generally limited to the May through September period becaue of
the cold climate. Somewhat balancing the summer workload, the winter season requires snow
clearing and salt spreading in order to keep the roads safe and open to traffic. However, this work is
irregular and difficult to plan because of the unpredictability of the snowfall and icing.
2.24         Budget Levels. As mentioned earlier, budgets have been constrained since about 1989
when spending was last at a level that ERA considers to be adequate to carry out the periodic
maintenance schedule necessary to maintain the public road network. The ERA's actual budget for
construction and its conversion into constant 1992 prices, as calculated by ERA, is:
ERA Annual Budget (million)                            l
1988        1989        1990         1991        1992         1993
Current    95 RUR       98 RUR       106 RUR     162 RUR    99 EEK        190 EEK
prices     _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _
Constant    228 EEK     234 EEK     213 EEK      177 EEK     99 EEK       133 EEK
prices 
Thus inflation has caused a reduction in ERA's budget when measured in constant prices to about 57
percent of the 1989 level. Some of this decrease was absorbed by a reduction in real average wages.
At present, the average monthly pay for ERA employees is 1000 EEK per month, equal to about $77,
as public sector wage increases have substantially lagged the rate of inflation. Even the 1989 budget
level appears to be low based on a comparison to international norms. The 1989 budget for ERA's
road maintenance program was about 0.6 percent of Estonia's GDP, compared to about 1.0 percent of
GDP generally required in other countries to maintain the public road network.
2.25         In addition to the construction budget, which includes the operations of ERA's
Technical Center, ERA receives a separate budget allocation (EEK 2.5 million for 1994) for the cost



-9-
of the Directorate itself. This allocation is sufficiently restricted to make unexpected additional costs
such as those relating to the implementation of the proposed Highway Maintenance Project extremely
difficult to accommodate.
2.26         The periodic maintenance and rehabilitation accomplished with the construction budget
allocations have been as follows:
Surface Dressings, Overlays, and Rehabilitation
(km)
1989      1990      1991      1992     1993
: __-____                     _         __  .___                 .19.
Surface dressing (& related      1498      1472      1121      1085      1200
maintenance)
Overlays (inc. some repairs &    337       328       298       31       34
rehabilitation
The relationship between the budgets and the work accomplished was affected by several unusual
factors that must be kept in mind when making projections of future costs and requirements. First,
the real cost of equipment is understated since the budget does not reflect depreciation, and very little
new equipment was purchased during the past several years. Second, bitumen, aggregate and fuel has
been imported and transported from Russia at very subsidized prices. Third, the compression in
wages has now reduced the average cost of labor to a level that is probably not sustainable over the
long run. A possible factor offsetting some of the understated costs of the past several years is that
ERA has maintained its work force without any major reductions, and so there may be some
redundancy in the labor force.
2.27         ERA has received its 1994 construction budget allocation at a level of EEK 263
million. This is a 39 percent increase over the 1993 budget in nominal prices, and represents a slight
increase in constant prices in view of the 1993 inflation rate of 34.5 percent. Because of price
increases of the imported raw materials needed for ERA's maintenance operations, however, it would
only be possible to implement a program of about 1200 km of surface dressing, with no overlays,
without support from the proposed World Bank loan.
2.28         The Government of Estonia is still facing major problems in generating sufficient
revenues to meet the Government's essential expenditure requirements. There is every expectation
that ERA's budget will continue to be constrained for the next several years. Over the longer run,
the Government's policies emphasizing reform, privatization, elimination of subsidies and
encouragement of private investment should lead to an expanding tax base that will lead to increased
Government revenues.
2.29         User's Fees. At the time that ERA was established, the Government also created a
Road Fund, to be financed by a petrol tax. The original intention was that the Road Fund would
accumulate enough resources to finance ERA's entire budget. However, the petrol tax, instituted in
1991, generated only seven percent of ERA's budget in 1993 as the high rate of inflation in 1992
eroded the real value of the funds collected. Therefore it was necessary for the Ministry of Finance
to supplement the Road Fund resources from general revenues. The rate of the petrol tax was



-10-
increased in 1993 after lengthy Parliamentary debate, and petrol tax revenues are expected to be 194
million EEK equal to 74 percent of ERA's budget in 1994. No other user fees are levied at the
national level. The anticipated collection from the increased petrol tax, while a substantial
improvement over 1992, will again not be adequate to cover the full cost of ERA's operations.
However, it would be extremely difficult to increase the petrol tax again in the near term in view of
the weak condition of the economy, the resistance of Parliament to the last increase and the reduced
incomes of most Estonians. It is the Government's intention, however, over the longer run to levy
petrol taxes or other users' fees at a level that will meet ERA's needs without resort to general
revenues.
E. Design and Construction
2.30         The Estonian design manual classifies the roads into five categories defined on the
basis of traffic volume only. The design standards are similar to those used by the former Soviet
Union, but are presently under review by the ERA. The geometric standards of the existing roads are
generally adequate although some roads have narrow carriageways that will need to be widened when
road traffic, especially heavy vehicles, increases. Much of the main and basic road network has
gravel shoulders, which over time wIll need to be improved.
2.31         Materials used in the construction and maintenance of the road network have been
almost entirely from either Russian or Estonia sources. Bitumen used in the asphalt concrete overlays
has been from Russia, with varying quality, often considerably below Western standards. The
Russian bitumen is superior to the oil shale bitumen available within Estonia, whose use is limited to
resealing operations. Aggregate available in Estonia is produced from limestone, which has poor
characteristics, thereby reducing the lifetime of the seals. Consequently, limestone aggregate can only
be used for low traffic roads. Russian granite aggregate is basically of good quality but is more
expensive, is usually not available in grades as required for direct manufacturing of asphalt concrete,
and requires cleaning.
F. Environmental Procedures and Issues
2.32         Estonia's environmental standards which became effective on January 1, 1992,
establish limits for the discharge of pollutants. The standards apply to the operation of all private and
public enterprises. The operation of ERA's asphalt mixing plants, used to produce asphalt-concrete
for pavement overlays, has been observed to generate noxious fumes at levels that exceed the
established norms, since these plants are not equipped with emission controls. The balance of ERA's
periodic maintenance operations do not contribute to environmental degradation since this work
applies to already existing structures.



-1 1-
m. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY
A. Bank Lending to Estonia
3.1          This project would be the second lending operation with Estonia since it became a
member of the Bank in June 1992. The first project, a Rehabilitation Loan (Ln. 35220) for US$30
million equivalent to finance imports of materials, spareparts and equipment, including spare parts for
vehicles and buses, was approved in October 1992. Loan processing and implementation has
proceeded expeditiously, and the loan proceeds are now almost fully committed with US$11 million
still to be disbursed as of January 1994. The Bank is also administering a US$20 million JEXIM loan
for critical imports.
B. Country Assistance Strategy
3.2          The Bank's overall objective is to support Estonia's efforts to accelerate structural
reforms and to promote efficient investments in high priority sectors in order to complete its transition
to a market economy, accelerate the rate of economic growth and increase efficiency. This will
require strengthening key institutions such as banks; accelerating privatization; extending the openness
of the policy environment; rehabilitating and re-orienting its physical infrastructure; and extending the
social safety net and the efficient delivery of social services. This cannot and need not be done at the
expense of the stabilization effort; in fact, many efficiency measures such as infrastructure cost
recovery are likely to be revenue enhancing. The Bank's strategy is to support the Government's
efforts to achieve these goals through activities that can be grouped under three headings: (a) support
for private investment, (b) support for infrastructure development, and (c) support for the
development of the social safety net and social services. Assistance for infrastructure developments is
critical since the economy is now at a stage in the transition process where substantial public
investment will be required to (a) overcome the bacldog of deferred maintenance that has built up in
recent years because of budgetary constraints (b) reorient transport and other infrastructure to meet
the demands of production and trade with the West as well as the East; and (c) increase the energy
efficiency of all sectors. The proposed project would support these objectives.
3.3          The Bank is assisting the government in formulating and implementing a sound public
investment program and in coordinating assistance from other sources. Energy, transport, housing
and municipal waste water management/environment all need support, with primary emphasis on
maintenance and overcoming critical bottlenecks. In all sectors, cost recovery and commercial
operation of services would be strongly emphasized.
C. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Projects in the Highway Subsector
3.4          The proposed project will be the first highway loan to Estonia. However, the Bank
has had considerable experience in financing highway projects in other parts of the world, including
Eastern Europe, and recently appraised a highway rehabilitation and maintenance project in the
Russian Federation.
3.5          Much of the Bank's lending for highway operations was for road construction up to
about 1980. However, the road building boom of the 1960's and 1970's created an infrastructure that



-12-
began to rapidly deteriorate in the late 1970s. Road networks had expanded much faster than the
corresponding maintenance budgets and institutional capacities. Traffic was also increasing at a
higher than projected rate, and axle loads often exceeded the design capacity of pavements. The
serious magnitude of the problem was demonstrated in a policy study undertaken by the World Bank
in 1987.3 The study, which analyzed the extent of deterioration of inter-urban main road networks in
85 countries receiving highway subsector assistance from the Bank (including IDA), came to some
startling conclusions. A quarter of the paved roads outside urban areas required reconstruction in the
mid-1980s, as did a third of unpaved roads. In addition, another 40 percent of the paved roads of
these countries required strengthening. The estimated cost of restoring these roads was US$90
billion. If the countries did not improve their management of roads, the eventual cost could easily
increase by two or three times, and the cost to road users would rise even more.
3.6          Concerned at the ever-growing backlog of road maintenance in borrowing countries,
the Bank adopted many of the recommendations of the above policy study in its sector work and
investment projects. These included: (a) improvement in road planning and programming, including
more reliable information and management methods and the application of economic criteria, (b)
strengthening and reform of institutional performance, particularly by contracting out more
maintenance activities to the private sector, (c) reallocation of resources to balance construction and
maintenance with increased allocation of expenditures to reduce the maintenance backlog, and (d)
improving the financing of roads, particularly by the adoption of rational road user charge systems.
Lending for roads was to be conditional on countries having an appropriate balance of expenditure
among new construction, restoration and maintenance, depending on the level of road deterioration.
D. Highway Sector Strategy for Estonia
3.7          The recommendation of the Bank's Road Deterioration Policy Paper are reflected in
the Estonian government's strategy for the highway subsector. The strategy includes: (a) clearing the
backlog of maintenance on the national highway network; (b) the development of a competitive
contracting industry for both large and small maintenance works; (c) improved road planning,
including the development of a pavement management system; and (d) strengthening the institutional
performance of ERA and district road offices. Concerning financing for the highway subsector,
considerable progress has already been made with the introduction of the Road Fund and the petrol
tax in 1991, although it is still not adequate to cover the full cost of ERA's operations (para 2.29).
There is scope to strengthen the Road fund through the introduction of other user charges such as
vehicle registration fees and transport licenses. During negotiations, assurances will be sought (and
reflected in the minutes of negotiations) that the project will provide the necessary information and
advice to the government to help introduce such user charges.
3.8          Estonia has a road network that is adequate to meet the country's immediate needs.
Road maintenance has been adequate in the past, but budget constraints during the past five years
have reduced maintenance activities below the levels needed to preserve a functional road system.
Also, some of the materials used in highway maintenance were of inferior quality, construction and
maintenance equipment is old and technically inferior, and operational systems have not kept up with
improved methods now in use in most developed countries. The transition from an operation run
3World Bank Policy Study. Road Deterioration in Developing Countries: Causes and
Remedies 1988.



-13-
entirely as a state enterprise to private contracting has begun, but is still in its infancy. Lessons
learned from the implementation of the first project would benefit future lending operations in the
subsector.
3.9          The challenge for Estonia is to increase its highway maintenance operations on an
urgent basis before pavement deterioration proceeds to the point where costly rehabilitation is
required, and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its highway maintenance operation for the
future. This will require a higher level of spending on periodic maintenance in the short run,
combined with the use of better materials, equipment and operational procedures including cost
analysis as a basis for decision-making. It also includes the encouragement of a private sector
construction industry that can carry out road maintenance and construction on a competitive basis.
3.10         The Bank's strategy for the highway subsector is to assist the Government in meeting
this challenge through a lending operation that would include support for expanded maintenance
operations for a limited period of time and for improvements in operational procedures and
techniques. The Government is expected to be able to mobilize resources to meet its recurrent
maintenance needs by the end of the proposed Project, and future lending in the road transport sector
would be directed to road strengthening, rehabilitation and new construction. This lending operation
would also include assistance provided by several bilateral donors that are providing, or are planning
to provide, technical assistance and training in support of these objectives. The Bank's lending
operation would help to coordinate those various donor activities in the subsector. In the longer run,
the Bank's strategy would include assistance to expand the road network's capacity as the need for
this expansion becomes more apparent and if requested to do so by the Government. Over the next
two years, both within the context of the proposed project and through a planned transport sector
study, the Bank and Government will further analyze the following recommended strategies for roads
and highways:
Table 3.1: Recommended Strategies - Roads and Highways
*     Preserve existing road network
*     Ensure adequate funding for road maintenance
*     Give priority to road maintenance rather than road construction
*     Improve the quality of road maintenance works
*     Develop a cost-effective road maintenance strategy
*     Establish a competitive road contracting industry
*     Introduce competitive bidding for road works
*     Introduce a contract management and supervision system
*     Improve highway subsector planning and evaluation of projects
*     Design and implement a bridge rehabilitation program
*     Review the classification and maintenance of non-public roads
*     Review road design standards
*     Enhance training of highway subsector staff
L     Design and implement a road safety program



-14-
E. Govement Attitude Toward Borrowing for the Highway Subsector
3.11         The Government is fully committed to the transition to a sustainable, growing market-
based economy. It recognizes the importance of an adequate infrastructure for its future development
and the key role of the highway network as part of that infrastructure. At the same time, the
Government wants to restrain its foreign borrowing to the minimum in order to limit its future
financial obligations. Therefore, project design of Bank operations should take this viewpoint
carefully into account by limiting the project components to those that are essential to meet the
strategic objectives of the subsector, and should utilize grant financing from other sources to the
maximum extent possible. In the longer run, the Government expects to generate enough revenues
from road user charges to finance the full cost of highway maintenance in Estonia.
3.12         Another consideration in project processing relates to the newly instituted Government
procedure requiring Parliamentary approval after loans are negotiated and signed but prior to project
effectveness. This procedure must be taken into account when planning processing time and the
timing of funding availabilities. The appropriate Parliamentary committees have been advised of the
loan preparations, however, and are therefore expected to give it prompt attention at the appropriate
time.



-15-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1          The objectives of the Highway Maintenance Project are to assist in preserving the
Estonian road network, thereby avoiding costly rehabilitation or reconstruction at a later date, and to
improve the efficiency of Estonia's road maintenance operations for the future. The specific
objectives include:
(i)    The expansion of ERA's program of periodic maintenance during the next two years to permit
surface dressings of 2700km and surface overlays of 200km;
(ii)   The introduction of cost benefit techniques and new research into ERA's maintenance
planning to make its operations more efficient; and
(iii)   Begin the development of a competitive road construction industry that can be utilized for
road maintenance and construction.
4.2          The first objective stated above would help to preserve a functioning transport
network needed to support the development of a vigorous market-based economy in accordance with
the objectives of the Bank's strategy in Estonia. The second and third objectives are consistent with
the Bank's desire to assist in the transformation of a centrally planned economy to one based on cost-
benefit analysis criteria and private sector operations. The project would also serve to identify the
size and scope of future highway maintenance requirements.
B. Project Description
4.3          A Highway Maintenance Loan of US$12 million would help finance a two year
program of urgently needed maintenance work. It would also finance, along with cofinanciers, a
program of assistance to improve the efficiency of Estonia's road maintenance operations. The total
project cost is estimated at US$25.0 million, with US$11.0 million provided by the Government and
US$2.0 million by bilateral donors on a grant basis. The main components of the proposed project
are:
(a)    Periodic Road Maintenance. Surface dressing of about 1200km in the first year and 1500km
in the second year, and surface overlays of about 100km of roads each year for two years,
with at least 70 percent of the overlay work to be carried out on a contact basis.
(b)    Technical Services. This component would include the following elements: (i) research to
determine the most cost effective materials and pavement structures to be used in the
maintenance program; (ii) training for private road construction industry personnel in
contracting procedures, business administration, and project management; (iii) the introduction
of a Pavement Management System (PMS) to assure the optimal selection and timing of
pavement treatments; (iv) a study to classify public and private roads and to determine the
most appropriate institutions, public or private, to be responsible for their maintenance at an
appropriate service level; (v) assistance in developing financing mechanisms for ERA; (vi)
development of a Road Safety Plan; (vii) training for ERA personnel in cost accounting, cost-
benefit analysis and procurement; and (viii) assistance in detailed design of project
components and in work supervision.



-16-
4.4           The selection of the 200km of highways for overlays was made after a survey by ERA
with assistance from consultants of selected sections of the main and basic road network. While the
backlog of overdue overlay work is considerably in excess of 200km, these particular sections were
identified as being the most critical to the operation of the road network. Fifty (50) kilometers of
these roads wil need improvements in the underlying structure or releveling. Also, 85km of the
overlay work will be carried out by using the "mixed-in-place" recycling process in which the old
surface will be milled and reprocessed, mixed with some new materials, and reapplied. This
technique, which will require special machinery, is cost-effective for some road sections where there
is sufficient thickness and quality of existing pavements to permit recycling and in view of the high
cost of new aggregate.
4.5          A separate Economic Rate of Return was calculated for each road segment selected
for overlay treatment, as shown in Annex C. Returns ranged from 12.3 to 63.7 percent, except for
two segments totaling 14.8km in length. The average ERR was calculated at 28.5 percent for entire
component. The two segments with lower rates of return (6.4 and 6.7 percent respectively) are
justified for inclusion because they are located on a main artery that is the principal access to an
economically depressed part of the country, where good access by road is part of the Government's
strategy to improve economic conditions.
4.6           The 2700km of highways to be treated with surface dressings would be selected
annually by the District Offices on the basis of their maintenance plans derived from systematic
annual visual inspections of the roads in their Districts, subject to review by ERA's Directorate.
These choices will be made within the budget allocations for each District as decided by the Board of
Administration, a system that has worked well in the past. The Directorate will inspect the work for
quality, both in progress and after completion. This procedure of inspections and planning will be
augmented by the more regular use of road roughness and deflection surveys and economic cost-
benefit analysis to be introduced through the PMS.
4.7           The use of contractors for about 70 percent of the overlay work represents a
considerable advance over the limited use of contract companies in the past. It would help stimulate
the construction industry by providing income to the successful bidders, which may be either private
or non-subsidized state companies, foreign contractors or joint ventures, although not many foreign
firms are expected to compete due to the small size of the program. ERA would procure all of the
bitumen and aggregate in order to take advantage of quantity discounts, to assure the quality of
materials used, and to relieve the contractors of the financial burden involved. It would also provide
the services of the asphalt mixing plants so that contractors with limited equipment can compete.
Since some of the private contractors do not have appropriate equipment for the work to be
contracted, ERA would make some of its equipment available on a rental basis. Assurances were
obtained to assure equity among all contractors, equipment would be made available for rental to all
potential bidders, including eligible public companies, at the same cost, and information regarding
availability and rental cost would be made public at least 30 days in advance of bid submission dates
(para. 6.1(i)). The overlay work will also be inspected for quality by the Directorate, whether
performed by contract or by the District Offices.
4.8           The proportion of contract work was decided upon after careful consideration of a
number of factors. First, ERA recognizes the value of utilizing contractors, and wants to move in
this direction in view of the potential cost savings that can be expected from competitive contracting
procedures. However, the local industry is small and not fully developed, with a lack of equipment



-17-
and financing to engage in large scale operations. Also, ERA's own workforce is already mobilized,
with a large equipment pool, and in the near term may be able to carry out maintenance work at
lower out-of-pocket costs than contracting would cost. Therefore, the use of contractors for 70
percent of the overlay work is the maximum deemed appropriate during the next two construction
seasons. The experience gained during these two years would provide a basis for judging the cost
and usefulness of force account versus contract operations that ERA should utilize in planning its
future work program and organizational structure. ERA will also experiment with the use of
contractors for applying surface dressings, and will carry out an analysis of its pros and cons as an
input into the work of the Road Network Study.
4.9          The renovation of the asphalt plants needed to implement the overlay work will be
carried out by ERA prior to Project startup, both to improve the quality of the asphalt and to reduce
the emission of fumes to environmentally acceptable levels.
4.10          Research Profram. The research program aims to improve cost-effectiveness in
ERA's operations through the introduction of state-of-the-art highway maintenance technology and to
optimize the utilization of available resources. The program consists largely of transfer of technology
through technical cooperation with the Danish Road Directorate, and by benefitting from technical
investigations and research carried out as part of other Bank-financed projects such as the Russian
Federation Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. The following issues have been
identified and included in the detailed Terms of Reference that have been prepared:
*     Review of the Pavement Design Manual including the technical specifications for
pavement materials, and a review of the design standards and the development of
performance related specifications for indigenous materials such as limestone
aggregate and oil shale bitumen, in order to optimize the technical/economic
utilization of such materials.
-     Review of testing and quality control methods.
e     Identification of optimum pavement strengthening standards for various types of
existing pavements and estimated traffic loading, considering costs, availability and
quality of various materials.
4.11         Training for the Road Construction Industry. A training program will address the
most urgent needs of the evolving private road construction industry as outlined in a Training
Program prepared during project preparation. The training includes bidding, bid evaluation, cost and
quality control and general conditions of contract. On issues such as business administration and
construction management it will be broad-based, and intended as a means to familiarize industry
personnel with the needs of private sector operations. The training would be provided by consultants
through seminars and training sessions held in Estonia for all members of the industry who wish to
participate. Existing training institutions in Estonia will be utilized to the extent possible. The need
for further training would be identified and if possible incorporated in the curricula of existing
training institutions. The main vehicle for the development of the road construction industry,
however, would be contracts let in connection with the maintenance program.
4.12         Pavement Management System. The PMS would be introduced into ERA's operations
during the first two years of the project. Pavement surveys to determine the degree of pavement



-18-
deterioration would be introduced, combined with cost benefit analysis to determine when and by
what method pavement surfaces should be renewed. Consultant support would be provided to assist
ERA in introducing the procedures and training staff in their application. Detailed Terms of Reference
have been prepared for this work.
4.13         Road Network Study. This study would start with the classification of the Estonian
road network, both public and private, to determine the level of use, the users of the roads, the
ownership and who is presently responsible for the maintenance. It would provide recommendations
for possible changes in responsibility for maintenance, including the possibility of the use of private
road associations formed both to finance and manage the local roads used by the members of the
association. Based on the road network determined to be the future responsibility of ERA, the study
would provide the basis for the design of an organizational structure and staff appropriate to that
responsibility, taking into account an appropriate use of contracting based on experience gained in the
early phases of project implementation. The study would then determine the annual budgetary
requirements for an adequate program of highway maintenance, utilizing the findings of the road
classification review, the research program, the PMS, and experience gained from contracting.
Consultants would assist ERA in carrying out this work, in accordance with Terms of Reference that
have been prepared.
4.14         RoadSafdxS .lan, Consultants have undertaken a Road Safety Study during project
preparation and identified problems and weaknesses with regard to existing road safety organizations
and their work, and have proposed an improvement programn. The study includes recommendations
on:
3     organization, coordination and policy making
3     information systems
e     training and education
3     training of drivers
3     public information
*     legislation and law enforcement
*     road infrastructure and traffic management
*     vehicles
4.15         Within the project, a detailed Road Safety Implementation Program will be prepared
by March 31, 1995. The activities then recommended for implementation will be carried out to the
extent that additional financing can be obtained from the cofinanciers.
4.16         Training for ERA. Training would be provided for ERA personnel, both in Estonia
and abroad, as outlined in the Training Plan prepared during project preparation. This would include
courses in procurement including preparation of bidding documents and general conditions of
contract, production planning, pavement technology, quality and cost control, accounting, resource
management and PMS including general cost benefit analysis.
4.17         Deaed Design and Work Supervision. Assistance to ERA in identifying the sections
most in need of overlay, in designing the overlay, in reviewing the specifications, in setting up the
appropriate quality control and cost supervision systems and in overall technical economical project
supervision will be provided by consultants. This component is integrated with above components of
research, training of ERA and of the construction industry and with the introduction of PMS.



-19-
4.18         As mentioned earlier in this report, much of ERA's equipment is old and technically
obsolete, and ERA would like to replace it with better quality, more efficient equipment. However,
decisions in this regard will require a careful study of the equipment pool as well as a clearer
understanding of the eventual scope and style of ERA operations than is possible at this time. On a
short term basis, the existing equipment can carry out the project at an acceptable level, while leaving
all options regarding new equipment in Estonia open for the future. It should be recognized,
however, that there is undoubtedly a substantial requirement for modern road maintenance equipment
that will have to be financed either directly, or indirectly through contract operations, in the future.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.19         The estimated total cost of the project is US$25.0 million, net of taxes and duties,
including physical and price contingencies, with a foreign component of US$17.1 million, equivalent
to 68 percent of total project costs. Costs were estimated on the basis of January 1994 prices and
include contingencies of 10 percent for materials, equipment and civil works. Price contingencies,
amounting to US$1.0 million, are based on average forecasts of inflation for foreign supplied goods
and local costs of 2.5 percent per annum in dollar terms. The detailed estimated cost of the project is
given in detail in Annex D and is summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Estimated Proiect Costs'
US$ million
Project Components        Local      Foreign     Total     Foreign/Total%
1. Road Maintenance
a. Overlays                     2.11       6.54        8.65          76%
b. Surface Dressing             4:73        2         165            56%
SUBTOTAL                          6.84       12.46      19.30          65%
2. Technical Services             -          2.40        2.40         100%
3. Contingencies                  10         2.2         126           o
TOTAL                             7.87       17.09      24.96          68%
1/ All costs are estimated net of duties and taxes.
4.20         Estonia has an 18 percent VAT that has applied to most of ERA's operations in the
past. However, a new provision has been adopted that exempts projects financed by foreign loans
from the VAT.
4.21         The World Bank would finance US$12.0 million or 48 percent of total project costs,
cofinanciers would finance US$2.0 million equivalent and the Government of Estonia would finance
US$11.0 million. The Bank loan would finance the estimated cost of imported bitumen and aggregate
needed for the surface dressing and overlay components, eighty percent of the civil works contracts
for overlays, and the equipment and supplies needed for the research program and the PMS. The
cofinanciers would finance the consultant services and training on a grant basis. The Government
would finance 20 percent of the contracted civil works, all of the local and foreign exchange costs of



-20-
the civil works carried out by ERA District Offices, and any residual material components not able to
be accommodated within the Bank loan amount. In addition, assurances were obtained that the
Government would take all necessary measures to make budgetary resources available to ERA each
year at a level at least as high in real terms as ERA's 1993 budget during the life of the project (para.
6.1 (ii)). This would assure that ERA has adequate budget resources to carry out its other road
maintenance responsibilities not included specifically in the project such as other maintenance of
asphalt and gravel roads, winter maintenance and maintenance of its equipment.
4.22         The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Table 4.2: Project Financing
________ _  Local             Foreign                Total
World Banlk                          0.66                  11.34                 12.00
Government                           7.21                   3.72                 10.93
Finland                              0.0                    1.09                  1.09
Denmark                              0.0                    0.41                  0.41
Sweden                               O O                                          0.53
TOTAL                                7.87                  17.09                 24.96
D. Implementation
4.23         Project implementation would be the responsibility of ERA for all project
components, and Project activities would be carried out by the ERA staff in their regular operational
capacities. ERA has appointed a Project Manager to serve as the primary person responsible for
assuring that the project is implemented efficiently and on schedule, and for coordinating the inputs of
the cofinancing partners and the other Government agencies. He would be assisted by two staff
persons (a translator and an accountant). The operating costs of the Project Manager and his staff,
including telephone calls, office supplies and Project-related travel would be financed from the
Directorate's administrative budget.
4.24         The Project Manager would arrange the procurement training sessions for ERA's
procurement staff, arrange for the appointment of bid evaluation committees, obtain approvals for
terms of reference for the studies included in the project, and arrange for audits of the project
accounts. He would also serve as liaison to the MTC and Ministry of Finance for project activities,
and would be the central point of contact for all of the donors supporting the project. He would be
responsible for assuring that ERA sets targets for the surface dressing program and the surface
overlay work to be carried out by each District Office and provides a budget allocation to the
Districts that is adequate to carry out this work.



-21-
4.25         The project implementation schedule and monitorable performance indicators are
given in Annex E. The schedule is based on the surface work being carried out in the 1994 and 1995
construction seasons, with some disbursements carrying over into 1996, and the training and technical
assistance components extending into 1996.
4.26         In order to meet the 1994 work schedule, initial quantities of aggregate for the 1994
season would need to be purchased from ERA's budget on a reimbursable basis. The total amount of
retroactive financing would be limited to US$1.2 million, or 10 percent of the total Bank loan.
E. Status of Cofinancing
4.27         Cofinanciers identified fbr the project include Finland, Denmark, and Sweden. The
training and consultants services required for the construction industry and the ERA, the PMS, and
the detailed design and work supervision components are planned to be carried out as an extension of
the ongoing cooperation between the Finnish National Road Administration (FinnRa) and the ERA.
FinnRa has committed one third of the required funds, and Finland is presently in the process of
securing the required balance. Denmark has agreed in principle to provide financing for the training
and consultant services required for the research program and is presently processing the financial
request. Sweden is now processing approval for financing the consultants for the Road Network
Study and the Road Safety Study. Norway is planning to provide assistance to ERA for a bridge
management system, used equipment and training for winter operations, which are not included as
part of this project. The Finnish and Swedish cofinanciers participated in the appraisal mission, and
the Bank and the cofinanciers would conduct joint supervision missions during project
implementation.
F. Procurement
4.28         Table 4.3 summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement. The Procurement Arrangements over the project period are shown in
Annex F, while the details of the procurement arrangements are shown in the Procurement Plan and
schedule, Annex G.



-22-
Table 4.3: Summarv of Proposed
Procurement ArranLgements
(USS million equivalent
Procurement Method
Project Element                  ICB    LCB    Other   NBEF       Total
1. Civil Works
a. overlays, recycling, surface dressing               3.9              5.4     9.3
1 (3.1)  __ _ _ _   ____  (3.1)
2. Equipment, goods
a. bitumen & aggregae                          8.4                      4.6     13.0
(8.2)                            (8.2)
b. office, laboratory & field equipment                         0.7              0.7
(0.7)-           (0.7)
3. Consultancies & training                                       2.0              2.0
TOTAL                                             8.4    3.9      2.7      10.0    25.0
__________________________________ (8.2)   (3.1)    (0.7)             (12.0)
Note: Amounts in parenthe  amre financed by IBRD.
a/ Non-Bank Financed, financed by the Government and the cofinanciem
b/ International shopping (0.4), local shopping (0.3).
4.29          Goods, The procurement is designed to assist the development of a construction
industry in Estonia. The major portions of materials to be utilized in the project, bitumen and stone
aggregate, will be imported from abroad and made available to contractors by ERA. These imported
materials will be procured as follows: Bitumen and aggregate at a total value of US$8.4 million will
be procured using ICB. There will be one ICB contract for imported bitumen around US$1.2 million
and one for imported aggregate around US$2.6 million for each construction season. The Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for Goods will be used. All contracts for imported materials estimated
to cost more than US$300,000 equivalent each will be procured through ICB. For the equipment and
supplies, items or groups of items estimated to cost $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different countries, and contracts
for items estimated to cost less than $100,000, up to an aggregate amount of $300,000, may be
awarded under direct negotiations with suppliers. Goods contracts for imported materials will be in
any currency. Local materials, oil-shale bitumen and limestone, will be financed 100% through the
ERA budget and procured in accordance with the Estonian Government procurement regulations.
4.30          The procurement of imported stone aggregate raises some special problems. In the
past, ERA's principal source of imported aggregate has been from Russia. While the Russian granite
would be satisfactory, the Russian crushing, sorting and cleaning process has not been of good
quality, requiring recrushing, sorting and cleaning at an additional cost and for which process ERA
has only a limited capacity. Also, Russian suppliers have required down payments of up to 50
percent, and are generally not able to provide a bank guarantee for contractual delivery. ERA has
tolerated these disadvantages because Russian materials have cost much less than aggregate from other



-23-
sources, even though this in some cases has resulted in lower quality road surfaces. Recently,
however, Russian prices have climbed to about 75 percent of aggregate from alternative known
sources. ERA's approach for the coming year will be to tender under ICB procedures with nornial
conditions of payment, bank guarantees, and material specifications, with the probable result that
previous Russian suppliers may not be able to meet the requirements. However, it is likely that
Estonian materials contractors will set up recrushing and sorting equipment for reprocessing Russian
materials purchased by themselves for resale to ERA. Additionally, other international sources of
supply are now expected to be competitive and able to meet the bidding requirements.
4.31         Local oil-shale bitumen is available from one state owned source only and ERA's
supply contracts are based on quotations and annual negotiations. Local lime stone aggregate is
procured through local shopping by the fifteen Road District Offices. The quality and local transport
costs determines often which supplier is the most favourable. All local materials to be financed by
the Government (US$4.6 million) are, compared to imported materials, very cheap. The
specifications for local materials will be reviewed as part of the research program under this project
in order to determine their optimum utilization.
4.32         Civil worh for overlays will be tendered on the basis that bitumen and aggregate will
be supplied by ERA. Contractors would also have the opportunity to rent equipment from ERA. The
asphalt concrete hot mix would be produced by ERA-owned asphalt plants. The civil works
conracts, mainly comprising transport, placing and compaction of various types and layers of asphalt
concrete, would be procured following the LCB procedure, using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Document, Procurement of Works (Small Contracts). Foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested in these small and scattered works. However, their participation will not be excluded. A
reasonable, adequate competitive local industry exists in Estonia. Sections of roads selected for
overlay would be grouped into suitable contract packages and each contract period would be kept
within one construction season. There would be about six LCB civil works contracts, each contract
value below US$1 million (excluding materials) and the accumulated cost is estimated at US$3.9
million (including contingencies). The surface dressing works will be financed 100% by ERA budget
and done on force-account by the District Offices.
4.33         Prior review would apply to all ICB contracts and LCB contracts above $300,000 and
is expected to include 80 percent of the total value of Bank Loan financed contract works. In any
event the first LCB contract would be subject to prior review. The postqualification of bidders
procedure will be used and qualification criteria will be set out in the bidding documents.
4.34         Bid bonds, performance bonds, and advance payment guarantees might become a
problem as neither contractors nor most of the banks are experienced in this area and because of the
uncertain credit worthiness of the local contractors. Also, the banking system is not well developed.
The postqualification criteria will be adapted to address the above problems. The separate
procurement of materials and works is designed to limit the risk both to the client and the contractors.
This separation is not ideal with regard to the contractor's liability for the end product but it provides
a low risk start for private local contractors with limited resources. It will also be necessary to be
flexible with regard to the acceptance of contract guarantees.
4.35         In order to ensure true competition and promote privatization, any local contractors
engaged in bidding for contract works under the project will be managerially autonomous enterprises
without any subsidies or economic support from the Government.



-24-
4.36             u     service   d rinng would be required for the design and supervision of
road works, procurement, institutional development, training for the Road Construction Industry and
ERA for carrying out various studies under the proposed project. Most of these services will be
provided through bilateral support. However for some small assignments Bank financing will be
required. Consultant selection would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the use of Consultants, August
1981 and the Bank's standard documentation except for consultancies financed by bilateral donors
with other selection procedures. Contracts and documentation for consulting services above
US$50,000 per contract and all Terms of Reference for assignments would be pre-reviewed by the
Bank.
4.37         ERA does not have experience in implementing this type of project. Therefore,
technical assistance (financed by the Finnish Government) would be provided in such areas as
preparation of bidding documents, procurement, project management and supervision.
Assurances will be obtained that ERA will establish a bidding procedure and a bid evaluation
committee (para. 6.1 (iii)).
4.38         Procurement information and reporting would be as follows:
(a)    ERA will record bidding, bid evaluation and awards and will furnish the information
to the Bank; and
(b)   ERA will provide quarterly reports to the Bank indicating (i) project progress and
problems; (ii) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project,
including best estimates for physical and price contingencies; and (iii) revised
schedules of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and
completion time for individual contracts.
4.39         Like other states in the FSU, Estonia has limited experience and tradition of
competitive bidding for the procurement of public goods. Therefore, a Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) is not required at this stage. The Government recognizes the importance
of establishing public procurement regulations as part of its comprehensive program to transform the
economy from a centrally-planned to a market-orientated system based on the development of a
competitive private sector. The Government has requested Bank assistance in this area and work is
planned to begin by March 1994. A CPAR is scheduled for late FY95.
G. Disbursements
4.40         Disbursements are expected to be completed in three years, given the simple project
design, the urgent need for the project and ERA's proven implementation ability. Road segments
have already been identified, a procurement specialist provided by Finland is already assisting ERA,
and preparation of the procurement documents for the first construction season are under way.
Purthermore, the planned program is well within ERA's implementation capacity as demonstrated by
the 1490 km of surface dressing and 337 km of overlays produced in 1989 (para. 2.26). The
expected completion date is December 31, 1996 and the expected closing date is June 30, 1997. An
stimated schedule of disbursements is in Annex H. A Special Account would be established in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of
US$500,000 to cover the Bank's contribution toward contractor payments and for small scale



-25-
procurement and training. All disbursements under the project would be made against standard
documentation except for goods and civil works contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent,
which may be claimed under Statements of Expenditures (SOE's) with related documentation retained
by ERA for review by Bank supervision missions.
Table 4.4: Estimated Disbursements
Category            | Amount of Loan (US$)  Percent of Expenditures
l________________________j  to be Financed
1. Civil works                            2.70                    80%
2. Equipment, materials & supplies        8.10             100% of foreign and
90% of local
3. Unallocated                             1.20
TOTAL                           [          12.0        I                        l
H. Reporting. Accounting and Auditing
4.41         The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-related
accounts will be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Annual financial
statements of Bank-financed components will be prepared and audited in accordance with International
Auditing Guidelines by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and submitted
to the Bank within six months of the close of ERA's financial year. Audits will also be carried out,
at the same time, and for corresponding periods in accordance with Bank guidelines, for SOEs against
which disbursements have been made or are due to be made out of the credit proceeds, and specific
reference to the Special Account (SA) and SOEs will be made in the audit reports accompanying the
financial statements. Agreement was obtained from the Government that each year ERA will submit
to the Bank the auditors report and audited financial statements for the Special Account, project
accounts and SOEs for the preceding fiscal year, not later than six months after the close of such
year. Agreement was also obtained that auditors acceptable to the Bank will be retained by ERA to
review the accounting systems and supporting internal procedures and practices for the special and
project accounts and SOEs, and recommend any needed changes (para. 6.1 (iv)).
4.42         Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by ERA
and sent to the Bank within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will include: (a)
progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key performance
indicators, including number of contracts awarded and length of roads provided with overlay and
surface dressing; and (b) work programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total
project. The main purpose of the reports will be to provide ERA timely and updated information on
implementation of project components, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending actions
and commenting on progress in resolving previous recommendations. ERA will also prepare a
Project Completion Report in accordance with Bank guidelines. Agreement was obtained from the
Government on the preparation of these reports.



-26-
I. Project Supervision
4.43         Three Bank supervision missions, each staffed by a senior highway engineer and such
specialists as may be appropriate for each phase of the project (such as a procurement expert, training
expert, road safety specialist or financial analyst) would be required for the first two years and two
supervision missions in the third year. Each mission will cover one to two weeks. Missions would
assist in project startup, review physical progress, and assist in coordinating the cofinanced elements
of the project. Cofinanciers would be invited to attend all supervision missions. A schedule of
supervision missions is included as Annex H. No formal mid-term review is contemplated in view of
the short project implementation period; however, at the end of the second year of implementation,
progress would be assessed and plans updated for utilization of the remaining uncommitted funds.
J. Enviromnental Aspects
4.44         The periodic maintenance operations included in the project are not expected to
generate any significant environmental problems since work would be done on existing roadways
using mainly imported materials. This project has been designated category B (projects that may have
only specific environmental impact, where more limited environmental analysis is appropriate). A
limited environmental review was carried out by a consultant during project preparation, which
confirmed that the work included in the Project will not create any significant environmental impact.
A training seminar on Environmental Impact Assessments and Mitigations was held with ERA staff by
the environment specialist consultant.



-27-
V. PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Project Benefits
5.1           Periodic Maintenance Component. The project would approximately double ERA's
capacity to carry out periodic highway maintenance of Estonia's public road network during a two-
year period (1994-1995), thus prolonging the life of the highway system and avoiding costly
rehabilitation and reconstruction. Specifically, operations would expand from 2400 km of surface
dressings over two years with no repaving that would be possible with ERA's own resources to 2700
km of surface dressing and 200 km of repaving (including releveling of 50 km). This would also
reduce vehicle operating costs and maintenance. An additional project benefit would be the
experience that would be gained by the private construction industry in carrying out road maintenance
work on a competitive basis.
5.2           The Internal Economic Rate of Return for the periodic maintenance component, which
accounts for 90 percent of total project costs, is 26.0 percent, with 28.5 percent for the overlay
component and 24.4 percent for the surface dressings. If the cost of construction increases by 15
percent, the rate of return is reduced to 23.4 percent and if costs decrease by 15 percent, the return
increases to 29.1 percent. The rates of return were calculated on the basis of a 5 percent rate of
traffic increase each year. If traffic increases at only 2 percent, the rate of return would be reduced
to 20.3 percent; if traffic increases at 8 percent annually, the rate of return would increase to 31.5
percent. If costs increase by 15 percent and traffic increases at only 2 percent annually, the rate of
return would still be an acceptable 17.9 percent.
5.3           Technical Services. This component includes the provision of consultant services,
equipment and training. The effect of these efforts is expected to be improved cost-effectiveness in
future highway maintenance through the use of cost-benefit analysis to determine pavement
management strategies, competitive contracting, and physical testing procedures as a basis for
optimizing design standards and assuring appropriate quality of work and materials. This component,
which accounts for ten percent of total project costs, does not lend itself to conventional economic
rate of return analysis, but typically reductions in maintenance costs through the adoption of similar
techniques in other countries have been substantial.
B. Project Risks
5.4           The two major risks to the project are the availability of local financing and possible
delays caused by the inexperience of ERA and the local construction industry with competitive
bidding procedures. Regarding the first point, the Government could face shortfalls in revenues, or
unexpectedly high rates of inflation could reduce the real effective budget below planned levels.
However, Government economic performance to date provides a basis for optimism that this will not
be the case, and assurances were obtained that all necessary steps would be taken to maintain ERA's
budget at the 1993 levels in real terms.
5.5           Regarding competitive bidding procedures, provision has been made to provide
guidance to ERA by Bank procurement specialists even before Board approval so that the bidding
process gets off to a good start. Familiarization sessions will also be organized for local construction
industry personnel. In the event that delays do occur, work not completed in the first two years
would be carried over to the third year of the Project. On the whole, project risks appear minimal



-28-
because of the relatively simple project design with implementation to be carried out by an established
agency with demonstrated competence.
C. Project Sustainability
5.6           The Government should be able to attain its objective of providing an adequate level
of resources through the Road Fund and users fees as the economy expands and the tax base
increases, which would assure the sustainability of periodic maintenance of the highway network.
The efficiency improvements expected from the technical assistance and training components are
likely to have a sustained impact on ERA's future operations because ERA is a well-established,
stable organization than can be expected to absorb the improved systems into its permanent operating
procedures. Also, the initiated development of the private road construction industry is likely to have
a lasting impact if ERA continues to utilize private companies for carrying out a significant and
increasing portion of its highway maintenance program.



-29-
VI. AGREEMENTS & RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1           During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points:
(i)    The Borrower will make available to bidders the list of equipment available on a
rental basis for work to be carried out by private contractors will be made available to
bidders, with uniform rental rates for all bidders; government-owned companies that
are managerially and legally autonomous may also bid on project work and will be
eligible to rent equipment from ERA's equipment pool at the same rates (para. 4.7).
(ii)   The Government will take all necessary measures to make budgetary resources
available to ERA each year during the life of the project at a level of budget resources
not less than the amount made available in 1993 in real terms (i.e. adjusted as
necessary to compensate for inflation) (para.4.21).
(iii)   The Borrower will establish a bidding procedure and bid evaluation committee (paras.
4.37).
(iv)   Annual financial statements of Bank financed components will be prepared and audited
in accordance with International Auditing Standards by qualified and independant
auditors acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of ERA's financial year. Auditors will also be engaged to review ERA's
accounting systems and recommend any needed changes (para. 4.41).
6.2           There are no special conditions of effectiveness.
6.3           With the agreements reached above, the proposed Highway Maintenance Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$12 million equivalent to the Republic of Estonia at the standard
variable rate for a term of 15 years, including a grace period of five years.



-30-
ANNEX A
ESTONIA
Highway Maintenance Project
Overview of the Transport Sector
1.              Estonia's transport infTastructure is basically adequate (Table 1.1). This is reflected
in the relatively modest traffic volumes, which average 4,000 to 5,000 vehicles per day (vpd) on the
main intercity routes. Volumes on the Tallin-Parnu and Tallin-Narva routes are, however,
considerably higher at 8,000 and 12,000 vpd, respectively; volumes are also higher near major cities.
Rail has lost passenger market share to road transport (cars and buses), and despite the relatively high
density of passenger trains in the vicinity of Tallin (24 pairs of trains per day), the trains carry only
one-third as many transport passengers per km as the buses (Table 1.2).
Table 1: Main Features of Transport Infrastructure
Mode                                1990
National roads (kn)                           14,819
Other roads (kln)                             14,877
Total                                        29,696
Piietines
Gas (kIn)                                       633
Railway
Electrified (kim)                                132
Total (kim)                                    1,026
Airvortsl
Twenty civilian and military airports/airfields. Principal civilian airports are at Tallin, Tartu, Kuressaare, Dardla,
Parnu, plus landing fields at Kihnu, Ruhnu, Purisaar and Viljandi.
Airports-,l
Twenty civilian and military airports/airfields. Principal civilian airports are at Tallin, Tartu, Kuressaare, Dardla,
Parnu, plus landing fields at Kihnu, Ruhnu, Purisaar and Viljandi.
Ports,
a. Maritime Trade Harbor, Tallin. Maximum draft 8.5m. Mainly coal, dry bulk, some containers. RoRo berth. Two
passenger terminals. Road and rail connections.
b. Muuga, Tallin. Maximum draft I1m. Quay length 2,000m, 3 cranes, 30-100 ton capacity. Grain facilities with
storage capacity 300,000 tons, annual capacity 5 million tons. Refrigerated stores, annual capacity 500,000 tons.
Road and rail connections.
c. Kopli Port, Tallin. Maximum draft 7-8m. Quay length 2,100m; capacity 765,000 tons. Oil, coal, timber.
d. Pamu Port, Pamu. Maximum draft 5m. Quay length 500m. Cargo volume of 500,000 TPY, with capacity of Im
TPY.



-31-
2.            Land freight grew relatively slowly (1.5 percent per annum) from 1980 to 1990 and,
unusually, rail's share increased from 58 to 62 percent. With 7.6 million net ton-km (ntkm) per km
of track (1990), average utilization of the rather well equipped 1,000 km rail network is quite high
(compared to 5 million ntkm/km in Poland and 2 to 3 million ntkmJkm for the former Federal
Republic of Germany, Hungary and Yugoslavia). Utilization of the line between Tallin and Narva is
very high, reaching 30 million ntkml/km. Oil-shale transport on the latter section accounts for 40
percent of tons loaded on the system; 50 percent of system loadings are for Russia. Because 80
percent of rail traffic is bulk, it does not seem to be significantly under threat from the liberalizing of
the road transport industry. However, the experience of other reforming socialist countries suggests
that rail volumes will decline significantly over the next few years, partly due to temporary effects
(downturn in national output and disruptions in trade within the rail-intensive former Soviet bloc), but
basically reflecting fundamental and permanent effects of economic restructuring (e.g. closing of
heavy industry and elimination of irrational movements of bulk commodities). Indeed, Estonia's rail
freight in early 1992 is down 40 percent from a year ago. Particularly noteworthy is the decline in
transit traffic between the Latvian port of Riga and northwest Russia crossing the southeast corner of
Estonia (via Valga), which is now only three freight trains per day compared with 15 a year ago.
This partly reflects a decline in Soviet traffic through Riga, and partly a diversion of rail traffic to
retain it on the Latvian system. By late 1992, however, the government reported that rail traffic was
expanding significantly; also, the Estonia Rail system had joined the East European rail association
and was in the process of modifying its operating procedures to conform with European standards.
3.            In terms of vehicles, trucking is still dominated by vehicles operated on "own
account" by nontransport enterprises (81,000 vehicles, mostly small), but the 10,000 trucks operated
by professional "for hire" carriers (still mostly large state enterprises) account for a majority of the
total annual capacity because they are larger and used more intensively. The professional trucking
industry has operated profitably in the past, but like the railways is heavily dependent on traffic to
and from Russia. For at least some large enterprises, road freight between Estonia and Russia is
down 70 percent from a year ago, but this has been largely offset by increased trade between Western
Europe and Russia.
4.            Estonia's three ports at Tallin, served by road and rail, offer a combined capacity of
more than 12 million tons. The new Muuga Port in Tallin is particularly impressive, with easy
maritime and land access, maximum berth draft of 18m, some 2,000m of berths, a bulk facility with
storage capacity of 300,000 tons (annual capacity of 5 million tons), and annual refrigerated cargo
capacity of 500,000 tons. The Finnish oil company Neste, which has obtained distribution rights in
Estonia, is constructing a new oil terminal in the port.
5.            The old and new ports together handled about 4 and 6 million tons of cargo,
respectively, in both 1990 and 1991. More than 90 percent of the foreign trade is transit, mostly
grain imports (60 percent) and coal exports (20 percent). The major origin/destination flows have
been:
*      Grain from the Americas and the EC to Russia (70 percent), Belarus (20 percent), and
Central Asia (12 percent);
*      Coal from Siberia to Western Europe (United Kingdom, Netherlands, Spain and
France);



-32-
*      Metal scrap from Russia, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine to Westem Europe;
*     Cars from Russia to South America.



-33-
Table 2: Freight and Passenger Transport by Mode. 1980-90
Item                       1980           1985           1990
Passenger
Trips (million)
Car                                        356.0          415.1          406.5
Bus                                        345.3          401.9          406.8
Trolleybus                                  61.3            84.8          90.2
Tram                                        78.3           99.6           105.9
Train                                       36.7            32.6          23.1
Air                                          0.5            0.5            0.5
Water                                        1.1             1.3            1.6
Total                                       879.2          1035.8         1035.6
Passenger (kgs, million)
(Public transport)
Rail                                      1582.0          1649.0         1510.0
Bus                                       3658.0         4279.0         4454.0
Water                                       36.0            44.0           48.0
Air                                        990.0          1130.0         1244.0
Total                                      6266.0          7102.0         7256.0
Freight
Tons (million)
Rail                                        27.1            29.2           30.2
Road                                       207.9           214.3         213.9
Sea                                          3.6             4.1           6.0
River                                        0.2             0.3           0.4
Total                                       238.8           247.9          250.5
Ton-km (million)
Rail                                      5919.0          6446.0         6977.0
Road                                      4218.0          4406.0         4761.0
Sea                                       8688.0          9322.0        22380.0
River                                       10.0            12.0            2.0
Air                                         12.0            11.0            8.0
Total                                      18847.0        20197.0        34128.0
ontainer traffic chiefly between the Trans-Siberian Railway and Scandinavia) has been growing, but
still forms a relatively insignificant part of the total cargo flows.
6.           The Estonian Shipping Company, fully government owned at present but with
privatization plans, was until 1991 subordinated to the USSR Ministry of Shipping, which assigned all
its work. The company has a fleet of 82 vessels with a carrying capacity of 500,000 tons (half of this
capacity is accounted for by six bulk carriers only three to five years old). Formerly the vessels were
employed mostly on Soviet/West Africa trades, and are now predominantly chartered to foreign lines



-34-
or engaged in cross-trading (e.g. grain imports to Russia, and a small semi-container liner service for
Scandinavia). Only 5 percent of the cargo is Estonian. The company operates profitably.
7.            Four medium-sized ferries operate between Tallin and Helsinki. ESTLINE, a new
joint venture shipping company with Swedish interests, initiated a RORO ferry service between Tallin
and Stockholm in 1990, and has been given exclusive rights to this service for 10 years. Passenger
and freight traffic is increasing each month, and a second vessel has been added. A Roro service also
operates between Tallin and Kiev.
8.            Institutional and Policy Making Framework. With the exception of some roads and
road transport activities, Estonia's transport sector plans had to be cleared in Moscow during the
Soviet period. Even for roads, the principal funding decisions were in Moscow, and the Estonian
road authority was responsible mostly for implementing annual works programs within parameters set
by Moscow. The country has been carrying out the formidable task of establishing its own fully
independent policy and administrative capacity for all transport modes, and of appointing successors
to the previous regional branches of enterprises in the aviation, maritime, and railways subsectors.
A Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) has been established with responsibility for
transport policy and administration. Its role, defined in statutes, is to promote efficient transport and
set development objectives for the sector, but to refrain from interfering in the day-to-day operations
of the transport enterprises. Its functions and objectives are to:
3      Establish and administer the normative-legal basis for transport operations (licenses,
permits, regulations);
3      Develop policies on taxation, subsidies, and prices;
3      Determine public expenditure priorities, directly administer the roads budget, and
advise on budget allocations for the aviation and maritime administrations;
*      Demonopolize, decentralize, and privatize state transport enterprises;
*      Reach agreements and cooperate with former Soviet authorities and All-Union
enterprises to reorient transport activities toward Estonia's interests and arrange their
gradual transition into Estonia's control; and
*      Cooperate with other countries in the region to promote Estonia's transit potential.
9.            The Estonian Road Administration (ERA) is responsible for the 15,000 km national
road network. Most of the 15,000 km of other roads were previously the responsibility of state
enterprises, farms, and cooperatives, but much of this system has now become the responsibility of
local governments, who face a substantial challenge in developing the necessary financial and
technical capacity to fill this requirement.
10.           Urban public transport is now the responsibility of the municipalities in terms of
policy setting and financing. However, they purchase the transport services from state enterprises
that are still 100 percent owned by the national government, and the national government meets part
of the gap between fare revenues and the cost of the services (which includes a 20 percent 'profit' to
the enterprise).



-35-
11.           Transport Policies. Like all former Soviet bloc countries, Estonia inherited a highly
subsidized and distorted pricing structure in transport. The cost of the transport infrastructure (ports
and roads) has usually not been recovered from users, and many inputs used by transport enterprises
(especially fuel and capital) have been priced well below economic cost. This has been passed through
into less-than-economic charges for transport services. Since independence the government has
correctly adopted the policy that the transport sector apart from local public transport should be self-
financing. While some useful initial actions have been taken in this regard.
12.           Tariffs for road freight and charter passenger services have been liberalized.
Scheduled intercity passenger services, still operated mostly by state enterprises, are subject to
maximum rates. Local rural services and urban public transport services overall cover only half their
costs. Assuming the costings are accurate, this overall result is not unusual compared with the rest of
the world, although the degree of subsidization in Tallin (expected to be 80 percent this year
compared with 56 percent in 1987) is unusually high.
13.           The railways are free to set tariffs, subject to review by MTC whose policy is to fully
recover costs of freight and intercity passengers, but to subsidize commuter services (as is common
throughout the world). The railways established a different rate schedule from that in adjoining
republics. Tariffs were almost tripled in January 1992 but many items of railway cost have increased
at an even faster rate.
14.           Government policy is for road users to cover the costs of the road system, but this
policy is as yet not being fully implemented. The only significant tax paid by road users is an excise
on fuel (both gasoline and diesel) of RUR 154 per ton instituted in March 1991, which translates to
RUR 0.13 per liter. The tax produced RUR 107 million revenue from March 1 to December 31,
1991, or a full-year equivalent of RUR 128 million, compared with maintenance expenditures of 162
RUR for ERA's budget alone. Thus, more funds need to be collected from road users to meet the
full costs of road maintenance. Government is considering increasing road user charges by imposing
vehicle registration fees and transit charges.
15.           Road user taxes are collected and deposited in a Road Fund controlled by the Ministry
of Finance and do not automatically go to meet road maintenance costs. Rather, they are considered
as part of the general revenues. The budget for road maintenance is set independently, and is
disbursed on a monthly or quarterly basis, with downward adjustments if necessary for the Finance
Ministry to stay within its overall deficit spending targets. Thus the full budgeted amount may not
actually be released during the budget year.
16.           Enterprise Reform and Privatization. The government's current plans for the
ownership structure of the sector are as follows:
*      Railways will remain 100 percent government owned.
*      Estonian Shipping Company and Estonian Air will be converted to shareholding
companies, with the government retaining a 50 percent stake.
*      Ports and airports will remain government owned, but with private leasing and
operation allowed for at least part of these facilities.



-36-
*     Road transport should be privatized completely and road infrastructure management
and operation should be privatized when cost-effective.
17.          Estonia has made a good start with privatizing road freight transport. One-quarter of
the companies have had their fleets leased to private companies, and the remaining enterprises have
been converted into state shareholding companies whose shares will be sold off as soon as they have
the legal authority to do so. As noted above, the "own account" truck fleet is four times the "for
hire" fleet. This is typical of former socialist economies and reflects, among other things, the poor
service offered by state trucking enterprises. The very size of this fleet is now a major threat to new
private truck companies in that it is likely to deny them equitable access to large potential markets.
Accordingly, much of this own account fleet, as well as the for hire fleet, needs to be privatized as
quickly as possible. Other promising areas for demonopolization and privatization are local and urban
road passenger services.
18.          The management of railways and other state enterprises, including the ERA, are
generally competent in technical and operational areas, but have little experience in commercial
management, marketing, costing, and economic resource management including equipment
procurement, leasing, and financing.
19.          The Gateway/Transit Function. Estonia is well placed, in terms of both location and
transport infrastructure, to provide transit functions for both east-west and north-south traffic. In the
past, Estonia has been used extensively for traffic to and from the former Soviet Union, and the
Estonian transport system is heavily dependent on this traffic. Previously much of the routing was
directed from Moscow. Estonia will now have to compete on service and cost with other ports in the
region, particularly St. Petersburg and Riga, but also conceivably the Polish ports and ports further
west such as Hamburg and Rotterdam, for trans-Atlantic cargo. Fortunately for Estonia, the three
Tallin ports have several advantages over their closest competitors, St. Petersburg and Riga. They
offer the most modem grain handling facilities and the only major cold stores. Only the new Muuga
Port at Tallin has the area needed to assemble space-consuming loads, and the port has considerable
room for future expansion. Both St. Petersburg and Riga have long access channels with draft
limitations, and St. Petersburg is much more susceptible to ice. Compared with the Polish and
Western European ports, Tallin offers rail connections with the Soviet broad gauge lines and fewer
border crossings (with attendant locomotive and crew changes) than the Western European ports.
Thus, Estonia should be in a good position to attract cargo to and from northwest Russia, and even
beyond that for commodities such as coal and grain.
20.           For transit traffic between Finland and Eastern Europe, the competition (with routes
through Scandinavia) will be tougher, and Estonia's success will depend not only on its own efforts,
but that of its fellow Baltic republics and Poland in improving north-south transport routes and border
crossings (particularly between Lithuania and Poland). There is strong support in the Region for the
further development of a North-South route through the Baltic countries and Poland, starting in Tallin
and ending in Warsaw, called "Via Baltica". This route is open to road traffic now but could be
made more attractive to users by improvements in maintenance, road signs, roadside service facilities
new city bypasses and improvement of several road sections, and in particular by improved border
crossing facilities and procedures. Expanded access to the area via this route could stimulate tourism
and trade between Finland the Baltic States and Western Europe.



-37-
C. Transport Sector Issues and Strategy
21.           The Bank's overall strategy of supporting Estonia's transition to a market economy
includes not only helping to develop appropriate trade, fiscal and sectoral policies but also assistance
to key areas such as transport, which are critical to the evolution of an efficient private sector-based
economy. The development of the transport sector will be assisted by support from the Bank in the
following interrelated areas:
Support for the transformation from a centrally planned transport sector to one that is
responsive to market demands, takes into account cost considerations, and is based to
the maximum extent on competition for both transport operations and the maintenance
of transport infrastructure.
Short term assistance to help meet the ongoing maintenance costs of the system while
the government is developing the revenue base necessary to finance recurrent as well
as investment costs.
In the longer run investment assistance to finance improvement and expansion of the
transport system to handle the increased traffic that is expected to occur, mainly
through improvements such as urban bypasses, widenings, and improved port
handling facilities.
22.           In supporting the transition to a market economy, the Bank will encourage the
Government to privatize the transport operating companies to the greatest possible extent, and will
assist in doing so when there are Bank lending operations in a particular subsector. It will also
advocate the reduction or elimination of subsidies by instituting user charges and fees adequate to
cover the cost of operating the various transport services, and the use of accurate cost accounting
procedures to determine the actual level of these costs. Specifically, further action toward
privatization is needed in the road transport companies, the airline and the Estonian Shipping
Company as well as increased use of private sector companies for maintenance operations.
23.           Short term capital assistance is needed to expand the Government's road maintenance
program in order to avoid future expensive rehabilitation. Also, the urban public transport system
urgently needs renovation and upgrading in order to reduce efficiency losses of the working
population in going to and from their places of work. A project has already been identified. Tallin
airport needs to be resurfaced and improved navigation aids installed for safety reasons, and aircraft
servicing and maintenance facilities need to be improved; EBRD assistance is under consideration. In
addition, the Port of Tallin has an expansion plan which involves the specialization of the old Tallin
port for passenger traffic and the transfer and expansion of freight activities to Muuga. Container
handling facilities upgraded at the new Tallin port if this facility is to realize its potential as an
important transport link in the Baltic area.
24.           For the longer term, it will be important to study the prospective markets and
operating strategies for Estonia ports, and to determine the appropriate level of investment in the Via
Baltica route based on a realistic assessment of its value as a North-South transport link. It will also
be necessary to establish appropriate regulatory requirements for road and other transport modes to
ensure an equitable sharing of transport costs on both a local and international basis, and to develop
an appropriate transport investment program to meet the long term transport needs of the country



-38-
based on realistic estimates of traffic levels, costs and benefits. Feasibility studies on these issues are
already underway.



Annex B
-39-                           Page 1 of 2
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Organization of Estonian Road Administration
MINISTER OF
TRANSPORT AND                   MINISTRY
COMMUNICATION
ROAD ADMINISTRATION
_ DIRECTOR _
GENERAL                     BOARD OF
ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTORATE
ROAD OFFICES 
TECHNICAL
HARJU                        CENTER
HIIU
IDA-VIRU
JOGEVA
JARVA
LAANE
LAANE-VIRU
POLVA
PARNU
RAPLA
SAARE
TARTU
VALGA
VILJANDI
VORU
ROA MAST        l              WORK SITES
_65



ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Directorate of the Road Administration
DIRECTOR
GENERAL
|    TECHNICAL  1                                                                         MAINTENANCE
DIRECTOR                                                                                   DIRECTOR
DEVELOPMENT            DEVELOPMENT                   ADVISOR            ADVISOR               ROAD AND
DEPARTMENT               ADVISOR                  MECHANICAL          COMMERICAL            PRODUCTION
DEPARTMENT
Organization management               Coordinating directors'                              Road maintenance, repairs
Planning and budget                     activities                                          and construction
Road network                          Personnel                                            Production management
Design and researches                 Labor relations                                      Contractors
Technology                            Legal service                                       Resources
Economic management                   Bookkeeping                                          Finances
Computerization                       Intemal auditing                                    Machinery and equipment
Training                              Housekeeping                                         Construction materials bases
Foreign relations                                                                          Quality inspection
Project "Via Baltica"                                                                      Road inspection
Traffic safety
Traffic service
O 0
rcak\c4\w55684B



-41-
ANNEX C
Summary of Economic Analysis of Overlay Road Sections                         Page I of 2
Estonia Highway Maintenance Project                      _=
4f     Road      Start       End        Length      Width      Traffic       Capital      IRR      Strategy
(ki)        ()        (ADT)         Costs        (%)
_ _ _ _ _ _  (US$    m) _  _ _    _  _   _
1      19         25.4        26.9         1.5       11.0      5100          0.146       63.7     STD4
25      5         179.1       182.1        3.0        12.0      4750          0.081       55.4     STD3
23       1        162.8       166.8        4.0        12.0      4750          0.199       46.9     STD4
5      16           9.0       17.9         8.9        12.0     3200          0.752       41.9      STD3
4      15           4.7        8.5         3.8        12.0     4000          0.265       41.5      STD3
10     16           0.3         9.0        8.7        12.0     3200           0.715       37.2     STD3
17      2         137.0       141.2        4.2        12.0     2200           0.215       36.2     STD3
7       2         67.0        72.0         5.0        12.0     2700          0.353       34.3      STD3
11     16          17.9        39.5       21.6        12.0     3200           1.679       33.4     STD3
15     60          36.0        49.4       13.4        10.0     1700           0.128       30.9     STD2
22       1        123.9       145.0       21.1        12.0      2400          1.320       28.8     STD3
2      60         32.4        36.0         3.6        10.5     1700          0.240       28.5      STD3
8      60         21.6        32.4        10.8        9.5      1700          0.720       28.0      STD3
9      21          16.5       23.2         6.7        10.0     1300          0.064       25.5     STD2
19     17           9.3        15.4        6.1        10.5      920          0.063        23.0     STD2
6      34           0.0        8.2         8.2        12.0     1500          0.847       22.6      STD4
3       6          83.0       85.1         2.1       10.0      1000          0.156       21.7      STD3
18     14           0.0         2.7        2.7        10.0      1130          0.173       20.7     STD3
20      5         152.0       157.0        5.0        12.0      1360          0.292       19.9     STD3
12      6          75.1       82.0         6.9        10.0      1000          0.473       19.4     STD3
13     20          26.1       28.5         2.4        10.0      950           0.163       17.6     STD3
28     13           8.5        10.0         1.5       13.0      1160          0.125       16.4     STD3
26      6          59.5        70.5       11.0        12.0      1000          0.767       15.9     STD3
14     13           1.5         5.5        4.0        13.0      1160          0.370       15.5     STD3
29      3          17.0        19.0        2.0        12.0       970          0.116       12.9     STD3
27      3           3.1        15.0       11.9        12.0       970          0.604       12.5     STD3
24     12          28.0        33.4        5.4        11.3       750          0.409       12.3     STD3
16      3          50.2       59.0         8.8        10.0      480           0.087        6.7     STD2
21      3          36.8        42.8        6.0        12.0       480          0.068        6.4     STD2



-42-
Annex C
Page 2 of 2
NOTE: The World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III) was used to evaluate
five alternative maintenance strategies for road sections to be improved under this Project, and an
economic internal rate of return. (ERR) was calculated on the basis of the most cost effective strategy
compared to not carrying out the investment. The five strategies were:
STD1  Routine maintenance, patching 50% of potholes.
STD2  Routine maintenance, patching 100% of potholes. Resealing when 5% of cracks. Not
applied, if IRI > 4.1.
STD3  Routine maintenance, patching 100% of potholes. Overlay (5 cm) when IRI more than 4.1.
STD4 Routine maintenance, patching 100% of potholes. Overlay (5 cm) with leveling course (app.
3 cm) when IRI more than 4.1.
STD5  Routine maintenance, patching 100% of potholes. Reconstruction when IRI more than 5.5.
Traffic volume was assumed to rise 5 percent annually. The overall IRR for all twenty-nine overlay
sections combined was calculated at 28.5 percent.
The IRR for the 2700km of surface dressings was calculated on the basis of average traffic volumes
for roads to be treated, average cost of treatment, and roads in poor condition. The IRR for surface
dressings based on these assumptions was calculated to be 24.4 percent.
Sensitivity anaylsis of overlays and surface dressings combined was based on assuming traffic growth
at 2 percent and 8 percent per year, and cost increases and decreases of 15 percent, with the
following results:
Percent
2% Traffic Growth                  20.3
8% Traffic Growth                  31.5
15% Cost Increase                 23.4
15% cost Decrease                 29.1
2% Traffic and 15% Cost Increase    17.9
8% Traffic and 15% Cost Decrease   34.6



43-
ANNEX D
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(USSmillion)
Local            Foreign            Total
1. Road Maintenance
Overlays (200km)
Materials                                           .33                3.50             3.83
Civil Works                                         1.78               3.04             4.82
Surface Dressings (2700km)
Materials                                           3.39               4.00             7.39
Civil Works                                         1.34               1.92             3.26
Subtotal for Road Maintenance                          6.84              12.46            19.30
11. Technical Services
Research Program
Equipment & Supplies                                                  0.25             0.25
Consultants                                                           0.31             0.31
Training abroad                                                       0.05             0.05
Training for Construction ind.
Consultants (Trainers)                                                0.08             0.08
Pavement Management System
Equipment, Supplies & Vehicles                                        0.38             0.38
Consultants                                                           0.40             0.40
Training                                                              0.10              0.10
Road Network Study
Consultants                                                           0.40             0.40
Training abroad                                                       0.05              0.05
Road Safety Plan
Consultants                                                           0.03             0.03
Training for ERA
Training abroad                                                       0.15              0.15
Detailed Design & Work Supervision
Consultants                                                           0.20             0.20
Subtotal for Technical Services                                          2.40             2.40
111. Contin2encies                                       1.03               2.23             3.26
GRAND TOTAL                                             7.87               17.09            24.96



-44-
Expenditures by Financiers
Goverrnent   Finland    Denmark    Sweden        IBRD
1. Materials & Equipment    4.12                                           7.73
2. Civil Works              5.38          -          -           -         2.70
3. Consultants                -         0.68       0.31        0.43         -
4. Training                   -         0.25       0.05        0.05         -
5. Contingencies            1.43       0Q16        am          am          1.57
TOTAL                       10.93       1.09        0.41       0.53        12.00



-45-
ANNEX E
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitorable Indicators
Activity                             Start       Finish
Establish Project Implementation Unit
Nominate Project Manager                                     1.15.94     1.15.94
Nominate Secretary and Accountant                            1.20.94     1.20.94
3.1.94      3.1.94
ICB Stone Aggregate. 1994 supply
Preparation of specifications, quantities, and bid documents  1.29.94    2.30.94
Bank reviews bid package                                     3.5.94      3.12.94
Bid preparation                                              3.15.94     4.30.94
Bids, received, opened and evaluated                         5.1.94      5.10.94
Bank review of evaluation report                             5.11.94     5.15.94
Contracts awarded                                           5.16.94      5.16.94
Supply period                                                6.1.94      8.15.94
ICB Bitumen. 1994 supply
Preparation of specifications, quantities and bid documents  2.20.94     3.15.94
Bank reviews bid package                                     3.20.94     3.25.94
Bid preparation                                             3.28.94      5.15.94
Bids received, opened and evaluated                         5.16.94      5.30.94
Bank review of evaluation report                             6.2.94       5.8.94
Contracts awarded                                           6.10.94      6.10.94
Supply period                                                7.1.94       9.1.94
LCB. Three Overlay/Recycling Contracts
Design                                                       11.1.94     2.10.94
Preparation of LCB documents                                 1.21.94     3.10.94
Bank comments                                               3.15.94      3.20.94
Issue LCB documents                                         3.25.94       5.8.94
Evaluate bids and post quality                               5.9.94      5.30.94
Bank review                                                  6.1.94       6.6.94
Award of contracts                                          6.10.94      6.20.94
Contractor mobilize and construct                           6.21.94      9.30.94



-46-
Monitorable Targets and Performance Indicators
Monitorable Items            Units   At Start   Dec 94  Dec 95  Dec 96  At Project
Completion
Civil works
Stone aggregate                %        0       40       95      100          100
Bitumen                        %        0       40       95      100          100
Asphalt plant renovation      %         0      100                            100
Surface Dressing              km        0     1200    2700    2700
Overlays                      km        0      100      200      200
TA and trainin                 %        0        40       80      100
Research program               %        0       20       40       60           60
Road safety program           %         0       20       40      100          100
Road network                  %         0        0        0      100          100
Organization review           %         0       50       80      100          100
Private Industry program      %         0       40       70      100          100
PMS                           %         0       60       80      100          100
Laboratory                    %         0        2        6      100           10
Quarterly progress reports
Cost-Benefit Application       %        0       20       30       40            40
Portion of ERA Budget spent
on maintenance subject to
HDM analysis
Competitive Bidding            %        10      30       30       30            30
Portion of periodic
maintenance carried out under
competitive bidding
NOTE: IRR will be recalculated at project completion.



-47-
ANNEX F
ESTONIA
Highway Maintenance Proiect
Procurement Arrangements
Calendar Year
Project Element                1994         1995        1996       Total
Loan Timing:
1. Civil Works
1. 1 LCB4
(a) overlays, recycling                     1.9          2.0         0.0        3.9
1.2 Other
(a) surface dressing; overlays 5            2.2          2.8         0.4        5.4
2. Goods
2.1 ICB
(a) bitumen and pavement aggregate          3.3          4.0         1.1        8.4
2.2 Other
(a) bitumen & pavement aggregate            2.0          2.0         0.6        4.6
(b) office, laboratory & field equipment,   0.4          0.3                    0.7
vehicles, spare parts, materials &
supplies
3. Consultancies
(a) technical assistance, studies &         1.0          0.8         0.2        2.0
training, design & supervision
TOTAL                                        10.8         11.9         2.3       25.0
4Net of materials procurement see; 2.1 (a)
5Force Account by ERA



-48-
ANNEX G
Procurement Plan and Schedule
Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
Nature of      Total Cost    Method of
Package        Est. USS000  Proc.      Issue of    Submission   Award of    Completion
Doc.       of          Contract     of Package
Bids/Prop    Signing
Goods    Stone Aggregate    2200         ICB     3.15.94    4.30.94      5.16.94     8.15.94
Bitumen            1200       ICB      3.28.94     5.15.94     6.10.94     9.1.94
Stone Aggregate   2600         ICB     11.1.94     12.15.94    1.15.94     7.1.95
Bitumen            1200        ICB     1.15.95    3.1.95       3.15.95     9.1.95
Stone Aggregate
Local             3x16         DCV     3.1.94     3.15.94      3.20.94     9.1.94
Bitumen Local      1200        DCu     3.1.94      3.15.94     3.20.94     9.1.94
Stone Aggergate
Local             3x16         DC"     1.1.95     2.15.94      3.1.95      9.1.95
Bitumen Local     1500         DCu     1.1.95     2.15.94      3.1.95      9.1.95
Equipment         2x200         IS     7.1.94     8.1.94       9.1.94      9.1.95
Specialized Eq.   3x100        DC      7.1.94      8.1.94      9.1.94      9.1.95
Works    Overlay            2x600        LCB     3.25.94     5.8.94      6.10.94     9.30.94
Recycling          600         LCB     3.25.94    5.8.94       6.10.94     9.30.94
Surface dressing             Force a/c
Overlay           2x600        LCB     2.15.95     4.1.95      5.1.95      9.1.95
Recycling          600         LCB     2.15.94     4.1.95      5.1.95      9.1.95
Surface dressing             Force a/c
v ERA procurement, Non-Bank financed.



-49-
ANNEX H
Estonia
Highway Maintenance Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the IBRD Loan
Disbursements (US$ Million) Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year      Semester             Semester      Cumulative    % Disbursed
FY 95                December 94          2.5            2.5            21
June 95              2.5            5.0           42
FY 96                December 95          2.5            7.5            63
June 96              2.5           10.0           83
FY 97                December 96          1.0            11.0           92
June 97              1.0           12.0           100



-50-
ANNEX I
Supervision Plan
The schedule below is in addition to the regular needs for review of progress reports, procurement
actions, and correspondence, estimated to require 8 staff weeks per year for three project years.
Appropriate          Activity             Expected Skill              Staff
Dates                                     Requirements                Weeks*
5/94                 Supervision          Engineer, Economist,
Mission             Procurement, Disbursement,
(Project            Accounts                     8
Startup)
8/94                 Supervision          Engineer, Procurement,
Mission             Institutional, Training,
Research, Budget            10
1/95                                     Engineer, Accounts,
Institutional, Training,
Procurement                 8
5/95                                      Engineer, Research
Institutional, Budget       8
8/95                                     Engineer, Research
Institutional               8
1/96                "                    Engineer, Economist
Accounts                    8
6/96                 "                   Engineer, Budget
11/96               PCR                  Engineer, Financial Analyst
Preparation          Economist                   8
"Staff weeks for IBRD staff only.



-51-
ANNEX J
Contents of Implementation Volume
Annex 1      Identification and economic evaluation of road sections including sensitivity analysis;
Annex 2      Training plan;
Annex 3      Road Research Program;
Annex 4      Highway Management System, Terms of Reference;
Annex 5      Road Network Study, Terms of Reference;
Annex 6      Road Safety Study;
Annex 7      Environmental review.
Annex 8      Detailed Design and Work Supervision






tBRD 25466
\  9      t ~~FINLAND|      J._
J   \  -)  ,_r~M  V            h' n db_    -
SWE NDE 
JARVE  -  S.Il NARe
IEtA RUSNI                  Gulf of Fnlond                                              6                                                    Joh
POL ~AND     )                                <              _                  ' j                                                              'BELARUS  6
; v - X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  rEy  X a                                                     25
BALTIC SEA
< < _ _ \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                            oke                                             F     E D   REA   T   I   O   N
L  (                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Gulf    ai,n~                                           tLrn. R.I-.-$    f -4   7
Socremoo~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oeas7                                                            An
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT oRr3 ,b*U('Pr
PLANNED OVERLAY PROGRAM                                                                                 <<                                         Tso
'a                                        Moin roads                                         LATVIAg   o t\         
J  Aneroge daily traffic, 1993          Basic raads \ol 02 05 '  
27ctWordBnk projbects an             Selected cities       I        ___________________
~   sctin nmbes              National capital           \o         l        o      3                                         g
- International boandaries              MhLLES                                                                                     U
BRUA I   199
L.k.                                F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBUR I Y



