Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17020
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Loan No. 3731-EE
August 25, 1997
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May 15, 1997)
Currency Unit   =   Kroon
I Kroon        US$0.074
US$1   =    13.5 kroon
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1993        1994           1995            1996            1997
13.0        13.0           12.0            12.2             13.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PIU  - Project Implementation Unit
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
AADT  - Annual Average Daily Traffic
EEK  - Estonian Kroon
ERA  - Estonia Road Administration
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
MTC  -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
NCB  - National Competitive Bidding
NPV  - Net Present Value
nkm   - Net tons/km
PMS  - Pavement Management System
RUR  - Russian Ruble
vpd  - Vehicles per day
ESTONIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, Vice President, ECA
Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Christopher Willoughby, ECSIN
Responsible Staff: Anders Bonde, Task Manager



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN NO.3731-EE
Contents
Preface ...............................................................i
Evaluation Summary ............................................................. jj
Part I.  Project Implementation Assessment ..............................................................             1
A. Project Origin and Objectives ...............................................................1
B. Achievements of Project Objectives .............................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................ .                     5
D. Project Sustainability .............................................................. 10
E. Bank Performance ..............................................................                            10
F. Borrower Performance .............................................................. 11
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome ........................1.................................. 11
H. Future Operations                          ............. 12
I.  Key Lessons Learned .......................................................... 12
Part II. Statistical Tables .............................................................                           14
TABLE  1:  SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................... 14
TABLE 2:  RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS ..........................                            ..................... 16
TABLE  3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE .............................................................                     16
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED
AND  ACTUAL .............................................................                     17
TABLE5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............. 17
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ........................... 18
TABLE  7:  STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT ............................                         .................... 18
TABLE  8A: PROJECT  COSTS .............................................................. 19
TABLE  8B: PROJECT FINANCING  .............................................................. 19
TABLE  9:  ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS .......................                             ...................... 19
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL  COVENANTS  ................................................ 20
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS 21
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS  ..........................                            .................. 21
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS .....................................................  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Annexes:
A. Contract Cost Summary
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Cofinancier contribution to the ICR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT, LOAN NO. 3731-EE
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Highway Maintenance
Project in Estonia, for which Loan No. 373 1-EE in the amount of US$12.0 million equivalent was
approved on May 12, 1994 and made effective on September 28, 1994.
The loan was closed on June 30 1997, which was the originally planned closing date.
US$11.8 million has been disbursed as of June 1, 1997, and the remaining balance of US$0.2
million is expected to be fully disbursed by July 31, 1997. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by Finland, Sweden and Denmark.
The ICR was prepared by Anders Bonde, Task Manager, EC4IN and Robert Nooter,
Consultant, and reviewed by Dominique Lallement, Division Chief, EC4IN and Judy O'Connor,
Project Adviser for EC4. The borrower provided comments that are included as appendixes to
the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun prior to the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission on May 13 to 18, 1997. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing summary data during the
supervision/completion mission and by contributing the report included in Annex B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT, LOAN NO. 3731-EE
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Highway Maintenance Project of US$12.0 million was the second World Bank loan
to Estonia. Preparation was started in 1993, when it was obvious that the budget restrictions
resulting from the transformation from a centrally planned to a market economy were leading to
the rapid deterioration of the Estonia road network. If not remedied promptly, the deterioration
would accelerate, requiring proportionately higher maintenance costs at a later date. The project
was prepared in seven months and went to the World Bank Board of Executive Directors for
approval on May 12, 1994. The loan was converted from CPL to single currency pool terms in
1997.
Project Objectives
2.    The Project's objectives were to assist in preserving the Estonian road network, and to
improve the efficiency of Estonia's road maintenance operation for the future. Specifically, the
objectives included:
(i)   The expansion of ERA's program of periodic maintenance during the next two
years to permit surface dressings of 2700 km and overlays of 200 km.
(ii)   The introduction of cost benefit analysis techniques and new research into ERA's
maintenance planning to make its operations more efficient.
(iii)  Begin the development of a competitive road construction industry that can be
utilized for road maintenance and construction.
3.    The project objectives were realistic in terms of the borrower's capabilities, which were
clearly stated and specific. The preservation and future maintenance of the road network was
consistent and supportive of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of 1994 for Estonia, which
identified overcoming the backlog of deferred maintenance in essential infrastructure as a critical
step in the development of the private sector, which in turn was vital to the growth of the
economy. Grant financing was obtained from Finland, Sweden and Denmark to finance the
technical services needed for the institutional strengthening and technical upgrading included in
the project since the Government preferred not to use loan funds for this purpose.
4.    Project conditionality was limited to assuring that economic analysis would be.used in the
selection of the roads to be improved and the type of treatment applied to them, procurement of
goods and works would be carried out on a competitive basis following the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines with both local and foreign bidders eligible to bid that the Government



ii
would make an adequate level of financing available to the Estonia Road Administration (ERA)
each year during the life of the project, and that a training program for ERA personnel and the
private road construction industry be carried out.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The Loan fully achieved its overall objectives of preserving the Estonian road network and
improving the efficiency of road maintenance operations in Estonia, and did so on a timely basis.
It also achieved all of its specific objectives, which included specific targets for periodic
maintenance, the use of cost benefit analysis and new construction techniques to make ERA's
operations more efficient, and the beginning of the development of a competitive road
construction industry. Especially impressive were the low unit costs achieved in carrying out
periodic maintenance operations compared to costs for similar work in other countries. About 30
percent (17.5 km) of the surface dressings carried out under the first year's contracts were of
poor quality and had to be repaired by the contractors as a condition of their contracts. However,
this did not have any significant impact on the overall results of the project. The reasons for the
problem were addressed before the second year's work began, and quality in the second year was
of a higher standard.
6.    The overall costs of the project were in line with the project estimates, even though the
types of periodic maintenance actually carried out included improvements that in most cases
provided for a higher quality treatment than originally planned. The overall IERR calculated for
the completed project was 38.8 percent compared to the 26 percent estimated in the SAR.
7.    The main reasons for the project's success was its rapid preparation and early
implementation, the assignment of a well-qualified team within the ERA to carry out the project,
the excellent response of the emerging Estonian road construction industry to an opportunity to
compete for the work, and the appropriate technical services and training provided through the
project. Also, the Government made available an adequate and timely level of counterpart
financing to support the project.
8.    The new road construction techniques introduced to Estonia will most certainly be
sustained as their efficacy is apparent to the road authorities. Also, the use of competitive bidding
is now firmly established as an effective means of achieving good results at the least cost, and the
transformation of the road construction industry is undoubtedly permanent. Also, the use of
economic analysis as a means of achieving the least cost solution for road planning is accepted by
ERA, although the general application of economic analysis to all periodic maintenance will not
be able to be applied until the PMS is fully operational. The only major uncertainty regarding
project sustainability relates to the lack of establishment of a Road Fund or other relatively
permanent funding mechanism for financing road maintenance in the future, but the Government
has increased road user charges under consideration.
9.    The Government, the Bank and the cofinanciers all performed well in carrying out the
project. The Bank moved quickly in preparing the project and in assisting to secure grant funds
for the technical services required. The Government assigned excellent personnel to the project,
provided funds as required, and adhered to all of the project conditionalities. The cofinanciers



Uii
also did an excellent job of providing the technical services needed to assist ERA in carrying out
the project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   In summary, the project is rated as highly satisfactory in that it achieved or exceeded all of
its major objectives and has achieved substantial development results without any major
shortcomings. The civil works component introduced new road maintenance techniques
previously unknown in Estonia that permitted a superior result to be achieved at the originally
planned cost. The construction industry was able to meet its contract obligations at low cost
compared to other countries with similar conditions, and was able to improve its equipment base
at its own expense. Also, the Government has made some progress in providing an adequate level
of financing needed for future road maintenance, although this was not a specific requirement of
the project.
11.   Although the Government considers the project a success, it plans to meet its future
maintenance needs with its own resources and therefore is not seeking a follow-on project of the
same kind. Therefore, future road investments would be limited to major improvements in the
road system or new construction. The Bank agrees with this approach..
12.   Some lessons learned during project implementation that could be relevant to other
countries include:
(a)   New technologies require special care in their introduction; staff and contractors should be
provided special training, and the contractors should be carefully supervised in order to
minimize problems during implementation.
(b)   It is preferable to let the contractors have full responsibility for the procurement of all
materials needed for their work.
(c)   It is also preferable to let contractors be responsible for the provision of all of their
equipment, even at a stage when the construction industry appears to be weak and not
well equipped, since equipment can be rented from abroad or local contractors can enter
into joint ventures with foreign contractors that have the necessary equipment.
(d)   An important objective of project design and implementation of projects of this kind
should be the achievement of low unit costs for maintenance operations, since the costs
resulting from the Bank's projects set an example for the future of the industry. This can
be accomplished by having a good knowledge of what costs are possible, getting the full
cooperation of the local authorities in the achievement of this objective, assuring that
bidding is fully competitive, and designing the bidding documents so that the size of the
packages can accommodate both local and foreign bidders and alternative bids can be
considered.
(e)   Twinning of a local road administration with an experienced foreign road administration
can be an effective means of transferring managerial and technical knowledge on a
sustaining basis.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3731-EE
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.    After achieving independence in 1991, Estonia went through a period of severe economic
stress as it sought to transform its economy from a centrally planned to a market system. To
overcome major structural problems resulting from a half century of central planning, extensive
economic reforms were introduced. After initial and expected difficulties experienced in 1991 and
1992, which included high inflation and a sharp contraction of real GDP, Estonia experienced a
positive growth rate in 1994 and the years thereafter, and inflation declined from about 1000
percent annually in 1992 to about 10 percent at present. Part of the Government's efforts to
control inflation included a very restricted level of spending in the public sector, both for new
investments and for maintenance.
2.    The reduced Government spending led to a reduction in spending for road maintenance to
a level that was about half of the 1989 level, well below the optimal amounts needed to keep
Estonia's roads functioning at the lowest cost, or even to keep the entire road network
functioning. It was obvious during identification and preparation of this project that continued
under-maintenance would lead to either a breakdown of the road system or the need to spend
much more heavily in the future to repair the damage resulting from this period of neglect. Also,
while the Estonia Road Administration (ERA) was a competent organization that carried out its
tasks with a high degree of professionalism, it was hampered by lack of access to modem highway
technology, outdated and inadequate equipment, inferior indigenous materials that were only
satisfactory for low traffic volume roads, and the need to rely on Russian materials for imported
aggregate and bitumen.
3.    The Highway Maintenance Project was designed to assist the Government to arrest the
deterioration of the road network in order to keep Estonia's infrastructure intact, which was
considered to be essential for the economic development of the economy, and to improve the
efficiency of Estonia's road maintenance operations for the future. Specifically, the objectives
included:
(i)    The expansion of ERA's program of periodic maintenance during the next two
years to permit surface dressings of 2700 km and overlays of 200 km.
(ii)   The introduction of cost benefit analysis techniques and new research into ERA's
maintenance planning to make its operations more efficient.



2
(iii) Begin the development of a competitive road construction industry that can be
utilized for road maintenance and construction.
4.    The first objective stated above was intended to preserve a functioning transport network
needed to support the development of a vigorous market-based economy in accordance with the
objectives of the Bank's strategy for Estonia. The second and third objectives were intended to
assist in the transformation of a centrally planned economy to one based on competition, cost-
benefit analysis and private sector operations. Grant financing from Finland, Sweden and
Denmark was obtained to provide financing for the foreign technical services needed to assist in
institutional strengthening and technical upgrading, since the Government did not want to use
loan funds to finance costs of this kind.
5.    Project conditionality included: (i) selection of road sections to be improved and type of
treatment wou ld be based on surveys and economic analysis using the World Bank HDM
methodology; (ii) procurement of good and civil works financed by the project would be on a
competitive basis following the World Bank Procurement Guidelines; (iii) procedures would be
used to assure equal treatment for all bidders, including equal access to equipment available on a
rental basis and exclusion from bidding of government-owned companies that are not
managerially and legally autonomous from ERA; (iv) the Government to make available to ERA
each year during the life of the project a level of budget resources not less than the amount made
available in 1993 in real terms; and (v) that a training program for ERA personnel and the private
road construction industry be carried out.
6.    The project objectives were realistic in terms of the borrower's capabilities, and were
clearly stated and specific. The project was also consistent with and supportive of the Country
Assistance Strategy of 1994 for Estonia, which identified overcoming the backlog of deferred
maintenance in essential infrastructure as a critical step in the development of the private sector,
which in turn was vital to the growth and development of the economy. The project was also
accorded a high priority in the Estonia Public Expenditure Review of 1994. The overall risk was
moderate in light of Estonia's competence in road maintenance, but uncertainties existed about
the ability of the newly privatized firms to respond successfully to competitive bidding, and
whether local financing would be available as required.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The project achieved its overall objectives of preserving the Estonian road network and
improving the efficiency of road maintenance operations in Estonia. This was accomplished
because of the rapid preparation of the project, its early implementation due to the diligence of the
ERA staff in spite of some delay in the approval of the World Bank loan by the Parliament, and
because of the excellent response of the emerging Estonia construction industry to an opportunity
to develop itself and to compete for the work. Especially impressive was the relatively low cost
of carrying out the civil maintenance works compared to other countries, the utilization of new
technologies, and the introduction by the private construction industry of improved equipment
such as remixing equipment and mobile asphalt plants. The ERA has been strengthened and its
operating procedures improved by the introduction of competitive bidding, improved
specifications for road pavements, improved quality control and laboratory services, the



3
introduction of an improved data bank and a Pavement Management System, and the
establishment of linkages with Western road administrations that will provide an ongoing
exchange of information about road technologies and practices. The road maintenance budget has
been expanded at the level required by the World Bank conditionality, but is still less than needed
to provide a continuing maintenance program at an effective level unless further increases are
provided. A more detailed account of the project achievements is given below.
Expanded Civil Works
8.    The project was prepared in seven months since one of the objectives was to provide
resources as quickly as possible to prevent deterioration of the road network. The specific targets
of achieving 2700 km of surface dressings and 200 km of overlays in a two year period were
essentially met, as follows:
1995        1996         Total
Surface Dressing         1453.8       1224.8      2678.6
Overlays                  97.9        109.6        207.5
The project had originally been planned for the civil works to start in the 1994 construction
season, but obtaining Parliamentary approval for the World Bank loan took longer than expected,
thus delaying project startup. However, the Government was able to make US$ 2.0 million
available to the ERA from a World Bank Rehabilitation Loan (No. 35220-EE) in 1994 so that an
increased prograrn of road maintenance could be started in that year. These funds were used for
the procurement of bitumen and aggregate, and resulted in increasing the level of overlays that
could be carried out in that year and in keeping the surface dressings at the 1100 km level. The
Highway Maintenance Project itself started with the 1995 construction season, and was
completed within two years as originally planned.
9.    The rapid preparation and timely implementation of the program was an important factor
in helping to preserve the road network, since the work could be carried out before the
deterioration of the pavements had reached the point where more expensive treatments would
have been required. Also, the treatments applied in most cases resulted in a better, stronger and
wider pavement than had originally been planned within the budgeted cost estimates, as explained
in the following paragraphs.
Introduction of Cost Benefit Analysis, PMS and New Research
10.   During project preparation, road surveys were used as a basis for cost benefit analysis to
determine what road sections would benefit most from repaving or surface dressing applications,
and which technique would produce the highest rate of return. This analysis, carried out with the
assistance of the Finnish Road Administration (FinnRA), utilized the World Bank-developed
HDM computer model. FinnRA continued to assist the ERA in the analysis that was used in
subsequent years to select the road sections for repaving based on updated road surveys that
reflected the actual condition of the roads in each year.



4
11.  In addition, FinnRA assisted the ERA in developing a data bank to serve the Pavement
Management System (PMS) that ERA is now installing under EU-Phase financing. When fully
operational, this will allow an optimized pavement management strategy and a prioritized
maintenance plan, adjusted to the available budget, to be developed. The introduction of the PMS
has been somewhat slow. However, ERA has educated themselves with regard to pavement
management, established criteria for selection of a PMS, carried out surveys and built up a
database covering all main and basic roads, and found grant financing for the PMS expected to be
fully operational by the end of 1998. In the meantime, ERA now bases its selection of road
investments on conventional cost benefit analysis.
12.   The introduction of new road construction techniques that were not formerly known or
used by the ERA was accomplished by structuring the competitive bidding procedures so that
alternative bids were allowed. The most successful of these new techniques was the introduction
of recycling or remixing in lieu of conventional overlays for repaving of surfaces that had
undulations and extensive cracking. Methods used included both a 5 cm. remix of the asphalt-
concrete layer, and a 15 cm. recycling of the surface layer and the base course to produce a
bitumen stabilized base, followed by either a surface dressing (for low traffic roads) or an overlay
(for higher traffic volume roads). A cold emulsion was used as the stabilizing agent for the base
course. The 15 cm. recycling was especially effective when the road surface was uneven, and
could also be used to widen the road and/or provide for paved shoulders. It also had the
advantage of producing a strengthened base course, with generally better pavement strength
characteristics than could be achieved by an overlay alone. Results were very satisfactory for
both remixing and recycling, although there were some problems with the surface dressings
(which had nothing to do with the remix process) that will be discussed later.
13.   The objective of the research program was to improve cost-effectiveness in ERA's
operations through the introduction of state-of-the-art highway technology and to technically and
economically optimize the utilization of available indigenous resources. The program initially
included the adoption of Finnish pavement design and technical specifications. These standards
were subsequently reviewed by a team of experts from ERA and the Danish Road Directorate, the
latter financed by Danida. The Danish experts also assisted in identifying improved quality control
methods and the need for new testing equipment. The new testing equipment was procured under
the project, the laboratory has been upgraded, and its staff has been trained both in Estonia and in
Denmark. The use of indigenous materials, in particular lime stone aggregate and oilshale
bitumen, has been studied and the limits for their technical/economical use has been established.
The training of laboratory staff is a never ending process, but the Technical Center and its
laboratory are now in a much better position to carry out its responsibilities for quality control
and pavement design in accordance with the new standards that have been introduced.
14.   The Road Network Study carried out as part of the project included (a) a Road Network
Survey, as a basis for (b) a Road Classification review, and the (c) introduction of Private Road
Associations, and a subsequent (d) review of the ERA organization, resources and management.
It also included (e) a review of the ERA budgeting and follow-up systems and (t) a review of
ERA's long term planning processes. The work was carried out with intensive participation of



5
ERA staff, and recommendations for improvements and introduction of new concepts have been
developed in all of the above areas. A final report has been printed and a manual for the
Introduction of Private Road Associations has been developed. The Road Network Study was
carried out with the support of the Swedish consultant SweRoad and financed by SIDA. ERA
has requested additional financing from SIDA for continued assistance by SweRoad to help
implement the study recommendations.
15.   An extensive training program has been provided for ERA personnel and for the emerging
construction industry. The training included courses, workshops, study tours and counseling
services during design and construction work periods. The training covered procurement, project
management, cost-benefit analysis, quality control, new technologies and many more subjects.
The training was continuously evaluated by the participants, the ERA management and FinnTA.
The training component was highly satisfactory and formed the basis for the successful
implementation of the civil works.
Begin the Development of a Competitive Road Construction Industry
16.   The expansion of the amount of repaving work available to the construction industry was
combined with extensive quality control training of the contractors in cost accounting, bidding
procedures, modem management practices, and new technologies. This training combined with
the practical experience gained from competitive bidding and more rigorous standards of quality
control helped to create an effective private sector road construction industry more rapidly than
seemed possible during project preparation. The introduction of foreign competition, mainly from
Finnish contractors, along with the foreign capacity to carry out remix operations and to provide
specialized equipment, greatly speeded the process. Multiple bids were received for each road
section, costs were low compared to similar work in other countries, and contractors now have
access to equipment such as mobile asphalt plants that did not exist in Estonia at the beginning of
the project.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   Overall Implementation Record. Generally, implementation was on schedule after the
initial Parliamentary delay, and was relatively free of problems. This was due in large part
because the ERA assigned a small but highly competent staff to operate a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), and because the Government's counterpart funding was adequate and provided on a
timely basis.
18.   Bidding Procedures. Both NCB and ICB were used for the competitive bidding for the
road works. Both procedures produced satisfactory results in terms of getting an adequate bidder
response and competitive price proposals. However, it was important to the success of the
bidding that the overall bidding packages were divided into smaller components that could be bid
separately by smaller contractors, with the possibility of a combined price for the overall package.
This allowed the maximum response from both local and foreign bidders, both of which were able
to secure some of the work. Also, alternative bids were allowed, which assisted in introducing
the recycling/remix processes mentioned above.



6
19.   Cost Comparisons. The estimated costs in the SAR for the repaving operations were
calculated on the basis of a simplified forecast of treatments that included either 5 cm. overlays or
surface dressing applications. Costs were estimated on the basis of US$ per km. Roads to be
repaved were generally 7 m wide, with unpaved shoulders. Costs were extrapolated from Finnish
costs, adjusted for Estonia material and labor costs. Costs used in the SAR were as follows:
5 ctm. overlay           US$43,250/km
Plus Contingencies            6.500/k
Total                  49,750/km
Surface Dressing         US$ 3,944/km
Plus Contingencies              592/km
Total                  4,536/km
20.   The civil works subject to competitive bidding, which included all of the overlays or
alternative repaving treatments approximately equivalent to overlays, called for the contractors to
carry out the repaving work only. All preliminary patching, associated culvert cleaning and
reshaping of drainage ditches, and regrading of shoulders were carried out by the District Offices
as part of their regular work program, and consequently were excluded from the contract work.
A combination of local and imported aggregates and bitumen were used depending on the traffic
volume of the roads being treated, since Estonia has no local source of granite and the locally
produced bitumen is made from oil shale that does not meet the design specifications required for
roads with heavy load traffic. The actual treatments included 4 or 5 cm overlays (three
contracts), 4 or 5 cm remix treatments (two contracts), and recycling to achieve a 15 cm bitumen
stabilized base followed by either a surface dressing (five contracts) or a 4 cm overlay (five
contracts). Detailed descriptions of the contracts and their individual costs are included in
Attachment A.
21.   The actual average costs of different types of treatments implemented under the project
were as follows:
Treatment                             Average Cost per Sq m.
4 cm overlay                                US$3.70
5 cm overlay                                US$4.65
4 cm remix                                  US$4.25
5 cm remix                                  US$3.32
15 cm Bit.Stab. Base plus 4 cm overlay      US$6.48
15 cm Bit. Stab. Base plus Surf Dress.      US$5.85
The average cost for the 15 cm bitumen stabilized base with a treatment on top of the base of
either surface dressing or overlays declined over the two year period, presumably because
contractors found that they could apply this treatment at lower cost than they thought in the first



7
year. The cost for the one contract for a stabilized base with a 4 cm overlay in 1995, for example,
was US$8.53/sq m, whereas the same treatment in 1996 ranged in cost from US$4.60 to
US$7.10/sq m (see Annex A ).
22.   A comparison of the cost per km of roadway between the SAR and the actual contract
costs is as follows:
Treatment Method                Average Cost per km
Overlay cost in SAR             US$49,750/km
Actual cost of comparable treatment US$46,756/km
Thus, costs for treatments that were comparable to overlays were somewhat under the estimates
in the SAR even though the treatments applied in lieu of overlays resulted in pavements that are in
most cases superior to the originally planned treatment method.
23.   Surface Dressing Costs. The surface dressings, when applied without the preliminary
application of a bitumen stabilized base, were implemented by the District Offices of the ERA on
a force account basis. A combination of imported and local aggregates and bitumen was used,
with the imported materials utilized on the higher traffic volume roads. The aggregate and
bitumen used for the surface dressing applications were procured with Bank financing, and the
labor and equipment costs were provided by the District Offices out of their regular budgets.
Costs were accumulated on the basis of the materials costs incurred, plus the District Office labor
and equipment costs as reported by them. It was apparent that the District Office costs were
under-reported in some cases, making a cost comparison difficult. Offsetting this was a higher
than expected cost of imported aggregate. The unit costs as reported by the PIU for surface
dressings were as follows:
Treatment Method                Average Cost per km
Surface Dressings applied in 1995   US$4,356/kin, or US$0.62/sq.m.
Surface Dressings applied in 1996   US$4,698/krn, or US$0.67/sq m.
Surface Dressing estimate in SAR   US$ 4,536/1nm, or US$0.65/sq.m.
Internal Economic Rate of Return. The internal economic rate of return (IERR)
estimated for the SAR for repaving was calculated at 26 percent (Net Present Value was not used
at that tirne), which accounted for 90 percent of total project costs. This was based on an average
return of 28.5 percent for overlays and 24.4 percent of surface dressings. The EERRs were
recalculated at project completion, based on the actual costs and the current traffic volumes, with
the following results.
24.   For the overlay sections, some new sections were added and a few of the original sections
dropped based on the findings at the time the annual work program was made up. In each case,



8
this was done with the Task Manager's approval. Repaving strategies were changed to reflect the
availability of new technologies, and reviewed the second year on the basis of the first year's
experience. Of the 16 contracts over the two year period, ten included a requirement for a 15 cm
bitumen stabilized base, followed by either an overlay or a surface dressing. Widening was also
included in most of the contracts, which had not been included in the original cost estimate as
mentioned above. Therefore, the resulting road surface was in most cases superior to the
originally planned maintenance. Updated traffic information was used based on the most recent
available traffic data. On this basis, the recalculated IERR for the contract work compared to the
SAR estimate was as follows:
Estimated IERR for Overlays in the SAR              28.5 %
Recalculated IERR for Overlays (or comparable) Work    30.9 %
25.   The IERR results generated by the project would have been even higher except for the
roughness results that occurred in three of the contracts that included overlays, either carried out
separately or over a bitumen stabilized base. Roughness levels for these three contracts were 2.4
to 2.9 IRR compared to a contract requirement of 1.8 IRR. The ERA has subsequently provided
training for the contractors and for ERA supervisory staff with special instruction in how to
produce a more level surface in the future.
26.   Surface dressings that were applied without improving the base were implemented by the
District Offices, as mentioned above. The results were uniformly satisfactory, as these
organizations had specially trained units that specialize in this type of work. They also benefited
from recently procured used Finnish equipment, including chip spreaders. The result of the
recalculated IrRR for this work is as follows.
Estimated IERR for this Work in the SAR             24.4%
Recalculated IERR for Surface Dressings             46.9%
The principle reason for the improved IERR was the greatly increased traffic volume in 1996
compared to the estimated traffic increase used in the original calculation.
27.    The recalculated overall IERR for the combined work, amounting to 90 percent of the
total project costs, was 38.8 percent compared to the 26 percent estimated in the SAR.
28.   Surface Dressings. A problem arose with a portion of the surface dressing applications
applied over the remixed base course in four of the contracts carried out in the first year (out of a
total of seven contracts carried out in that year). This affected a total of 17.5 km of roadway. In
two cases, there was stripping of the surface dressing in some sections of the road, and in two
others there was bitumen bleeding. The causes of the problems were diagnosed as:
(a)   Inadequate mixing of the remixed base materials, resulting in soft spots where problems
developed.
(b)   Too much bitumen used in the surface dressing, which was applied during cold weather,
resulted in bleeding when the weather became warmer.



9
(c)   Bleeding in some cases was the result of too much bitumen in combination with a soft
base into which the aggregate had penetrated.
Repairs were made, with the costs shared by the contractor and ERA.
29.   In addition to the obvious lesson that surface dressings should not be applied in cold
weather and that surface dressing applications require close control to assure good results, special
training is required for contractors who have not had adequate experience in this technique. ERA
had provided special training for its personnel when these applications were carried out by its own
District Offices (which still is the case for surface dressings applied alone, including under the
project), with the result that Estonia has an excellent record of surface dressing applications.
However, when the surface dressings were awarded to private contractors that did not have this
background, some (but not all) had the problems described above.
30.   Project Conditionality. The project conditionalities described in para. 5. were adhered to
in all cases. Selection of road sections was based on surveys and economic analysis using the
World Bank HDM model, competitive bidding was administered effectively so that foreign as well
as local firms were involved in the bidding process, and all bidders were treated equally regarding
access to equipment. The ERA budget was increased in each year at a rate greater than the rate
of inflation for the previous year so as to maintain the level of budget resources in real terms, as
required in the Loan Agreement except in the final year, when the increase fell slightly short of the
requirement, as follows:
Dec - Dec Inflation  Required Level of Road Budget       Actual Level
1993        36 %               190 m. EEK (base)         190 m. EEK
1994        42 %               258 m. EEK                263 M. EEK
1995        29 %               367 m. EEK                365 m. EEK
1996        15 %               473 m. EEK                450 M. EEK
31.   The Government is aware that the amount of financing available for road maintenance will
decrease in 1997 when the World Bank loan is no longer available, and has made available 558
million EEK, which represents an increase of 24 percent in nominal terms and about 14 percent in
real terms. It also has under consideration a number of provisions to increase the level of road
user charges. This includes an increase in the excise tax on motor fuel, an annual tax on motor
vehicles, and special charges for heavy vehicles that damage the roads more than normal vehicles.
32.   Co-Financiers. Both FinnRA and SweRoad provided excellent personnel to assist the
ERA in carrying out the project. Cooperation was excellent at all stages of the project. FinnRA
became a partner in a "twinning" arrangement with ERA, with frequent visits in both directions
and through the extensive training program conducted by FinnRA/HME Institute for ERA
personnel and for the emerging construction industry in both Estonia and Finland. This
relationship had started even before the project startup, and made a substantial contribution to
providing a flow of information on Western road construction techniques and management



10
methods to ERA. Finland also served as an effective model for performing road maintenance
operations on a low cost basis based on Finland's own favorable cost experience. Another
important support from the co-financiers was the arranging for the procurement of second hand
road equipment from Finland and Sweden, which was available at about ten percent of the cost of
new equipment and which was much superior to the existing equipment of Russian design that
was available to the Estonians previously.
D. Project Sustainability
33.   The new techniques introduced to Estonia will most certainly be sustained, as their
efficacy is apparent to the road authorities. Also, the use of competitive bidding is now firmly
established as a sound means of achieving good results at the least cost, and the transformation of
the road construction industry is undoubtedly permanent. Also, the use of economic analysis as a
means of achieving the least cost solution for road planning is accepted in principle by ERA and is
being fully incorporated into the organization's operational systems through the introduction of
the PMS.
34.   One uncertainty regarding project sustainability relates to the lack of establishment of a
Road Fund or other relatively permanent funding mechanism for financing road maintenance in
the future. While the Government seems to recognize the importance of road maintenance and
plans to increase the ERA budget now that the project is completed, it is not in favor of what it
considers the compartmentalization of the Government's income sources. In view of the usual
restraints on Government budgets, it will be difficult for the Government to assure that an
adequate level of funding on a timely basis will be made available unless there are specific road
user charges that are based on road usage and regularly made available for road upkeep.
E. Bank Performance
35.   Preparation. The Bank team recognized that the need for increased resources was urgent,
and money spent at an early date would save a substantially larger amount that would be needed
later if the roads were not maintained adequately. The team therefore prepared the project
rapidly, and a loan was signed just seven months after the first preparation mission. The
subsequent delay caused by the Parliamentary approval process was greatly mitigated by the
efforts of the Bank team and the ERA to secure access to funds from the Adjustment Loan, as
described previously. The Bank also moved quickly to secure the grant financing needed to
prepare the project feasibility study, and to assure that grant funding would be available for the
technical services needed during implementation, since the Government did not want to use loan
funds for technical services. All of this was arranged within an extremely tight time schedule, so
that actual maintenance activities were able to start in 1994 with the Rehabilitation Loan funds
and in 1995 with the Highway Maintenance Loan funds.
36.   In retrospect, the project would have benefited from the inclusion of more forceful
conditions regarding the establishment of an adequate level of funding for road maintenance.
While the Government met the limited conditions established in the Loan Agreement, this only
required the provision of at least the same level of funding for ERA as in the base year in real



II
terms and did not result in the establishment of a fully adequate solution to the need for an
adequate level of road maintenance funding.
37.   On the whole, however, the Bank did a good job of preparing the project quickly and
adequately so that the amount of road deterioration was held to a minimum, and it provided
support for the concept that an adequate level of road maintenance is essential for the upkeep of
the road network.
38.   Implementation. Overall Bank performance during implementation is considered to be
satisfactory. The amount of resources devoted to supervision by Bank staff was minimal due to
restricted budgets, but was adequate to address the various problems that arose in the first year of
the project, such as the quality of surface dressings. This was possible due to the twinning
arrangement between ERA and FinnRA, which helped with supervision of the civil works and
with training. All of the arrangements worked out by the Bank for technical services was very
satisfactory, and provided the support that the ERA needed in setting up accounts, procurement,
and quality control.
F. Borrower Performance
39.   Preparation. The ERA was extremely responsive to the Bank's requirements for
information and in working with consultants in the preparation of feasibility studies needed for
preparation of the project. It provided the necessary level of personnel, and processed the project
through its own Government as quickly as was possible.
40.   Implementation. The person that worked with the Bank during the preparation of the
project was later assigned to an important position in the Government. However, the ERA
assigned an extremely well qualified person in his place as Project Manager, along with additional
personnel as needed. This team carried out the project in as excellent fashion. The personnel
were extremely well qualified technically, and became expert at Bank procurement regulations
during the course of the project.
41.   There were, nevertheless, some problems during implementation caused by the PIU's lack
of familiarity with Bank procedures. The first year's work program was started somewhat late,
since the processing took longer than the PIU expected. This led to the civil works being carried
out late in the season, causing the quality problems referred to above. Also, some quarterly
reports were not submitted on schedule. And in one instance, the procurement procedures were
not clear as to under what conditions alternative bids would be accepted. However, on the whole
the PIU did an excellent job during implementation, and especially so in regard to the effective use
of alternative bids and in securing the maximum competition with resulting low costs for the work
that was performed.
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome
42.   The project outcome is rated as fully satisfactory. The project objectives were achieved,
and additional substantive achievements were made such as the work carried out with Adjustment
Loan funding, the effective adoption of the remix technology, the strengthening of the operational



12
capabilities of the ERA, and the achievement of a level of costs for periodic maintenance that are
outstanding and can serve as a model for other countries.
43.   The quality problems that appeared in the first year's work program could perhaps have
been avoided by more adequate training and preparation of the successful contractors in surface
dressing technology, and the avoidance of applying these treatments in cold weather. Also, it
would be preferable if the Government had developed a more adequate level of road user charges
that would have assured the necessary level of finding needed for future road maintenance.
However, the Government is aware of the problem, -and has stated that it will address it in the
coming year, as noted in para 30.
44.   It is particularly satisfying that ERA has absorbed so much and benefited from the new
methods of operation and the new technologies offered through the project. It has come a long
way in its adaptation to a market economy, with the acceptance of cost benefit analysis,
competitive bidding, and contract management techniques. It is continuing to improve its
operational systems, and is expected to make continued progress on its own in the future.
H. Future Operations
45.   The Government has been satisfied with the results of the project, and appreciates the
assistance at a time when the Government lacked the means to meet its road maintenance
requirements with its own resources. However, it believes that it can now finance these needs
itself, and does not intend to seek outside financing for this purpose in the future. The Bank
agrees with this assessment, which is consistent with the Bank's thinking as it formulates a new
strategy for Estonia. It is also consistent with the Bank's general policy that countries should
finance their own maintenance requirements. Therefore, future road investments would be for
major improvements in the road system, or for new construction.
I. Key Lessons Learned
46.   A number of key lessons emerged from this project experience, which will be related here.
Of course, each country situation is unique, and careful review is required to know whether the
lessons are in fact transferable to any particular situation.
(a)    Surface Dressings. Surface dressings are an excellent way to treat some types of
pavement problems at low cost, but require special care in their application. Both
contractors and supervisory personnel require special training, and the quality control
organization should be familiar with the potential problems that may arise in applying
these treatments, such as the adverse effects of cold weather, so that they can help to
avoid application problems before they arise.
(b)   Responsibility for Materials. During project preparation, the ERA planned to purchase all
of the bitumen and aggregate in bulk in order to assure adequate quality and to get what it
assumed would be a better price than if each contractor bought his own materials. It also
thought that the local contractors may have difficulty in meeting the financial requirements
of procuring the materials. However, prior to the first tender, the PIU decided, with the



13
Bank's approval, to have the contractors be fully responsible for the materials, including
their procurement. In retrospect, this was a sound decision since all contractors were able
to obtain materials that met the specifications on a timely basis and without any financing
problems, and without the divided responsibility for timely delivery that would have been
inherent in the original arrangement.
(c)   Equipment Issues. In the initial stages of project planning, the ERA thought that it would
be necessary to procure equipment for the privatized firms that would be bidding on the
civil works component, since most of the equipment in the country was old and not of
good quality. However, the Bank team only agreed to include the improvement of three
existing asphalt plants in order to improve the quality of the asphalt concrete mix and to
reduce the emission of fiumes, with the responsibility for other equipment left up to the
bidding contractors. The asphalt plants were thought of as necessary since there were no
movable asphalt plants in the country at that time, so that the owner of the nearest
stationary plant had a cost advantage over everyone else. In the event, all contractors
were able to secure the equipment that they needed for the work, and during the project
implementation period private owners added two movable asphalt plants to their
equipment stock. The lesson learned in Estonia was that the contractors had more
capacity to solve their equipment needs than either the ERA or the Bank team thought
possible originally.
(d)   Achieving Low Road Maintenance Costs. This project demonstrated that road
maintenance costs can be carried out at levels considerable lower than thought by other
country road maintenance organizations, some other lending institutions, some
consultants, and other parts of the Bank. To accomplish this, however, requires a good
knowledge of what costs are possible, seeking the cooperation of the counterpart
organization in achieving the objective of low costs, assuring that the competitive bidding
process is truly competitive, with bidding packages designed to be open to both local and
international bidders, and taking all steps possible to create a competitive environment.
(e)   Twinning as a means of Technology Transfer. There were multiple benefits from the close
cooperation established between ERA and FinnRA. Frequent visits to Finland, the
presence of Finnish highway engineers during contract supervision, the constant exchange
of information, and the access to Finnish used road construction equipment at favorable
prices all contributed to the establishment of a relationship that will no doubt extend well
beyond the life of the project.



14
Part HI. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partialcable
Macro Policies                n             0             n              n
Sector Policies               0            0              01             0
Financial Objectives          O             03            0 
Institutional Development     0E 0                        0              0
Physical Objectives           03            E             E              E
Poverty Reduction                           E             E O0
Gender Issues                 E l                         0 El3
Other Social Objectives       O             0             0             03
Environmental Objectives      O             0x            0l             0
Public Sector Management      0             E 0           0              0
Private Sector                0ll 0                                      El
Development
Other (specify)               E             E             O              O
(Continued)



15
B. Project Sustainabilitv     Likely               Unlikely            Uncertain
(/)                  (1)                   (/)
0x                   El                   E
Highlv
C. Bank Performance          satisfactr          Satisfactorv           Deficient
(vi)                (/)                  (1)
Identification               O                    [El                  0
Preparation Assistance       0                    El                   0
Appraisal                    0                    [E                   0
Supervision                  0                    [E                   0
FE hlZ
D. Borrower Performance      satisfactorv         Satisfactory          Deficient
(/)                 (V)                  (/)
Preparation                  al                   E 
Implementation              10                    O                    O
Covenant Compliance          El 0                                      0
Operation (if applicable)    El                   E                    E
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome    satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
m            El            ElE



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose          Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. None.
2.
3.
Following operations
1. None.
2.
3.
Etc.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     10/93               10/93
Preparation                                    12/93               12/93
Appraisal                                      01/94               01/94
Negotiations                                   03/94               03/94
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)     -                   -
Board Presentation                           05/12/94             05/12/94
Signing                                      05/27/94            05/27/94
Effectiveness                                09/28/94             06/20/94
First Tranche Release (if applicable)            -                   -
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if
applicable)
Project Completion                           12/31/96             12/31/96
Loan Closing                                 06/30/97             06/30/97



17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS thousands)
FY95   FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate        5.0      5.0       2.0
Actual                    0.1      8.3       3.6
Actual as % of estimate   2%      166%      180%
Date of final disbursement                 6/19/97
The disbursement plan was informally revised after the 1994 reprogramming. (Paragraph 8)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                    Actual
L Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. Civil Works         To be carried out in two   Completed on schedule
years
2. TA and Training     To be carried out over two   Completed on schedule
years
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1.                     Not Applicable
2.                      4
III. Other indicators (if applicable)
1. % of budget subject    30 %                      30 %
to cost-benefit analysis
2. % of periodic maint.    30 %                     30 %
subject to competitive bidding



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                   Actual
L Key operating indicators in SAR
1.                     Not applicable
2.
3.
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1.
2.
3.
III Modified indicatorsforfuture operation (f applicable)
1.
2.
3.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                            Purpose as defined at   Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Road Network Study        Basis for organization and  Compl.  ERA is
operation of ERA in future          incorporating into
its org. and magt.
structure
2. Road Safety Plan          Program of Action for Road           The Road Safety
Safety                              Program
recommends
organizational
irnprovements and
-   includes short-,
medium- and
long-term action
programs.



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                          Local Foreig   Total        Local  Foreign  Total
costs  n costs             costs   costs
1. Overlays                   2.11    6.54    8.65        2.98    9.43    12.41
2. Surface Dressings           4.73    5.92    10.65       5.32    6.77    12.09
3. Equipment, Supplies &        -      0.63    0.63         -      0.63    0.63
Vehicles
4. Technical Services & Training  -    1.77    1.77         -      1.77    1.77
5. Contingencies               1.03    2.23    3.26         -       -       -
Total                          7.87    17.09   24.96       8.30    18.60   26.90
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                          Local Foreig   Total        Local  Foreign  Total
costs  n costs             costs   costs
1. World Bank                  0.66   11.34   12.00       0.50    11.50   12.00
2. Finland                      -      1.09    1.09         -      1.09    1.09
3. Denmark                      -      0.41    0.41         -      0.41    0.41
4. Sweden                       -      0.53    0.53         -      0.53    0.53
5. Government                  7.21    3.72    10.93      7.80    5.07    12.87
Total                          7.87    17.09   24.96       8.30    18.60   26.90
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Type of Expenditure     Cost in US$         Estimated LERR        Actual IERR
Overlays by contract    12.41 million            28.5                 30.9
Surface Dressing by     12.09 million            24.4                 46.9
District Office
Overall Average                                26.0                 38.8



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Estonia Highway Maintenance Project
Original    Revised
Agree-           Covenant Present Fulfillment Fulfillment   Description of
ment   Section    Type    Status    Date       Date         Covenant       Comments
Loan  3.01(a)        4       C                          Commitment To
Project
Loan  3.01(b)(i)    10       C                          Carry Out Impl.
Program
Loan  3.01(b)(ii     2       C      Annual        -     Budget For ERA          -
Not Less
Than In 1993
Loan  3.02          10       C         -          -     Procurement Per         -
Sch. 4
Loan  3.02          10       C         -          -      Selection of Roads     -
By Econ. Analysis
Loan  3.04          10       C         -          -     Carry Out Training      -
& Studies
Loan  4.01(a)        1       C         -          -     Maintain Records        -
& Accounts
Loan  4.01(b)        1       C         -          -     Will Carry Out          -
Audits
Loan  4.02           1       C         -          -     Will Employ Audits      -
Loan  Sch.5(1)      10       CP     6/30/96       -     Will Introduce
Pavement
Mgt.System
Loan  Sch.5(2)      10      CD      3/31/95       -     Will Prepare Road       -
Safety Programs
Loan  Sch.5(3)      10       C      7/01/94       -     Establish Bid
Evaluation
Committee



21
Covenant types:                                                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                     8. = Indigenous people        C = covenant
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation  9. = Monitoring, review, and  complied with
from beneficiaries                          reporting                CD = complied
3. = Flow and utilization of project finds  10. = Project implementation not  with after delay
4. = Counterpart funding                   covered by categories 1-9   CP = complied
5. = Management aspects of the project or  11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral   with partially
executing agency                         budgetary or other resource    NC = not
6. = Environmental covenants               allocation                  complied with
7. = Involuntary resettlement            12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/ regulatory/institutional
action
13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title   Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. n.a.                        n.a.
2 .
3 .
etc.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Revised               Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks   US$    Weeks      US$         Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal   (27.4)                                 27.4     80.5
Appraisal               (12.1)                                    12.1     37.6
Negotiations through    (7.4)                                     7.4      24.7
Board approval
Supervision              74                                       66.0    145.8
Completion                8
Total             128.9                                    112.9   288.6



22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratin 2
Stage of      Month/  No. of Days Specialization'  Implem.  Developm  problems
project cycle     Year  Persons  in                     status    objective    3
Field
Through appraisal     01/94     4      20  HE*,E,F,M
Appraisal through     05/94     7      0   HE,L,D,F,E,P
Board approval
Supervision           05/94     1      6   HE                  1         1
09/94     1      2   HE                 S          S
03/95     3      3   HE,E               S          S
12/95    3       3   HE, HE, F          S         S         T
6/96     3       3   HE, HE, E         S         HS
10/96    2       6   HE, F              S         S
Completion            05/96     3      4   HE, HE, E          S         HS
Total
1 - Key to Specialized staff  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
skills:                            etc.                           etc.
etc.
* HE -Highway Engineer



23                                  Annex A
Page 1 Of 2
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1995 CONTRACT COST SiJMVIARY
CONTRACT  LENGTH   W IDTH   TREATIMENT   COST/M-I COST/KM
NO#             km         meters
1            10.37         9.7         4cm.overlay         $3.33       $32,400
2             21.4          10          Scm.remix          3.32        33,280
3            10.63          9        15cm. bit.stab. plus  6.55        57,360
surf. dr.
4             9.95          9.4      15cm.bit.stab. plus   8.53         83,085
____==___=_____                                4cm overlay
5            11.89          8        15 cm.bit.stab. plus  6.90        55,360
surf. dr.
6             27.8           8      15 cm. bit.stab. plus  5.60        44,560
surf. dr.
7             5.9           8.6      15cm. bit stab. plus  6.05        48,600
surf. dr.
1995 OVERALL AVERAGE COST - $5.38/M2 OR $47,688.KI
Note: The contract price did not include prepartion, drainage or shoulder works in
either 1995 or 1996.



24
Annex A
Page 2 of 2
ESTONIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1996 CONTRACT COST SUMMARY
CONTRACT        LENGTH            WIDTH         TREATMENT           COST/M2         COST/KM
NO#             km             meters      _                         $              S
1             10.1            8.9        15 cm. bit stab.        7.10           63,190
+ 4 cm. overlay
2             18.0             9.0       16.0 km of 15 cm.       6.90           62,100
bit stab. + 4 cm.
overlay; 2.2 km of
milling + 4 cm
overlay
3             15.2            6.23       4 cm remix              4.25           16.478
4             5.0              9.0       5 cm. overlay           4.65           41,850
5             5.8             9.0        4 cm overlay            4.08           36,720
6             17.6             8.9       15 cm. bit stab.        5.29           47,081
+ 4 cm. overlay       __
7             22.1             9.0       15 cm. bit stab.        4.60           41,400
+ 4 cm. overlay
8             9.1              9.0       + 15 cm. bit stab.      3.64           32,760
only  .
9             6.5              8.0       15 cm. bit stab.        4.15           33,200
+ surf. dr.
1996 Overall Average Cost - $5.07/m2, $43,283/km
(or, with overlay added, for contract No.#8) - 5.37/m, $45, 845/km
+ Since fuids from the project were limited, the overlay was added with EPA's own
resources.



25
ANNEX B
Page 1 of3
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT ON THE ESTONIA HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
PROJECT
The ERA fully agrees with the detailed data and evaluation of the Project which have been
written in the Bank's parts of the ICR. Only some additional facts and opinions, urgent specially
from the stand-point of the ERA are brought in the next.
A. Assessment of the Project Objectives
1. Objectives:
Due to the economical situation there are backlogs in recycling of asphalt pavements on public
roads during 1990-1993 which were too serious to cover by one loan or one concentrated
project. So the main strategy and expectations of the ERA starting with the Project were:
to demonstrate that normal annual volumes of asphalt works are feasible again;
to show to the Goverrnment real limit of financing required for the implementation of
minimum of these works;
-     to get certain base for the future activities.
2. Design:
The preliminary choice of the road sections for recycling (overlays) respectively the instructions
and methodology of the Bank made up about 500 km. Finally, 200 km of them were included in
the Project.
Roads for surface dressing were chosen using existing domestic time-normatives, traffic data and
actual surveys.
Technical design was done by the design-unit of Technical Centre of the ERA basing on the new
design standard. This was the main reason why certain parameters were changed compared to
SAR (specially width of pavement until 9 metres)
3. Implementation:
The main volumes of the Project works were divided into two roughly equal parts and
respectively realized. Maximum of the financial costs (among this - 60% of the loan) was done in
the 1st year of the implementtion as whole procurement of materials has been planned for that
period.



26
ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
4. Operational Costs:
- Arrangement of bidding procedure (2 competitive biddings for procurement and 4 for
civil works);
- Contract documentation;
- Contacts on the international level (among this the Bank and foreign companies);
- Organization of technical supervising.
B. Evaluation of the borrower's own performance.
1. Evaluation
Advantages: The PIU had been established using the ERA's own personnel. Relatively small
groups of people well known to each other worked fluently and without conflicts. Everybody had
required technical experience and experience of management on his own field. Necessary training
took place as at home, on the job and as on abroad. The works included in the Project were
relatively simple and in general know from earlier periods. The cooperation with Finnish,
Swedish and Danish road administrations started in 1991-1993 appeared very effective regarding
the Project.
Shortages: Lack of experience in market economy, in tender procedures and in the work with
special documentation. the whole existing system of technical supervising was to be reorganized.
Knowledge and skills of foreign contacts of the different members of the PIU were not on the
similar level. Weak proficiency in English language complicated dealing with special instructions
and current documents. Due to the short preparation and implementation period most of the
trainings started too late for participants to be effective for whole period of activities.
2. Benefits
-     Due to the combined sources (loan + budget) the worst sections of the public roads have
been recycled and saved from collapse;
-     Annual volumes of asphalt works have grown up and stay at present as minimum on the
Project level;
-     Several recycling technologies known but unused in Estonia earlier have been elaborated
and taken in permanent use (deep cold stabilization, square milling, hot recycling ART);
-     Remarkable quantity of laboratory equipment have been supplied for the Technical
Centre own asphalt plants and the supervising unit as well;
-     Contacts with Nordic countries have been developed at the consultancy and research
studies have been added to former common activities;
-     Turn of mind of the ERA (customer) has changed and of domestic contractors as well.
Also either the moral or technical base of both have strengthened.



27
ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
3. Lessons learned.
1.    The Bank.
From the standpoint of the ERA, the Bank team has done its work professionally. The
borrower has got rapid, sufficient and complete answers, explanations and instructions to all the
questions and problems. The PIU of the ERA and the Task Manager of the Bank have worked
fluently without any conflict. There have been also no problems with money transfers etc.
Number of possible trainings and seminars arranged by the Bank has been sufficient, even too
many for the ERA due to the lack of the qualified participants from borrower's side.
2. Cofinanciers
The contacts and cooperation with cofinanciers (specially with Finnish side) have been
highly satisfactory.
Aleksander Kaldas
Deputy Director General of the ERA
Project Manager
Aswin Kokilananda
A:\ICREST.DOC
August26, 1997 16:10



FINNISH NATIONAL                     28
ROAD ADMINISTRATION                                               Page 1 of 2
Mr. Anders Bonde
Task Manager
The WORLD BANK
ESTONIA HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT;
THE FINNISH CONTRIBUTION
The Finnish National Road Administration ( Finnra) has assisted The
Estonian Road Administration (ERA) and the World Bank by providing
technical service in the preparation and implementation of the project.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Traffic and Communication
and Finnra made decisions about financing the Finnish contribution within
the framework of co-operation between Estonia and Finland. Finnra was
invited to act as an implementing agency.Arial
Since September 1993 I have worked as a Team Leader of the Finnish
team.
Now after the project is completed I would like to give a statement based
on our experience during the project.
The co-operation between the Finnish and the Estonian experts has
always been excellent and beneficial based on many elements;
between Estonian and Finnish experts there are no language barriers
worth mentioning.
co-operation between ERA and Finnra started in 1991 which is why most
experts responsible for various components know each other previously
within the framework above mentioned co-operation some road
management systems are rather similar
both short geografical distance and well working telecommunications made
easier constant communication. Nevertheless it would have been a good
idea if a Finnish expert had worked together with the Estonian PIU-team in
the preparation of bidding documents and supervision of civil worksl-3
months continuously in the spring 1995 and 1996. During this project we
assisted the Estonian team on a basis of short term trips and home office
services.



29                                    ANNEX C
The co-operation between the Finnish team and the experts of other Page 2 of 2
contributors, Sweroad and the Danish Road Directorate, went very well
because of the previous Nordic co-operation within the Nordic Road
Association and in other connections.
We would like to thank especially the representatives of the World Bank,
Mr. A. Bonde and Mr. R. Nooter and the representavive of the Estonian
Road Administration, Mr. A. Kaldas for the excellent co-operation during
the project.
Mauri Pukkila,        Deputy District Director
in Vaasa Road Disctrict



IMAGING
Report No.:         17020
Type:      ICR



