Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3731 EE
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Highway Maintenance Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated May 27, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3731 EE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ERA" means the Estonian Road Administration within the
Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Communications; and
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
Page  3
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through ERA with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering,
environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii)
during the project implementation period, take all necessary measures to
make budgetary resources available to ERA yearly at a level, in real terms,
not less than the budgetary resources available to ERA in its budget year
1993.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall select the roads to be rehabilitated
under the Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  4
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the training programs and studies referred to in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement in accordance with terms of reference and an implementation
schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause:
            (i)   the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section including those for the Special Account for
                  each fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   to be furnished to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified auditors to review the accounting systems and practices of ERA,
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that:
      (a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any
                  loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of
                  the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                  thereof, or
           (ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to
                  the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified
in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
Page  5
                                Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            1 Suur-Ameerika
            EE0100 Tallinn
            Estonia
                                          Telex:
                                            173106 PLAAN SU
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
                        By /s/ Toomas Ilves
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                        Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
Page  6
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated           % of
                                (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)       Civil works                2,700,000      80%
(2)       Equipment,                 8,100,000      100% of foreign
          materials and                             expenditures and
          supplies                                  90% of local
          (including                                expenditures
          aggregate and
          bitumen)
(3)       Unallocated                1,200,000
                                    __________
            TOTAL                   12,000,000
                                    ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,200,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)
and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date, but
after February 1, 1994.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist in preserving the Estonian
road network by expanding the program of periodic maintenance of the
Estonian Road Administration, by introducing cost-benefit analysis
techniques and new research in maintenance planning, and by promoting the
development of a competitive road construction industry.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Periodic Road Maintenance
    Application of surface dressing to about 2700 km of roads (about 1200
km in the first year and 1500 km in the second year) and of surface overlays
of about 200 km (about 100 km each year).
Part B:   Technical Services, Training and Research
1.        Carrying out (a) a research program to review the ERA's Pavement
Design Manual, including a review of design standards and development of
performance-related specifications; (b) a review of testing and quality
control methods; and (c) an identification of optimum pavement strengthening
standards for various types of existing pavements.
2.        Carrying out a training program for (a) ERA personnel; and (b) the
private road construction industry.
3.        Carrying out a Road Network Study which will provide
recommendations about (a) possible changes in responsibility of maintenance;
(b) the basis for the design of an appropriate organizational structure and
staffing; and (c) annual budgetary requirements for an adequate program of
Page  7
highway maintenance.
4.  Introduction and implementation of a pavement management system assuring
optimal selection and timing of pavement treatment.
5.  Development and implementation of a road safety plan.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning November 15, 1999
    through November 15, 2008            600,000
And on May 15, 2009                      600,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
Page  8
More than six years but                        0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.        To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Estonia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Items or groups of items for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.        Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.        Contracts for items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  9
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contract
s:
    (a)   With respect to the first contract to be awarded in accordance
with Part C.1 of this Schedule, and with respect to each contract estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall cause ERA to introduce, by June 30, 1996 a Pavement
Management System that is satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  The Borrower shall cause ERA to prepare, by March 31, 1995, a Road
Safety Implementation Program based on the Road Safety Study.
3.  In order that ERA may effectively carry out its responsi- bilities with
respect to procurement, the Borrower shall cause ERA to establish, by July
1, 1994, a bidding procedure and bid evalua- tion committee.
4.  The Borrower shall cause ERA to make available to all potential bidders
a list of equipment available for rental under the Project, and such
equipment shall be rented at the same cost and payment terms to all.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
Page  10
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
Page  11
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
