The World Bank                 Do    UMEv         1 H Street N.W.          (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BA PIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Wa4hington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DE VELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           8                         Cable Address: INDEVAS
J u        3     ,2012
Her Excellency
E. Viv.ana Caro Hinojosa
Minister of Development Planning
Ministry of Development Planning
La Paz, Bolivia
Re: Plurinational State of Bolivia: Credit No. 4377-BO and Credit No. 4440-BO (Emergency
Recovery and Disaster Management Project)
Second Amendment to the Financing Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Financing Agreement between the Plurinational State of Bolivia (the "Recipient")
and the International Development Association (the "Association"), dated February 11, 2008, as amended
and restated on November 18, 2008, with respect to the above-captioned Project (the "Agreement").
Pursuant to your letters dated March 5 and May 18, 2012, and the Aide Memoire dated January
20, 2012, requesting the Association to: (a) amend the Agreement, including extending the Project
Closing Date and; (b) cancel a total amount of SDR 3,936,099.19 from the Initial Credit and Additional
Credit, we are pleased to inform you that the Association acknowledges your partial cancellation request
as of March 6, 2012, and agrees to amend the terms of the Agreement as follows and set forth in the
Attachment to this letter (the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement):
1.     The designation of "VPCTA" and "VIDECICODI are hereby amended and replaced
throughout the Agreement by "VPC" and "VIDECI", respectively.
2.     Part I of Schedule I to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety to
read as follows:
"Part 1. Policy Development for Sustainable Reconstruction
(a)    Provision of technical assistance to improve the Recipient's disaster vulnerability
and recovery program, including the prioritization of rehabilitation works,
institutional strengthening and capacity building within the Recipient's
municipalities, Autonomous Departmental Governments and the Recipient's
sectoral ministries, and the carrying out of coordination activities between the
national and local governments.
(b)    Development and implementation of methodologies for risk management and
risk mitigation and their incorporation in the Recipient's territorial planning,


﻿-2-
including: (i) the carrying out of pilot projects which integrate risk management
concepts; (ii) the drafting of a law for the incorporation of risk management into
territorial planning; and (iii) the development of a national framework for
resettlement of people living in areas of recurrent non-mitigable risks of natural
disasters.
(c)    Development   of   information  collection,  management  systems,  and
communications to improve risk identification and management.
(d)    Systematization and analysis of the Recipient's National Risk Management
System, including: (i) the drafting of legislation to formalize recovery operations
responsibilities and authorities at the national, subnational and sectoral level; (ii)
development of a methodology and implementation models for the execution of
emergency work; and (iii) carrying out of workshops and training events on
cross-sectoral considerations.
(e)    Provision of technical assistance for the institutional strengthening at the sectoral
and territorial level to improve communication and participation in future
recovery operations, including: (i) provision of technical assistance for the
creation of sectoral risk management units; (ii) strengthening and development of
disaster risks management units at the territorial level; and (iii) provision of
technical assistance to VPC for the organization, design, development, and
integration of a sectoral focused program for risk management."
3.     Section I.A. 1. of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:
"1.    To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project by FPS, the Recipient shall
make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to FPS through a subsidiary
agreement to be entered between the Recipient and FPS, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia, FPS's obligation
to provide all the necessary information and documentation to VPC related to the
implementation of Part 2 of the Project (including but not limited to, the
information required for compliance with Section III.D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement) ("Subsidiary Agreement")."
4.     Section I.B. 1. of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:
"l.    The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to, carry out Part 2 of the Project, in
accordance with the provisions of:
(a)    this Agreement;
(b)    the Subsidiary Agreement; and


﻿-3-
(c)    the Operational Manual."
5.     Section I.C. 1. of Schedu .e 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:
"1.    The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to carry out the Project, in accordance
with the terms of a manual satisfactory to the Association (the Operational
Manual). Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall,
and shall cause FPS to, not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational
Manual or any provision thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of this
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail."
6.     Section I.C.2. paragraph (f) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and
replaced in its entirety to read as follows:
"(f)   guidelines for the carrying out of rehabilitation and reconstruction works under
the Project."
7.     Section I.E. of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended to add two new
paragraphs (and the existig paragraph is consequently renumbered) to read as follows:
"1.    The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to: (a) implement the Project in
accordance with the ESMF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said ESMF for
environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the
Project civil works, including the procedures for the preparation of
environmental management plans, when applicable; and (c) implement and/or
cause to be implemented the pertinent environmental management plan, when
applicable, in accordance with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Association.
2.     The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to, ensure that: (a) any works to
be carried out under the Project do not involve Resettlement; and (b) (i)
mechanisms are in place to address the culturally specific needs of the
Recipient's Indigenous Peoples groups; (ii) the benefits of the Project are
culturally appro-riate; and (iii) there is broad community support for the
Project."
8.     The table in Section IV.2. of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to: (a)  reflect
the cancellation by the Recipient in the amount of SDR 3,936,099.19; and (b) reallocate
Credit proceeds. Consequently, the revised table is hereby replaced to read as follows:


﻿-4-
Amount of the Initial     Amount of the          Percentage of
Credit            Additional Credit        Expenditures
Allocated              Allocated           to be Financed
"Category                          (expressed in SDR)      (expressed in SDR)    (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, consultants' services,       680,108.00            200,000.00                   100%
Training and VPC Operating Costs
under Part 1 of the Project, including
audits
(2) (a) Works and Consultant Services     666,734.00                0.00                   100%
under Part 2 (a) (i) of the Project;
(b) Works and consultants services   2,479,350.00                0.00                   100%
under Part 2 (a) (ii) of the Project,
including audits;
(c) works, goods and consultant             0.00            193,082.00                  100%
services under part 2 (c) (i) of the
Project;
(d) works, goods and consultant             0.00         2,154,645.00                  100%
services under part 2 (c) (ii) of the
Project;
(e) FPS Operating Costs under Part 2  236,842.00           152,273.00            5% of the total cost of
of the Project                                                                   the civil works under
Part 2 of the Project paid
in tranches as set forth in
the Operational Manual
(3) Refund of Project Preparation           866.81                   0.00             Amount payable
Advance                                                                         pursuant to Section 2.07
of the General
Conditions
SUBTOTAL AMENDED                      4,063,900.81            2,700,000.00
AMOUNT
Cancelled amount as of March 6, 2012      3,936,099.19               0.00
ORIGINAL CREDIT AMOUNT                    8,000,000.00          2,700,000.00"
9.     Section IV.B.5. of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:


﻿-5 -
"5.    The Closing Date is May 15, 2013."
10.    Section I of the Appendix is hereby amended as follows:
(a)    The following definition is deleted (and the existing definitions are consequently
renumbered to keep the alphabetical order):
""Prefectura" me ins the departmental representation of the Recipient's executive
branch, as established in the Recipient's Law No. 1654, dated July 28, 1995 and
published in the Recipient's Official Gazette on the same date."
(b)    The following definitions are amended and replaced in their entirety to read as
follows:
(i)    ""Implementing Entities" means any of the Recipient's municipalities,
Autonomous Departmental Governments or other public entities which
meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to carry
out civil works under Part 2 of the Project."
(ii)   ""VIDECI" means Viceministerio de Defensa Civil, the Vice-Ministry of
Civil Defense, within the Recipient's Ministry of Defense, created
pursuant to the Recipient's Law No. 2446, dated March 19, 2003, and the
Recipient's Supreme Decree No.29894, dated February 7, 2009."
(iii)  ""VPC" reans Viceministerio de Planificaci6n y Coordinaci6n, the Vice
Ministry of Planning and Coordination within the Recipient's Ministry of
Development Planning, created pursuant to the Recipient's Law No.
3351, dated February 21, 2006 and the Recipient's Supreme Decree No.
29894, dated February 7, 2009."
(c)    The following definitions are added, placed in alphabetical order, (and the
existing definitions are consequently renumbered to keep the alphabetical order)
to read as follows:
(i)    ""Autonomous Departmental Governments" means any      of the
autonomcus departmental governments of the Recipient, as established
in the Recipient's Constitution (Article 277), dated January 25, 2009 and
the Autonomies and Decentralization Law, Ley Marco de Autonomias y
Descentralizaci6n, dated July 19, 2010 and published in the Recipient's
Official Gazette on July 19, 2010."
(ii)   ""ESMF" means the Recipient's environmental and social management
framework, dated November 14, 2007, acceptable to the Association,
which co itains the environmental protection measures in respect of the
Project including: (A) guidelines for the identification of existing


﻿-6-
environmental conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental
impacts resulting from the carrying out of the Project; (B) guidelines for
the carrying out of environmental assessments and the preparation of
environmental management plans, when applicable; (C) the
recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact
identified; and (D) measures for enhancing each identified positive
impacts, as may be amended from time to time with the Association's
prior approval."
(iii)  ""Indigenous Peoples" means distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural
groups possessing any of the following characteristics: (A) self-
identification as a members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and
recognition of this identity by others; (B) collective attachment to
geographically distinct habitat or ancestral territories in the areas covered
by Project activities, and/or to natural resources in these habitats and
territories; (C) customary cultural, economic, social or political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and
culture; or (D) an indigenous language."
(iv)   ""Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under
the Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (A)
standard of living adversely affected; or (B) right, title or interest in any
house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any
other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or
permanently; or (C) access to productive assets adversely affected,
temporarily or permanently; or (D) business, occupation, work or place
of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and returning to
us the enclosed copy of this amendment letter. This amendment letter shall be executed in two
counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
The provisions set forth herein shall become effective upon receipt by the Association of a fully
executed original of this amendment letter.


﻿-7-
Please also note that the restructuring paper dated May 23, 2012 will be disclosed on the
Bank's external website as per the Bank's policy on access to information.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Susan G. Goldmark
Director
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
By:
Authorize Rep esentative
Name:        vi    a   Hinoiosa
IlMgM DE jUNAICA16N
Title:        DEL DESARROLLO
Date:       J 5 AGO 2012


﻿-8-
Attachment A
AMENDED AND RESTATED
CREDIT NUMBER 4377-BO
CREDIT NUMBER 4440-BO
Financing Agreement
(Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project)
between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 11, 2008, as amended and restated on November 18,2008 and
T         3     ,2012


﻿-9-
CREDIT NUMBER 4377-BO
CREDIT NUMBER 4440-BO
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT       dated   February  11,   2008   entered  into  between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA (the "Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATICN (the "Association"), as amended and restated on
November 18, 2008 and   0T               2012. The Recipient and the Association
hereby agree as follows:      U
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an initial credit in an amount equivalent
to eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000) (Initial Financing or
Initial Credit), and an additional credit in an amount equivalent to two million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,700,000) (Additional
Financing or Additional Credit) (collectively Financing or Credit) to assist in
financing the project desc:-ibed in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 :o this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum. The Commitmen: Charge with respect to the Initial Financing accrued
from a date sixty (60) deys after the date of this Agreement; the Commitment
Charge with respect to the Additional Financing accrued from a date sixty (60)
days of the restated date of this Agreement.
2.04.  The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿- 10-
2.06. The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07. The Payment Currency is Dollars.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through VPC and VIDECI, and with
the assistance of FPS and the Implementing Entities, in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a)    FPS or the Implementing Entities shall have failed, in the opinion of the
Association, to perform any of their obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement or the Implementation Agreements, as the case may be.
(b)    The Procurement Supreme Decree has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to render its Article 42 (a)
ineffective, in the opinion of the Association, and no provision analogous
to such Article 42 (a) has been adopted to replace said provision.
(c)    The Implementation Agreements or any of its provisions have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of
the FPS and the Implementing Entities to perform its obligations as
contemplated under the provisions of this Agreement.
4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to
the Recipient.


﻿ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. The Additional Condition, of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)    The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient
and FPS.
(b)    The Operational Manual has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
5.02. The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and
FPS and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the FPS in accordance with its
terms.
5.03. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association's approval of the
Credit which expire on June 22, 2009.
5.04. For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Recipieit under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01. The Recipient's Representative is its Minister of Development Planning.
6.02. The Recipient's Address ii:
Ministerio de Planificaci6-i del Desarrollo
Viceministerio de Inversi6n P6blica y Financiamiento Externo (VIPFE)
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso I1
La Paz, Bolivia
Facsimile:
011-591-2-231-7408 (with a copy to: 011-591-2-239-2891)


﻿- 12 -
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:               Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Mario Gustavo GuzmAn Saldafla
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support the Recipient in the
implementation of its National Plan for Sustainable Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
following the El Niflo 2006-2007 event; and (ii) to strengthen the Recipient's ability to
respond to future adverse natural events.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Policy Developm,-nt for Sustainable Reconstruction
(a)    Provision of technical assistance to improve the Recipient's disaster
vulnerability and recovery program, including the prioritization of
rehabilitation works, institutional strengthening and capacity building
within the Recipient's municipalities, Autonomous Departmental
Governments and the Recipient's sectoral ministries, and the carrying
out of coordination activities between the national and local
governments.
(b)    Development and implementation of methodologies for risk management
and risk mitigation and their incorporation in the Recipient's territorial
planning, including: (i) the carrying out of pilot projects which integrate
risk management concepts; (ii) the drafting of a law for the incorporation
of risk management into territorial planning; and (iii) the development of
a national framework for resettlement of people living in areas of
recurrent non-mitigable risks of natural disasters.
(c)    Development of information collection, management systems, and
communications to improve risk identification and management.
(d)    Systematization  and  analysis of the Recipient's National Risk
Management System, including: (i) the drafting of legislation to
formalize recovery operations responsibilities and authorities at the
national, subnational and sectoral level; (ii) development of a
methodology and implementation models for the execution of emergency
work; and (iii) carrying out of workshops and training events on cross-
sectoral considerations.
(e)    Provision of technical assistance for the institutional strengthening at the
sectoral and terribrial level to improve communication and participation
in future recovery operations, including: (i) provision of technical
assistance for the creation of sectoral risk management units; (ii)
strengthening and development of disaster risks management units at the


﻿- 14 -
territorial level; and (iii) provision of technical assistance to VPC for the
organization, design, development, and integration of a sectoral focused
program for risk management.
Part 2. Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Works
(a)    Carrying out of: (i) civil works costing less than $20,000 equivalent; and
(ii) civil works costing more than $20,000 equivalent, for the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the infrastructure damaged by the El
Nifho 2006-07 event in the Recipient's territory.
(b)    Provision of technical assistance and engineering support to the
Implementing Entities, to assist with the planning, design and
supervision of the works referred to in Part 2 (a) above and 2 (c) below.
(c)    Financing of goods and carrying out of: (i) civil works costing less than
$20,000 equivalent; and (ii) civil works costing more than $20,000
equivalent, for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the infrastructure
damaged by La Nifia 2007-08 event in the Recipient's territory.
(d)    Provision of operating costs to FPS for the implementation of works
under Part 2 of the Project and carrying out of FPS audits.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.    Implementation Arrangements
A.     Subsidiary Agreement aad Implementation Agreements
1.     To facilitate the carrying aut of Part 2 of the Project by FPS, the Recipient shall
make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to FPS through a subsidiary
agreement to be entered between the Recipient and FPS, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia, FPS's obligation
to provide all the necessary information and documentation to VPC related to the
implementation of Part 2 of the Project (including but not limited to, the
information required for compliance with Section III.D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement) ("Subsidiary Agreement").
2.     The Recipient shall main-:ain all of the necessary conditions for FPS to comply
with its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
3.     Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I above, the FPS shall enter
into an agreement with each of the Implementing Entities ("Implementation
Agreement"), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role and
responsibilities of the Implementing Entities in the carrying out of civil works
under Part 2 of the Projecl.
4.     The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and the
Implementation Agreements, as the case may be, in such a manner as to protect
the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Financing. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Subsidiary
Agreement or any Implementation Agreement or any of its provisions.
5.    In the case of a conflict between the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement or
the Implementation Agreements and the provisions of this Agreement, the
Recipient will ensure that the provisions of this Agreement will prevail.
B.     Institutional and Other Arrangements
1.     The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to, carry out Part 2 of the Project, in
accordance with the proviions of:
(d)    this Agreement;
(e)    the Subsidiary Agreement; and


﻿- 16 -
(f)    the Operational Manual.
2.     At all times during the execution of the Project, VPC shall maintain a qualified
team responsible for the implementation of the Project, with functions,
responsibilities and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, including the
following responsibilities:
(a)    overall planning, coordination and monitoring of Project activities; and
(b)    the updating of the Procurement Plan and the elaboration of the annual
implementation plan.
3.     At all times during the execution of the Project, the Recipient shall cause FPS to
maintain qualified staff responsible for the implementation of Part 2 of the
Project, including the carrying out of quality control activities, coordination,
monitoring and oversight of Part 2 of the Project.
4.     The Recipient shall establish and thereafter maintain during the implementation
of the Project, a steering committee comprised of representatives of the Ministry
of Planning and Development and the Recipient's civil defense department, with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, including the
overall supervision of the Project.
C.     Operational Manual
1 .    The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to carry out the Project, in accordance
with the terms of a manual satisfactory to the Association (the Operational
Manual). Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall,
and shall cause FPS to, not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational
Manual or any provision thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of this
Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement
shall prevail.
2.     The Operational Manual shall include provisions detailing procedures and
guidelines for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)    the procedures for the preparation, review and approval of reports
pursuant to the Project's financial management arrangements;
(b)    procurement and contracting procedures consistent with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, to be applicable to the contracts for the works, goods,
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit;


﻿- 17-
(c)    Project impact and implementation indicators and the procedures for the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including for compliance with
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(d)    the procedures fcr the Recipient's preparation, review and approval of
Credit proceeds withdrawal applications to the Association, in
conformity with the instructions that the Association may give to the
Recipient in this respect;
(e)    the eligibility criteria for the selection of the Implementing Entities
which will assist FPS in the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project; and
(f)    guidelines for the carrying out of rehabilitation and reconstruction works
under the Project.
D.     Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E.     Safeguard Policies
1 .    The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to: (a) implement the Project in
accordance with the ESMF; (b) adopt the procedures detailed in said ESMF for
environmental screening, evaluation, implementation and monitoring of the
Project civil works, i-icluding the procedures for the preparation of
environmental management plans, when applicable; and (c) implement and/or
cause to be implemented the pertinent environmental management plan, when
applicable, in accordance with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the
Association.
2.     The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to, ensure that: (a) any works to be
carried out under the Project do not involve Resettlement; and (b): (i)
mechanisms are in place to address the culturally specific needs of the
Recipient's Indigenous Peoples groups; (ii) the benefits of the Project are
culturally appropriate; and (iii) there is broad community support for the Project.
3.     If required by the Association, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out an environmental
assessment and a social assessment, both in accordance with the Association's
policies; and (ii) carry out preventive and/or remedial actions as recommended
by such assessments, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 18-
F.     Other Covenants
The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, the
units referred to in paragraph B.3 of Section IV to this Schedule.
Section II.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
or cause to be prepared Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Indicators. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period
covered by such report. The Recipient shall review the most recent Project
Report with the Association during the Association's semi-annual meetings with
the Recipient, or on such later dates as the Association may request.
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.     The Recipient shall maintain (or cause to be maintained) a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2.     The Recipient shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and furnish to the
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
un-audited financial reports for each Part of the Project covering the calendar
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
3.     The Recipient shall, through VPC, and shall cause FPS to, have the Financial
Statements for each part of the project to be audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient for
the respective part of the Project, commencing with the earlier of: (a) the fiscal
year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was
made; and (b) the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under this Agreement
was made. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such
period.
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1.     Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance


﻿- 19 -
with the requirements se t forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the prcceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, with the provisions of this Section and with the provisions
of Section II of Annex A lo this Schedule.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.    International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set forth in Section I of Annex
A to this Schedule 2.
(b)  Shopping.
(c)  Direct Contracting.
(d)  Community Participation in Procurement (in the
case of procurement carried out by Communities to
whom a Recipient's municipality has entrusted the
carrying out of all or part of works under Part 2 of
the Project as established in the Operational
Manual).


﻿- 20 -
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1. Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-based Selection.
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget.
(c)  Least Cost Selection.
(d)  Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications.
(e)  Single Source Selection.
(f)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of
the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
(g)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1 .    The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Association.
2.     Annual Procurement Audits. The Recipient, through VPC, shall:
(a)    not later than August 31 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on August 31, 2009, contract independent auditors
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association,
operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to
perform a procurement audit of all the procurement records and
documentation for the Project, relating to the Recipient's previous fiscal


﻿-21 -
year of implemertation of the Project, in accordance with procurement
auditing principles acceptable to the Association ("Procurement Audit");
(b)    not later than December 31 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on December 31, 2009 and continuing for each year
thereafter during the implementation of the Project, furnish to the
Association the report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, on the Procurement Audit completed for the Recipient's
prior fiscal year;
(c)    at all times during the implementation of the Project, furnish to the
Association and to the auditors performing a Procurement Audit such
other  information  concerning  the  procurement  records  and
documentation for the Project as the Association or the auditors may
from time to time reasonably request; and
(d)    not later than Janiary 31 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, beginning on January 31, 2010, exchange views with the
Association on the results of the Procurement Audit completed for the
Recipient's prior fiscal year and thereafter implement such recommended
measures, taking into account the Association's views on the matter.
Section IV.   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.     General
1. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as :he Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the       Amount of the      Percentage of
Initial Credit    Additional Credit    Expenditures
Allocated           Allocated       to be Financed
Category              (expressed in SDR)  (expressed in SDR)  (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, consultants' services,    680,108.00        200,000.00             100%
Training and VPC Operating
Costs under Part 1 of the
Project, including audits
(2) (a) Works and Consultant          666,734.00            0.00              100%
Services under Part 2 (a) (i) of
the Project;
(b) Works and consultants       2,479,350.00             0.00              100%
services under Part 2 (a) (ii) of
the Project, including audits;
(c) works, goods and consultant        0.00         193,082.00             100%
services under part 2 (c) (i) of
the Project;
(d) ) works, goods and consultant      0.00       2,154,645.00             100%
services under part 2 (c) (ii) of
the Project;
(e) FPS Operating Costs under    236,842.00         152,273.00       5% of the total cost
Part 2 of the Project                                                 of the civil works
under Part 2 of the
Project paid in
tranches as set forth
in the Operational
Manual
(3) Refund of Project Preparation       866.61              0.00          Amount payable
Advance                                                              pursuant to Section
2.07 of the General
Conditions
SUBTOTAL AMENDED                    4,063,900.81        2,700,000.00
AMOUNT
Cancelled amount as of March 6,     3,936,099.19            0.00
2012
ORIGINAL CREDIT AMOUNT           8,000,000.00        2,700,000.00


﻿-23 -
For purposes of the table in paragraph 2 above, the terms:
(a)    "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for
consultants' services) incurred by VPC for the purposes of the Project
and directly related to training activities described in the Project,
including, inter alia, costs related to workshops, seminars, conferences,
study tours, traini rig registration fees, facility rentals, and travel costs and
per diems for VPC and FPS civil service officials or employees;
(b)    "FPS Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other
than those for consultants' services) incurred by FPS for the purposes of
the Project and d:rectly related to the activities described in the Project,
including, inter alia, salaries of staff, office materials and supplies,
operation and maintenance of office equipment, insurance, vehicle and
equipment operation, bank charges on the Designated Account,
transportation, phone and fax charges, media campaigns and printing of
materials; and
(c)    "VPC Operationil Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures
(other than those for consultants' services) incurred by VPC for the
purposes of the Project and directly related to the activities described in
the Project, including, inter alia, office materials and supplies,
transportation, phone and fax charges, media campaigns and printing of
materials.
B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawals shall be
made for payments made -rior to the date of this Agreement, except that: (i)
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made one year prior to such date but in no case before
September 24, 2007 for Categories (1), 2(a), 2(b), 2(e) and (3) of the table in
paragraph A above; and (ii) withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,760,000 equivalent may be made for payments made one year prior to such
date but in no case before January 21, 2008 for Categories 2(c) and 2 (d) of the
table in paragraph A above.
2.     No withdrawals shall be made for payments under Categories 2 (a), 2 (b), 2 (c)
and 2 (d) of the table in paragraph A above, until the respective Implementation
Agreement with the Implementing Entity has been executed.
3.     No withdrawals shall be made for payments under Categories 2 (b) and 2 (d) of
the table in paragraph A above, until FPS has established to the satisfaction of the


﻿- 24 -
Association: (a) the control and monitoring unit under FPS's executive office; (b)
the environmental unit; and (c) the procurement monitoring unit.
4.     The Recipient, through VPC, shall review and adjust annually, or at any other
time agreed with the Association, the FPS Operating Costs. Such adjustment
shall be unnecessary if the Association is satisfied that said review reveals no
change in FPS Operating Costs.
5.    The Closing Date is May 15, 2013.


﻿-25-
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to
Particular Methods of Procurement
Section I.   Goods and Worls
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all goods and
works procured for the Project (pursuant to Section III.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement) under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB Contracts"):
I.    A merit point system shal not be used in the pre-qualification of bids.
2.     The award of goods and vorks contracts shall be based exclusively on price and,
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid
evaluation shall always le based on factors that can be quantified objectively,
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to
bid.
3.     The Recipient shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.     The Recipient shall use a ;ingle envelope procedure.
5.     Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of
a bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be
declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids
have been determined not to be responsive.
7.     Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents)
that are at least substantiEally equivalent to the national standards and technical
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.     Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.     Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.


﻿- 26 -
10.    No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.   In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second
lowest responsive evaluated bid.
12.    Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter
into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
13.    No other procurement rules or regulations of the Recipient's agencies or of any
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the
Association.
Section II.   Selection of Consultant Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the Consultant
Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all consultants' services
procured for the Project (pursuant to Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement):
1.     As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall
not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants,
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.1.2 of the Consultant Guidelines are
met.
2.     As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall
not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such
proposals with the Recipient's authorities.
3.     Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Recipient's
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoria).
4.     Consultants (firms and individuals) shall not be required to present bid and
performance securities as a condition to present proposals and sign a contract.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
1.    For the Initial Financing:
Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
Date Payment Due                       (expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 15 and August 15:
Commencing February 15, 2018                           1.25%
to and including August 15, 2027.
Commencing February 15, 2028                           2.50%
to and including August 15, 2042.
* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.
2.    For the Additional Financing:
Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
Date Payment Due                       (expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 15 and August 15:
Commencing August 15, 2018                             1.25%
to and including February 15, 2028.
Commencing August 15, 2028                             2.50%
to and including February 15, 2043.
* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.


﻿-28-
APPENDIX
Section I.   Definitions
1.    "Additional Credit" or "Additional Financing" means the additional credit
referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
2.     "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006.
3.     "Autonomous Departmental Governments" means any of the autonomous
departmental governments of the Recipient, as established in the Recipient's
Constitution (Article 277), dated January 25, 2009 and the Autonomies and
Decentralization Law, Ley Marco de Autonomias y Descentralizaci6n, dated
July 19, 2010 and published in the Recipient's Official Gazette on July 19, 2010.
4.     "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
5.     "Communities" means any of the Recipient's communities with legal personality
and organized structure which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual to carry out all or part of works under Part 2 of the Project.
6.     "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006.
7.     "ESMF" means the Recipient's environmental and social management
framework dated November 14, 2007, acceptable to the Association, which
contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project,
including: (A) guidelines for the identification of existing environmental
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts resulting from
the carrying out of the Project (B) guidelines for the carrying out of
environmental assessments and the preparation of environmental management
plans, when applicable; (C) the recommendation of mitigation measures for each
negative impact identified; and (D) measures for enhancing each identified
positive impacts, as may be amended from time to time with the Association's
prior approval.
8.    "FPS" means Fondo Nacional de Inversi6n Productiva y Social, the Recipient's
national productive and social investment fund established pursuant to Article 14
of the Recipient's Supreme Decree No. 25984, dated November 16, 2000.


﻿- 29 -
9.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
through October 15, 2006).
10.    "Implementation Agreements" means the agreements referred to in Section I.A.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be entered between FPS and the
Implementing Entities.
11.    "Implementing Entities' means any   of the Recipient's municipalities,
Autonomous Departmental Governments or other public entities which meet the
eligibility criteria set fortih in the Operational Manual to carry out civil works
under Part 2 of the Project.
12.    "Indicators" means the irnpact and implementation indicators set forth in the
Operational Manual.
13.    "Indigenous Peoples" m.ans distinct, vulnerable, social and cultural groups
possessing any of the following characteristics: (A) self-identification as a
members of a distinct incigenous cultural group and recognition of this identity
by others; (B) collective attachment to geographically distinct habitat or ancestral
territories in the areas co,ered by Project activities, and/or to natural resources in
these habitats and territories; (C) customary cultural, economic, social or political
institutions that are separate from those of the dominant society and culture; or
(D) an indigenous language.
14.    "Initial Credit" or "Initfil Financing" means the initial credit referred to in
Section 2.01 of this Agrecment.
15.    "National Plan for Sustainable Rehabilitation and Reconstruction" means Plan de
Reconstrucci6n y Rehab.litacidn Sostenible (PRES), the Recipient's plan for
rehabilitation and reconstruction, established after the El Nino 2006-2007 event,
pursuant to the Recipient's Decree 29040, dated February 28, 2007.
16.    "National Risk Management System" means Sistema Nacional para la
Reduccidn de Riesgos y Atenci6n de Desastres y/o Emergencias, the Recipient's
prevention and emergency management system set by the Recipient's Law No.
2140, dated October 25, 2000.
17.    "Operational Manual" mcans the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
18.    "Procurement Guidelines." means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October, 2006.


﻿-30-
19.    "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 14, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
20.    "Procurement Supreme Decree" means the Recipient's Supreme Decree No.
29190 (Decreto Supremo No 29190) of July 11, 2007, as amended and as in
effect on the date of this Agreement.
21.    "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on December 13, 2007
and on behalf of the Recipient on January 8, 2008.
22.    "Resettlement" means the impact of an involuntary taking of land under the
Project, which taking causes affected persons to have their: (A) standard of living
adversely affected; or (B) right, title or interest in any house, land (including
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (C) access to productive
assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (D) business,
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, temporarily
or permanently.
23.    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of
the proceeds of the Financing available to FPS.
24.    "VIDECI" means Viceministerio de Defensa Civil, the Vice-Ministry of Civil
Defense, within the Recipient's Ministry of Defense, created pursuant to the
Recipient's Law No. 2446, dated March 19, 2003, and the Recipient's Supreme
Decree No.29894, dated February 7, 2009.
25.    "VPC" means Viceministerio de Planficacidn y Coordinaci6n, the Vice Ministry
of Planning and Coordination within the Recipient's Ministry of Development
Planning, created pursuant to the Recipient's Law No. 3351, dated February 21,
2006 and the Recipient's Supreme Decree No. 29894, dated February 7, 2009.


