The World Bank                                 1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
OFFIIAL     I           October 1, 2013
DOCUMENTS                        BO~
His Excellency
Viviana Caro Hinojosa,
Minister
Ministry of Planning and Development
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz No. 1092
Edificio Ex-COMIBOL Piso 5
La Paz, Bolivia
Re: Credit No. 4377- BOLIVIA: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
Additional Instructions: Restated Disbursement Letter
I refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") between the International
Development Association ("World Bank"), and the Republic of Bolivia (the "Recipient") for the
above-referenced project, dated February 11, 2008. The Agreement provides that the World
Bank may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of
aforementioned financing ("Financing"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from
time to time, constitutes the Additional Instructions.
This letter is the First Restatement of the Disbursement Letter dated February 11, 2008
for the above referenced project, restating Section II (ii) to update the address where withdrawal
application should be sent and updating Section II (iii) with the latest provisions for electronic
delivery including the related attachments. All other provisions and attachments of the
Disbursement Letter dated February 11, 2008, shall remain in force and effect.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. The manner in
which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Financing is specified below.
Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and subsections in
the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the capitalized terms
used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Financing:
* Reimbursement
* Advances
* Direct Payment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4
months after the Closing Date specified in the Financing Agreement. Any changes to this date
will be notified by the World Bank.


﻿(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.7). Please refer to the Disbursement Condition(s)
in Schedule 2, section IV, B, of the Financing Agreement.
II. Withdrawal of Financing Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 1) should
be furnished to the World Bank at the address indicated below providing the name(s) and
specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Attention: C. Felipe Jaramillo, Director
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal together with supporting documents required, to the address indicated below:
Banco Mundial
Setor Comercial Norte
Quadra 02, Lote A
Edificio Corporate Finance Center
70 andar
70712-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The Association may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the Association Applications (with supporting documents) through the
Association's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
Association by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the
Association for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such
officials designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the
Association agrees, the Association will provide the Recipient with SIDC for the designated
officials. Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by
completing   Form    2380,   which    is  accessible  through   Client   Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of
preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The Association reserves the right and
may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Applications. By designating officials to
use SIDC and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms
through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of
Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure


﻿Identification Credentials") provided in Attachment 2; and (b) to cause such official to abide by
those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value ofApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications for
Direct Payment and Reimbursement is US$50,000 for VPEP and US$100,000 for FPS.
(vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6) to the Vice Ministry of Strategic Long Term Planning
(VPEP).
* Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3). Segregated
*  Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): US Dollars
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Central Bank of Bolivia
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1). USD $300,000
(vii) Advances (sections 5 and 6) to Productive & Social Investment Fund (FPS).
* Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3): Segregated
*  Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): US Dollars
*  Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Central Bank of Bolivia
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): USD $1,300,000
III. Reporting on Use of Financing Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement:
o Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices) for payments made under contracts for:
> Civil works costing US$3,000,000 equivalent per contract or more;
> Goods costing US$200,000 equivalent per contract or more;
> Consultant firms costing US$100,000 equivalent per contract or more;
and
> Individual consultants costing US$25,000 equivalent or more;
o  Customized Statement of Expenditure for payments of FPS's administrative
costs in accordance with the other instructions included in this letter;
o  Statement of Expenditure for payments that do not exceed the thresholds
established above; and
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review.


﻿* For requests for Advances to a Designated Account:
o Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices) for payments made under contracts for:
> Civil works costing US$3,000,000 equivalent per contract or more;
> Goods costing US$200,000 equivalent per contract or more;
> Consultant firms costing US$100,000 equivalent per contract or more;
and
> Individual consultants costing US$25,000 equivalent or more;
o  Customized Statement of Expenditure for payments of FPS's administrative
costs in accordance with the other instructions included in this letter;
o  Statement of Expenditure for payments that exceed the thresholds established
above;
o Designated Account Activity Statement in the form attached;
o Copy of the Designated Account Bank Statement; and
o List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review.
* For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices).
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): Monthly for the VPEP and Quarterly for the FPS
IV. Other Disbursement Instructions
FPS's administrative costs will be disbursed following an output-based disbursement
mechanism, which consists of disbursing on the basis of out-puts up to 5% on the total cost of
the sub-project. This 5% (which breakdown is presented in Annex 4 of this EPP) will be
disbursed as follows:
*  2.25% for sub-projects with contract signed
* 2.25% for sub-projects under implementation
* 0.50 % for sub-projects with administrative closing
* A fixed amount of Bs 1,300 for each sub-project under U$ 5,000, completed and
reimbursed to the municipality.
To this end, FPS will prepare customized SOE report in the form attached. Each report will
detail the following:
i)    the list of sub-projects under US$5,000 completed and reimbursed;
ii)   the list of sub-projects with contracts signed;
iii)  the amounts disbursed for each subproject under execution for a defined period of
time; and
iv)   the list of sub-projects completed with administrative closing.
These reports will be submitted periodically to the VPEP, which would express conformity on
the outputs completed by FPS, per an agreed upon procedure.


﻿V. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement  Handbook    available  on  the  World   Bank's   public  website  at
http://www.worldbank.org  and   its   secure  website   "Client   Connection"   at
http://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (http://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you
will be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Financing, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. For more information about the
website and registration arrangements, please contact Maria Claudia Encinas Ossio at
cencinas@worldbank.org of the World Bank Bolivia country office in La Paz.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact the World Bank Loan
Department by sending a message to loa-lcr@worldbank.org and placing the project name and
credit number in the subject line.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Patricia Hoyes
Senior Finance Officer
World Bank Loan Department


﻿Attachments
I l.Form for Authorized Signatures
I 2.Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials (SIDC) in connection with
Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated
March 1, 2013
Cc with copies: Luis Arce Catacora, Minister, Ministry of Economy and Finance
Humberto Arandia., Vice Minister, Vice Ministry of Strategic Long Term Planning
Manuel Pacheco, Project Coordinator, Vice Ministry of Strategic Long Term Planning
Isidoro Collisaya, Vice Minister, Vice Ministry of Territorial Planning and Environment
Josi Camargo, Vice Minister, Vice Ministry of Public Investment and External Finance
Fernando Jimknez, Director of External Financing, Vice Ministry of Public Investment
and External Finance
Corali Cucilayme, External Financing Analyst, Vice Ministry of Public Investments and
External Financing
Vladimir Sanchez, Executive Director, Productive and Social Investment Fund
Juan Carlos Munguia, Financial Manager, Productive and Social Investment Fund


﻿Attachment 1
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
[Street address]
[City] [Country]
[DATE]
The World Bank
[address]
Dear [Country Director]:
Re: IDA Credit No.
(Project Name)
I refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") between [name] (the "Recipient") and
the International Development Association (the "World Bank") , dated _, providing the
above Financing. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions, as defined in the
Agreement, any ['one] of the persons whose authenticated specimen signatures appear below is
authorized on behalf of the Recipient to sign applications for withdrawal under this Financing.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Association, 2[each] of the persons
whose authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the Recipient,
acting 3[individually] 4[jointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support thereof on the
terms and conditions specified by the Association.
5[This confirms that the Recipient is authorizing such persons to accept Tokens and to
deliver the Applications and supporting documents to the Association by electronic means. In
full recognition that the Association shall rely upon such representations and warranties,
including without limitation, the representations and warranties contained in the Terms and
Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens"), the Recipient represents and warrants to the Association that it will deliver to each
1 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association
2 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please  -
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
4 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
5 Instruction to the Recipient: Add this paragraph if the Recipient wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Tokens and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please delete the paragraph. Please
delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿such person a copy of the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens and will cause such persons to
abide by those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the
Association records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]  Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]  Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]  Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Attachment 2
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices
in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)6 will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the
Borrower7 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under
the Agreement(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
documentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token).
The Bank reserves the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.    Identification of Users.
1. The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL)
duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver
Applications. The Bank will provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if
a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2. Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on
CC will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The
Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC
Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be
assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.    Initialization of SIDC.
1.              Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge
having read, understood and agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
2.              Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical
Token, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and
register his/her Physical Token and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used
in connection with the use of his/her Physical Token, after which the Physical Token will
be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering
6 "Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
7 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.


﻿Applications. Where a Soft Token is to be used, the Signatory will access CC using
his/her account name and CC Password and set a personal identification number (PIN) to
be used in connection with the use of his/her Soft Token, after which the Soft Token will
be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering
Applications. Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a "SIDC User". The
Bank will maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC User for
purposes of managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the SIDC
User will have any access to the Account.
3.              Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that
the SIDC User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.    Use of SIDC.
1. Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the
SIDC User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms
and Conditions. Any other use of the SIDC is prohibited.
2.              The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of
the SIDC by the SIDC User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.              The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank
(such representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting
SIDC) that each SIDC User understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions
of Use, including without limitation the following:
4.    Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Physical Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnection@worldbank.org.
4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at
clientconnectionkworldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised SIDC, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC are disabled immediately.
5. Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to
use a SIDC for any reason.


﻿5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a SIDC, de-activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6. Care of Physical Tokens
6.1. Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2. The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated to
receive one in a manner to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3. Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore
should be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to
extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Physical Tokens should be kept more than
five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile
phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical Tokens
should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5
cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper
operation of electronic equipment, including the Physical Token.
*6.4. Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care of Physical Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
7. Replacement
7.1. Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical
Tokens will be replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
7.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical
Token in the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.


