Report No. PID7397
Project Name                     China-Pension Reform Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Pensions
Project ID                       CNPE58308
Borrower                         Peoples Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor and Social Security
(MOLSS)
Date this PID Prepared           March 4, 1999
Projected Appraisal date         April 1, 1999
Projected Board date             May 31, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background.   The current formal pension system is a
largely pay-as-you-go, defined benefit system that covers mainly the state
sector in urban areas. The nonstate sector, which now accounts for more than
half the employment in many localities, has only spotty coverage. Though
localities are trying to bring the nonstate sector under the formal pension
system, most nonstate firms are resisting because current contribution rates
are so high and the benefits from the system so uncertain. Data available for
a range of provinces and municipalities indicate that the simple average of
contribution rates in 1994 was 23.59 to 25.99, which exceed international
norms. For the 11 industrial sectors exempted from municipal pension pools,
the average was just 15.9%. Noncompliance and exemptions account for much of
the disparity between costs and the contribution rates theoretically needed to
break even. Moreover, as contribution rates rise, compliance rates decline.
2.      China has gradually enacted forms of pension reform dating back to more
widespread economic policy changes in 1978. In 1986, pooling was established
on a limited basis across state enterprises at the municipal level.
Contributions began to be pooled but enterprises retained responsibility for
distributing pensions. In the late 1980s, pooling was extended to workers in
collectively owned enterprises in many cities. Since then, some joint
ventures, joint stock companies and foreign enterprises have been brought into
pension pools. In 1991, a State Council decision required individual
contributions by all workers, in addition to enterprise contributions, and for
experiments in individual accounts. The Decision also called for an expansion
of pooling and the establishment of three tiers in the pension system: a basic
benefit, a supplementary benefit provided by enterprises in sound financial
condition, and a benefit based on individual savings.
3.      The most recent framework for China's pension reform was established in
an August 1997 State Council Decision adopting a unified, publicly managed
system covering all urban workers. Unification is supposed to be in stages:
pension contributions would be pooled initially at the provincial level and
later at the national level, at which point occupational pension funds (funds
organized along sectoral lines across the country) would also be included.
Enterprises and workers now covered under separate plans or not at all would
be brought into a single system, with multiple funding channels. Key elements
of the Government's policy strategy are to: (i) establish a nationally unified
pension system; (ii) establish a system of individual accounts; (iii) separate



a basic pension which aims to set a floor of benefits, from a supplementary
pension which links to accumulated contributions; (iv) segregate pension
administration from investment management; (v) gradually pool individual funds
first at a municipal level and eventually at a provincial and national level;
and (vi) establish transition mechanisms for funds in deficit to maintain
sufficient benefit payments while achieving financial solvency. A key feature
of the Government's institutional strategy is to establish and strengthen
oversight institutions both at a provincial and national level.
4.      Although considerable progress has been made in realizing these
parameters, a number of important issues are not resolved. Contribution rates
continue to vary both by province as well as by municipality within some
provinces; individual pension accounts established in many communities remain
largely notional because contributions are still largely used to fund current
pensions; transition costs are not fully treated in the State Council
Document; the non-state sector and some industrial sectors with relatively
young work forces may resist participation/unification; and individual
accounts yield neither a market nor a positive real return so that the
accumulations in these accounts may or may not be sufficient to offer an
effective means of income smoothing.
5.      Project Objectives.   The objective of the project is to identify policy
reforms and administrative systems which can support a financial strategy for
sustainable pooled provincial pension systems. To achieve these objectives,
the project would: (i) develop an actuarial model, (ii) use the model to
assess the financial viability of the Qingdao municipal pension system and the
Heilongjiang provincial pension system according to existing parameters, (iii)
assess pension reform options, (iv) review regulations and other issues
connected with funded schemes in the two pilots; (v) review pension
administrative procedures including funds transfers, data collection,
processing and management in order to develop a procedural template; and (vi)
provide inputs to national policymakers on key parameters of policy and
implementation.
6.      Project Description.   Project components would likely include: (i)
Formation of policies and planning; (ii) development of pilot information
systems; and (iii) training in pensions oversight. The formation of policies
component would likely support 70 year projections for the municipal (Qingdao)
and provincial (Heilongjiang) levels of expected receipts from contributions
and other accrued income as well as payouts for benefits. This would include
projected cashflows for all four pension benefit systems - basic,
transitional, mandatory individual accounts and voluntary supplementary
accounts. Sensitivity analysis would test modifications to principal
actuarial assumptions and policy parameters. The information systems
component would support the development of revised administrative systems in
Qingdao and Heilongjiang. From a thorough evaluation of the objectives of
each of these pension systems, a procedures manual and administrative
development plan would be developed. Once such a plan is established, the
purchase of computer hardware, software and peripherals would be supported
under the project. The training component would support select training in
pension oversight for staff in the Qingdao Municipal Labour Bureau,
Heilongjiang Provincial Labour Bureau and MOLSS.
7.      Project Financing.   The estimated project cost would be US$ 6.0 million
equivalent, of which IDA would finance US$ 5.0 million equivalent. The
- 2 -



Government has established on-lending mechanisms by which project funds must
be repaid to the Ministry of Finance in order to set aside for funds for
repayment to IDA. The project has been designed to complement other donor-
assisted interventions, including those by the Asian Development Bank. Other
donor cofinancing is being explored.
8.      Project Implementation. Overall responsibility for the implementation and
coordination of the Project would be entrusted to the Ministry of Labour and
Social Security (MOLSS) who would be supported by administration and
coordination staff. A project implementation unit (PIU) would be established
to oversee the project would be responsible for ensuring policy consistency
across Government agencies involved in the project, coordinating
implementation and ensuring adequate financial management (procurement,
disbursement, accounting and audit) and general administration (monitoring the
implementation plan and reporting). The PIU would be responsible for the
execution of project activities and timely delivery of outputs as defined and
agreed under a Project Implementation Plan. Quarterly progress reports,
prepared on the basis of the project implementation plan and the logical
framework would be provided by each beneficiary agency to IDA under the
guidance of the PIU. IDA would carry out regular supervision missions and a
mid-term review at mutually agreed dates. Finally, Government will transmit a
completion report to IDA within six months of the Project closing date.
9.      Project Sustainability.   The project seeks to assist in the development
of strong, sustainable institutions as follows: (i) provincial and municipal
pension pools that that sustain themselves in terms cash flow sufficiency and
actuarial solvency, yet also do not render participating enterprises
uncompetitive; (ii) provincial and municipal agencies that manage pension
funds in an efficient and consistent manner; and (iii) national, provincial
and municipal oversight institutions that are able to demonstrate sustainable
institutional capacity and have the management systems to maintain that
capacity. Recognizing that strong institutions require years to develop, the
project aims to initiate a process that will maintain itself well beyond the
period of the credit. Indicators of sustainability will be established under
the Project Implementation Plan.
10.     Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement.    The project would
aim to draw on the results of pension reform technical assistance projects
undertaken to date. This project aims to incorporate: (i) simplicity of
design, based on well targeted objectives; well defined actions with
timetables for implementation; and clear evaluation criteria with monitorable
indicators; (ii) compatibility with the institutional absorptive capacity of
Government agencies and project beneficiaries; and (iii) stakeholder
involvement in the design and execution of the project.
11.     Environmental Aspects.   The project is not expected to present any
environmental risks and thus an environmental rating of "c" is proposed.
Neither an indigenous peoples plan nor resettlement plan will be developed.
12.     Program Objective Categories.   The project would primarily contribute to
the, financial intermediation and institutional development categories.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
- 3 -



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 5, 1999.
- 4 -



