                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 36024

                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (TF-25752 IDA-32410)

                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                   FOR A
                         PENSION REFORM PROJECT




                                 July 10, 2006




HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective December 29, 2005)

                    Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                               Y1 = US$ 0.12
                         US$ 1.00 = Y8.1

                          FISCAL YEAR
                  JANUARY 1       DECEMBER 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

         CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
         COEs                 Compensation of Employees
         ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
         FRR                  Financial Rate of Return
         ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
         IT                   Information Technology
         MOLSS                Ministry of Labor and Social Security
         NPV                  Net Present Value
         PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
         PMO                  Project Management Office
         PRC                  People's Republic of China
         PROST                Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit
         PSCPF                Projection System of China Pension Funds
         SARS                 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
         SOEs                 State Owned Enterprises




                   Vice President:     Jeffrey Gutman (EAPVP)
                Country Director:      David Dollar (EACCF)
Social Protection Sector Manager:      Ana Revenga (EASHD)
               Task Team Leader:       Yee Mun Sin (HDNSP)

                                            CHINA
                                   Pension Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 15
10. Additional Information                                                          15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               27
Annex 8. Appendices: Coverage and Contribution Data for Heilongjiang and Qingdao    28

Project ID: P058308                                                  Project Name: China Pension Reform Project
Team Leader: Yee Mun Sin                                             TL Unit: HDNSP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: July 11, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: China Pension Reform Project                             L/C/TF Number: TF-25752; IDA-32410
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (96%); Non-compulsory pensions,
                            insurance and contractual savings (4%)
                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/06/1999                                     Effective:                           10/25/2000
     Appraisal: 04/14/1999                                         MTR:                             09/23/2002
      Approval: 06/04/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL
                                           SECURITY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Tamar Manuelyan Atinc                          Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR:             Yee Mun Sin
ICR Primary Author:             Yasue Pai


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives and the design of the China Pension Reform Project are assessed in the context of: (i) their
contributions to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of social protection by assisting
the government in developing financially sustainable parameter for pension policies; and (ii) their support
of the government in overcoming the barriers to establishing a national unified, multi-pillar pension system,
and strengthening pension oversight institutions at the provincial and municipal level.

In 1997, the government introduced a new pension reform framework under State Council Document No.
26 with the goal of adopting a unified pension system for all urban workers. Specifically, Document No.
26 mandated the following:

   l implement a nationally unified pension system with multiple pillars, including a pay-as-you-go
         basic pillar which aims to provide a basic benefit, a fully funded individual account pillar which
         links benefits to an individual's lifetime contributions, and a voluntary supplementary pillar;

   l gradually achieve unification of system design in terms of contribution rates and benefits;


   l shift pension administration responsibilities from enterprises to local social insurance bureaus to
         strengthen financial control and improve service standards; and

   l ultimately move from pooling of the basic pension at the municipal to the provincial level.


At the time of this project inception, although progress had been made in implementing the new framework,
there were numerous barriers that needed to be resolved in order to promote speedier reform:

   l Contribution rates continued to vary by province, as well as between municipalities within most
         provinces.

   l Contribution rates amongst non-state enterprises varied between State Owned Enterprises (SOEs)
         and Compensation of Employees (COEs). Those enterprises with younger workforces were
         reluctant to participate in a system where they would be subsidizing enterprises with older
         workforces.

   l Individual pension accounts in many localities were essentially notional because contributions were
         being used to pay current beneficiaries.

   l Funds accumulated in individual accounts were invested in deposits and government bonds yielding
         returns that were not commensurate with wage growth.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project was to assist the Borrower to reform its pension system through the
formulation of a sustainable funding strategy and the improvement of pension systems in a pilot province
and a pilot city, in order to obtain experience and develop a template for the establishment of a national
unified pension system.




                                                      - 2 -

Alignment with CAS and government priorities. These project objectives reflect the Bank's CAS
objective of social protection by assisting the government in developing financially sustainable parameters
for pension policies, and are consistent with the policy priorities of the government to establish a unified
multi-pillar pension system that is sustainable in the long term.

Human development, comprising health, education and social protection, is one of five major themes of the
Bank's CAS for China. This project contributes to the CAS objective of social protection by assisting the
government in developing financially sustainable parameters for pension policies that lead to an improved
pension system.

Given the state of the pension reforms and the government's strategy to strengthen the pension system, the
project objectives were very much responsive to the Borrower's circumstances and priorities. The
provincial and municipal pilots were chosen because of their distinct circumstances. Heilongjiang was
chosen because it was a province whose demographic and economic circumstances made it particularly
difficult to find policy parameters resulting in financial sustainability. Heilongjiang's economy was a
proportionately large percentage of SOEs and almost all of such enterprises are covered in the existing
pension system. Moreover, Heilongjiang had limited automation and recognized weaknesses in
administrative systems at both the municipal and the provincial levels. Qingdao had a large SOE presence
with relatively high dependency rates, but also had rapid economic growth including a large growth in joint
ventures and private sector enterprises not covered by the pension system.

By focusing this project on reforms in Heilongjiang and Qingdao, the central government aimed to learn
from experiences in these localities and apply the lessons to the rest of the country. This is consistent with
the policy making process in the People's Republic of China (PRC) whereby policy reforms are often
piloted on a trial basis before being implemented on a national level.

Given the vast population size, the disparity between the provinces and municipalities, and the stage of
pension system development, reform can most sensibly take place by implementing pilot programs in select
cities or provinces as this project did. Limiting the project scope to Qingdao municipality and Heilongjiang
province brought focus and clarity to the project objectives and made objectives realistic and within reach.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of four components: (i) Policy Development; (ii) Information Systems; (iii) Training;
and (iv) Project Administration.

Component 1: Policy Development (US$0.7 million). This component aimed to support policy studies at
the central, provincial and municipal levels. Long-term financial projections of expected contributions and
other accrued income (interest income on assets held) and benefit payouts would be carried out at the
central, provincial (Heilongjiang) and municipal (Qingdao) levels. This would include projected cashflows
for all four pension system benefits - basic, transitional, mandatory individual accounts and voluntary
supplementary accounts. Sensitivity analysis would test modifications to, including: (i) effective
contribution rates; (ii) coverage rates and labor force growth; (iii) compliance rates; (iv) rates of real wage
growth; (v) rates of real returns accrued to pension accounts (interest rate assumption); (vi) adjustments to
retirement ages; (vii) adjustments to the transition formula applied; (viii) changes to the period of
distribution of individual account accumulations to more closely approximate municipal or provincial life
expectancies; and (ix) modification on the basis of indexation of pension benefits (wages to prices).
Multiple iterations of such projections aimed to indicate the feasibility of achieving a sustainable, albeit
partially-funded position over a 70-year period. These iterations would provide policy-makers with a sense
of the modifications or clarifications of policy necessary to achieve such viability and sustainability.



                                                      - 3 -

Parallel to the above financial sustainability analysis, studies and training would be undertaken with
support of project funds.

Component 2: Information Systems Development (US$4.2 million). This component aimed to support the
development of updated and revised information and related administrative systems in the Ministry of
Labor and Social Security (MOLSS), as well as in the Heilongjiang and Qingdao labour and social security
bureaus, respectively. The aim of such administrative reform and automation is to create greater capacity,
increase processing efficiency, strengthen control provisions and establish record-keeping and processing
capabilities.

Component 3: Training (US$0.9 million). This component aimed to support the identification by MOLSS
and by the Heilongjiang and Qingdao labour and social security bureaus of personnel skills requirements
and, thereafter, development and implementation of training programs to improve the skills of its personnel,
including in: (i) pension management and oversight; (ii) pension reform policy; (iii) financial projections
and modeling; and (iv) pension asset management. Training would only be supported provided they were
part of staff development plans at the Heilongjiang and Qingdao Labor and Social Security Bureaus and
MOLSS, respectively.

Component 4: Project Administration (US$0.5 million). This component would provide assistance in
project administration at the level of the MOLSS project implementation unit (PIU) and the project
management offices (PMO) in Heilongjiang and Qingdao, respectively. Financing would include support
for: (i) personnel costs associated with the PIU and PMO; (ii) costs associated with counterpart meetings;
(iii) printing, communications, postage and translation costs; (iv) internal travel costs for coordination
between PIU and PMOs; (v) office operating costs (electricity, miscellaneous office supplies); and (vi)
costs of special hired assistants.

All four components were clearly linked to the objectives described above.

    l The policy component which undertook to make financial projections and simulations based on
         expected contributions and benefits in Heilongjiang and Qingdao aimed to provide central policy
         makers with a sense of necessary policy modifications to achieve long-term sustainability.

    l By implementing and strengthening record-keeping and automating the administration process, the
         information development component aimed to contribute to the objective of strengthening
         institutional oversight at the provincial and municipal level.

    l The training component was necessary for staff at the central, provincial and municipal level to: (i)
         broaden and deepen their knowledge of international and domestic pension development issues, and
         thus be able to make more accurate assessment of domestic policy development needs; and (ii)
         learn to use the financial projection and modeling tools to support policy development decisions.
         Staff training is also necessary to help them efficiently use the technology acquired with this
         project.

    l Efficient project administration was obviously necessary for achieving all the targeted objectives.




                                                       - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no major restructuring of the project during implementation.

During implementation, a portion of the credit that was allocated to Heilongjiang was reallocated to the
MOLSS for technical assistance in developing a short to medium term actuarial forecasting model, the
Projection System of China Pension Funds (PSCPF). These reallocated funds resulted from savings from
hardware procurement and software development in Heilongjiang. Support to the PSCPF was seen as
consistent with the project's objectives as the PSCPF would complement the long term financial projection
analysis that the government has been undertaking using the Bank's Pension Reform Options Simulation
Toolkit (PROST) model.

The project originally envisaged technical assistance and studies to focus on the development of voluntary
supplementary schemes in Heilongjiang and Qingdao. During project implementation, the central
government issued regulations for a national supplementary plan, "Enterprise Annuities" to be developed.
Project support for such a voluntary scheme at the provincial or municipal level was therefore abandoned
so as not to duplicate efforts.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on:

    l the consistency of the project objectives with the government policy objective and with the Bank's
        CAS of strengthening social protection. With the rapid growth in China's old-age population
        which will continue over the next 15-20 years, the government recognizes that it is in the interest of
        the country's overall stability to speedily reform its current pension system to manage government
        pension liabilities while providing social security for its elderly;

    l the project design which included project support at the central, provincial and municipal levels of
        government. The project's design focusing on pilot locales took into consideration how policy is
        usually developed in the PRC; and

    l The government's explicit support of the project both at a central level and at the level of the
        participating province and municipality, as indicated by its explicit role in project design and
        provision of administrative support at each level to coordinate efficient execution of project tasks.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project achieved most of its major relevant objectives and has achieved or is expected to
achieve satisfactory development results. During project implementation, study tours and a training
program were held to train staff at the central, provincial and municipal levels of government on
sustainable pension development issues. Overseas and domestic study tours provided the opportunity for
relevant staff to learn about international and regional pension systems and their administration practices
which can be applied to PRC system developments. Pension administration system hardware was procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement procedures. Installation of the systems was
carried out smoothly and administrators were given necessary training to efficiently use the systems. These
training sessions, overseas and domestic study tours and the successful procurement and installation of the
administrative information systems all contributed to the project objective of sustainable pension policy



                                                      - 5 -

development.

The project also supported training for relevant staff to use forecast tools to estimate the long term
sustainability of the Qingdao municipal pension system and the Heilongjiang provincial pension system.
Based on this training process, the project was able to provide input to national policy makers on pension
policy parameters. Since the quality of the forecasts using actuarial models is directly linked to data
quality used for inputs, training programs were also held on data collection.

Although training seminars for data collection were held, the quality of pension related data used for long
term forecasting is still questionable which impacts the integrity of the forecasts. Data collection in China
is a bottom-up process that involves participation at the county and municipal level. The difficulty in
implementing a systematic method of data collection with set criteria is that conditions can differ vastly
from one city or county to the next even when they are within the same province. Unsystematic data
collection hinders policy-makers' faith in the forecast outcomes and therefore their reliance on the forecast
as a policy input. Achieving systematic data quality is a major challenge of its own, and addressing this
issue falls outside the realm of this project.

The outcomes achieved during this project are expected to have a lasting impact on the development of the
municipal and provincial and to some degree national pension systems. This is evident in the policies
issued in Qingdao, Heilongjiang and by the MOLSS in the years since the project was launched. Since this
project is closely inline with the government's pension development objectives, it is at times difficult to
differentiate whether the final achievements stem from the project or the government, vice versa or both.
But this project undoubtedly contributed to the positive direction of many of these policy initiatives. The
development human resource capacity in terms of staff who have improved their skills through training
supported by the project, while difficult to measure, will also have a lasting impact on future developments.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Policy development (US$0.7 million). This component is rated satisfactory. This purpose
of this component was to forecast the financial viability and sustainability of the municipal and provincial
pilots' pension systems and provide input based on these forecasts to central policy-makers on key pension
parameters for policies applied to China more broadly.

Training for the Bank's PROST forecasting model was carried out at the central government level and in
Heilongjiang and Qingdao. In addition and in parallel to project activities, the initial momentum gained
through such initial training resulted in the training of officials in PROST from additional provinces and
municipalities. There were various issues that hindered the accuracy and thus further reliance of PROST
by those who received training to use it in Qingdao and Heilongjiang, including: (i) PROST is a long-term
forecasting model (in excess of 50 years) requiring accurate data inputs, yet the data quality was
questionable and required substantial efforts at improvement; and (ii) PROST is a highly sophisticated
model requiring users with multi-disciplinary knowledge in order to properly navigate and use the model
properly.

Project funds did support a short to medium term forecasting model developed by the MOLSS's PSCPF.
Initially developed by MOLSS' own resources, project funds were allocated to support modifications to
PSCPF to incorporate a wider set of pension parameters. With modifications, the model has the flexibility
to run forecasts based on a varied set of parameters, a useful function given the disparity in pension
systems across the country. The PSCPF will be decentralized for use in provinces and municipalities.




                                                       - 6 -

Parallel to the sustainability analysis using forecasting models, the project also supported research and
studies of developments in other provinces and municipalities, leading to the following developments in
Heilongjiang, Qingdao and the central government level and ultimately resulting in improved financial
prospect of the system.

MOLSS
   l A conference was held in Chengdu in 2000 to discuss the future of pension developments, resulting
         in a research document titled "10th Five-Year Plan for China's Pension Insurance Development
         and Targets for 2010". The document provided direction on a national level for how the country's
         pension system should develop in the next 5 - 10 years.

   l The project provided training on a national level on supplementary pension system reform, leading
         to the issuance of policy documents issued by the MOLSS: Document No. 20 "Trial Measures for
         Enterprise Annuity" and No. 23 "Trial Measures for Managing Enterprise Annuity Funds" which
         sets the framework for a regulated voluntary pension scheme, "Enterprise Annuity" [to be]
         subsequently launched nationally.

   l The project initiated a process to explore options for establishing an integrated national social
         insurance information management system linked to provincial and municipal systems using a
         common template.

   l Via training sessions, conference and study tours, the project contributed to the development of
         State Council Document No. 38 "Decisions on Improving the Basic Old-age Insurance System for
         Enterprise Employees", which seeks to implement on a national level the policy lessons of
         experiments that were deemed successful in the three pilot provinces of Liaoning, Jilin and
         Heilongjiang.

Heilongjiang
   l Coverage grew in Heilongjiang during project implementation as a result of increased participation
         by the self-employed, private enterprise employees and civil servants.

   l Differences in contribution rates between cities and between types of enterprises within
         Heilongjiang were narrowed and average rates reduced and individual account contributions were
         raised.

        o    For civil servants, the average contribution rate was reduced from 35.4% in 2000 to 26.12% in
             2003 while the average individual account contribution rate was increased from 1.17% in 2000
             to 4.57% in 2003.

        o    For enterprises, the average contribution rate was reduced from 25.11% in 1999 to 23.2% in
             2003 while the average individual account contribution rate was increased from 4.24% in 2000
             to 7.95% in 2003.

   l Rise in contribution compliance rate.


        o    Contribution collection process was improved (see Annex 8, Appendices A3 and B3).

        o    Allocation of manpower towards compliance monitoring was increased.




                                                       - 7 -

   l A separate study on developing designs for voluntary retirement savings accounts was not carried
       out because during the course of project implementation, the central government issued regulations
       for "Enterprise Annuities".

Appendix A1 contains further details of changes in coverage and contribution rates.

Qingdao
   l During project implementation, the participation rate of self-employed, private enterprise
       employees, civil servants and rural resident employees of foreign funded enterprises all increased.

   l Contribution compliance rates also increased, mostly due to the city's healthy economic growth.


   l Enterprise contribution rates decreased while individual contribution rates increased.


   l While absolute benefits increased over the period, average replacement rates declined.


Appendix B1 contains further details of changes in coverage and contribution rates.

Component 2: Information Systems Development (US$4.2 million). This component is rated satisfactory.
The purpose of this component was system design, hardware procurement, software development for
Heilongjiang, and site preparation for servers and other hardware, operating procedure development and
personnel training to use the new systems. The satisfactory implementation of this component has
automated information collection, management and dissemination as well as expenditure tracking in the
pilot municipality and province. By digitizing the information and providing access to via wide area
networks, the systems are now in place for more informed policymaking, including providing a clearer
understanding to policy-makers of the state of the current pension system and the parameters that need
change.

MOLSS
   l Compiled "Labour and Social Insurance Information Management System Training Handbook" in
       2000.
   l Compiled "Social Insurance Information System Management Index" in 2000.
   l Facilitated the preparation for ICB procurement across project pilots.


Heilongjiang
   l All hardware was procured via the Bank's competitive bidding procedures, resulting in substantial
       savings, transparency and fairness amongst vendors.

   l Original data at a municipal and at the provincial level were successfully keyed in to convert to an
       electronic form. Such data provided the input from which four types of databases were built: (i) a
       database backup to store raw data; (ii) a database to support daily operations; (iii) a database
       supporting customer service; and (iv) a database supporting policy decisionmaking. During the
       process of inputting non-electronic data, all data were screened for quality and consistency,
       ensuring a higher quality of data entered into the databases. Application software for the four
       databases was developed to process data for each respective purpose.




                                                     - 8 -

    l A wide area network was built to allow system integration and data aggregation. A centralized
        provincial level pension insurance database management system has been constructed. Networks
        were built for pension administration on the provincial level as well as at the municipal level in the
        city of Jiamusi.

    l A systems operating site, including space for mainframe and server storage, was renovated and put
        in use.

    l Training sessions were carried out for staff responsible for transferring historical data to the
        digitized platform, as well as financial management and network and software maintenance.

Qingdao
    l All hardware was procured via the Bank's open bidding procedures, resulting in substantial
        savings, transparency and fairness amongst vendors.

    l All data stored on the historical data storage system decentralized to municipal offices were
        transferred to the newly created data management systems at the district and city level.

    l Non-electronic, original data in cities [and at the provincial level] were successfully converted to
        digitized form, from which four types of databases were built: (i) a database backup to store raw
        data; (ii) a database to support daily operations; (iii) a database supporting customer service; and
        (iv) a database supporting policy decision making. During the process of inputting non-electronic
        data, all data were screened for quality and consistency, ensuring a higher quality of data entered
        into the databases. Application software for the four databases was developed to process data for
        each respective purpose.

    l Created an information management network system that linked district and sub-district offices to
        the Qingdao municipal labor and social security bureau. With the support of the project, the
        system is now centralized at the municipal level, and allows access by all levels of pension system
        participants. For example, the labor and social security bureau can access the system to determine
        which enterprises are lagging in contribution remittances, employment units can access the system
        to input changes in the status of individual employees, and individual pension system members can
        access the network to view personal pension contribution and benefit data.

    l Network systems were developed following a national standard protocol so that it can be integrated
        with the provincial and national level social insurance information system in the future.

    l Training sessions were carried out for relevant staff to understand and operate the new systems
        network and to maintain the newly developed software.

Component 3: Training (US$0.9 million). This component is rated satisfactory. The purpose of this
component was to support the identification by MOLSS and by the Heilongjiang and Qingdao labor and
social security bureaus of personnel skills requirements and, thereafter, development and implementation of
training programs to improve the skills of its personnel.




                                                     - 9 -

MOLSS
In addition to the training discussed under Policy Development Component, MOLSS:

   l carried out 10 training seminars focusing on old-age pensions, Enterprise Annuities and
        information system maintenance to support the development of human resources;

   l took the lead in organizing overseas training in the Information Technology (IT) area with a 20-day
        study tour to Australia and Malaysia to study social insurance IT system management techniques;
        and

   l took the lead in organizing overseas study tours for relevant MOLSS, Heilongjiang and Qingdao
        staff to Poland and the United Kingdom to study their respective experiences in pension policy
        planning.

Heilongjiang
Domestic and overseas training were organized for bureau directors, division chiefs and section heads to
better understand administrative and policy developments in other cities and provinces and overseas. Other
more focused workshops included:

   l A week-long basic pension policy training workshop was held in 2001 for bureau staff responsible
        for pension insurance work in various cities. Training aimed to better communicate to managers
        the elements of the national unified pension system and emphasized the measures to improve
        pooling at the municipal level and ensure the provision of basic pension benefits.

   l A week long training course was held in 2002 to train staff on core issues of the basic pension
        system. Training content focused on the following policy documents:

        o    "Circular of Heilongjiang Provincial Labor & Social Security Bureau on the Calculation of
             Basic Pension Benefits for Retirement of Employees of Special State Industries";

        o    "Regulations on the Basic Pension Insurance for Urban Enterprise Employees in
             Heilongjiang";

        o    "Regulations of the Basic Pension Insurance for Urban Self Employed Workers in
             Heilongjiang";and

        o    "Methods for Contributing to Social Insurance in Heilongjiang".

   l A two week workshop was held in 2004 to study the policies for adjusting and improving the basic
        pension system in Heilongjiang. Contents of the workshop focused on:

        o    The State Council Decision: "Approval of Heilongjiang as a Pilot Site for Implementing
             Improvements to the Urban Social Insurance System";

        o    "Methods for Calculation of Basic Pension Benefits for Enterprise Workers"; and

        o    Other relevant regulations on improving the basic pension insurance system for urban workers
             in Heilongjiang.




                                                   - 10 -

Qingdao
Domestic and overseas training sessions were organized for relevant staff to better understand
administrative and policy developments in other Chinese cities and provinces and overseas. Programs
included:

    l Two domestic study tours in 2002 to learn about experiences and measures in other cities to
        expand coverage and address enterprise contribution arrears.

    l Two conferences in 2002 to discuss domestic pension policy and draft policy documents.
        Attendees included academics and relevant persons involved in Qingdao's social insurance
        operation. The conferences focused on pension policy and regulations in Germany, the United
        Kingdom, the United States and Japan as reference points for the discussions.

    l A series of seminars were organized in 2002 for a total of 500 relevant staff to discuss and
        exchange ideas on how to enforce current pension policies. Participants included those involved in
        policy decisions, those in hands-on operational positions and staff from branch offices interfacing
        with the public.

    l A 10 day seminar in 2003 to train 100 relevant staff on pension regulations, pension operations
        and to exchange ideas on how to resolve certain operational issues.

Component 4: Project Administration (US$0.5million). This component is rated satisfactory. This
component aimed to provide assistance in project administration at the level of the MOLSS' PIU and PMOs
in Heilongjiang and Qingdao, respectively.

The PIU and PMOs all effectively carried out their organization and financial management responsibilities.
The most important reason contributing to the satisfactory rating of this component was the allocation of
sufficient and appropriate staffing to these units. The project was completed within the established budget,
with substantial savings realized from the procurement processes employed. The project completion date
was extended twice due to unforeseeable reasons including Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS)
which delayed domestic travel and visa restrictions set by international governments which delayed
overseas study tours. Project completion was also delayed by reallocation of savings from the allocation to
Heilongjiang to the MOLSS to make improvements to the MOLSS' actuarial model. The latter delay
contributed to realizing the overall project objectives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A Net present Value (NPV) or Economic rate of return (ERR) is not quantifiable for this project.
Components supported by the Bank credit include policy development, information system development,
training and project implementation. While all components were executed satisfactorily and will contribute
positively to the financial sustainability of the pension system, the potentially direct financial benefits are
not quantifiable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return (FRR) was not calculated for this project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is rated as highly satisfactory. The most lasting impact of
the project is the training provided to relevant staff involved in operations and policy-making for pension
insurance. Training sessions supported by the project deepened and broadened the understanding of



                                                       - 11 -

participants of issues facing China's pension system. These training sessions and domestic and overseas
study tours exposed participants to new ideas for pension reform that can be adopted to their own
jurisdictions.

The process of designing the information systems and ultimately the procurement of computer hardware
procurement and software development [yet software was not procured] to automate and network the
pension insurance information management systems in Qingdao and Heilongjiang will have a sustainable
impact. These measures have and will continue to improve the quality of data recorded into the system, cut
down data processing time, and provide a more complete and accurate picture to administrators and
policy-makers of participation and compliance rates as well as the systems' financial status. These
information systems were established in line with the broad specifications provided by the MOLSS with the
plan that they will eventually be linked to the national system, thus serving as a tool for central policy
decisions.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
International and local hardware vendors have a strong interest in gaining market share in China and were
therefore very aggressive in their bidding to supply project financed systems hardware. This, along with
using the Bank's procurement process led to substantial cost savings. The enthusiastic attitude of staff
involved in this project, especially in Heilongjiang and Qingdao contributed to the implementation and
favorable outcome. The managers at the PIU and PMOs were mindful of the project requirements as
specified by the project objectives and implemented tasks accordingly.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
N/A

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    N/A.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was completed within the original budget of US$6.2mn. Where there were savings as in
Heilongjiang and MOLSS components, Bank approval was sought and received to re-allocate the funds
towards technical assistance to the MOLSS to develop an actuarial model.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project's achievements is highly likely given that the thrust of these achievements is
consistent with the government's pension reform directions. The integration of the project design with the
government's own development objectives is essential to achieving such sustainability of results.

Since the project launch in 1999, the government has consistently pursued reforms towards a sustainable
pension system in parallel with the activities of this project. The establishment of the National Social
Security Fund in 2000 as a future source of funding for local governments with difficulty paying legacy
pension benefits and the pilot reforms from 2001 to 2005 in the northeastern provinces of Liaoning, Jilin
and Heilongjiang are clear examples of the government's commitment to further building a sustainable
pension system. Regulations for a voluntary supplementary pension, Enterprise Annuities,which were
announced in 2004 is another action reinforcing the government's intention to make policy decisions



                                                     - 12 -

supportive of a sustainable and diversified pension system. State Council Document No. 38 which calls for
extending the successful parametric changes realized in the northeastern pilot provinces to the rest of China
during 2006 is the government's latest initiative towards pension reform.

Information systems development supported by the project is consistent with the national plan to upgrade
pension insurance information management to be included as part of the Jinbao national systems
development project. The Jinbao project was approved by the State Council in 2003 and, upon completion
in five years, is intended to support program management, service delivery, fund supervision and
management, as well as policy analysis and evaluation of social insurance programs at the central,
provincial and municipal levels of government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For the same reasons cited under the Sustainability section above, it is highly likely that the government
will continue to provide the appropriate technical, financial, and institutional resources necessary to ensure
the continuity of the policy development and implementation and information system supported by this
project.

The recently issued State Council Document No. 38 discussed above is just one example of the
government's continued commitment to pension policy reform.

The hardware and software procured with project funds to build information systems in Heilongjiang and
Qingdao are in accordance with the central government plans to build a system that will eventually be
networked at the national level. While the project provided support, the government has been making its
own investments in this area and is expected to continue to do so to maintain and upgrade the systems as
necessary.

With respect to the continued development of the short to medium term actuarial forecast model, PSCPF,
while the model is capable of accepting and processing parameters defined in regulations issued up to 2004,
it will need further programming changes in order to accept input parameters as defined by later
regulations. The developers of this model have indicated that further financial support would be necessary
for these programming changes to occur.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.

As discussed in the previous sections, the objectives of this project are consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy as well as with the government's pension system development strategy. The appraisal
document was thorough in providing the background and rational for the objectives of this project, and
provided clear performance indicators as a guideline for project implementation. Most importantly, the
project was prepared jointly with the participation and expressed interest of the MOLSS, Heilongjiang
provincial and Qingdao municipal representatives resulting in substantial ownership and commitment to
project implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervising this project was satisfactory. Since the execution period for this
project spanned over 5 years, the project leader was changed twice although there was consistency in the
makeup of the project team from identification through implementation. However this did not seem to have



                                                    - 13 -

any negative impact on the supervision and monitoring of the project. Supervision missions were in
accordance with the Bank's requirements and reports following the missions gave useful assessments of
project status as well as useful feedback and suggestions for resolving issues and `next-steps'.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance on this project is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    The PRC government's performance at preparation of the project was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The PRC government's implementation performance was satisfactory. As discussed previously, the
objectives of this project are consistent with that of the government's and it is therefore in the interest of the
government to be supportive by providing appropriate staff and counterpart funds.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance was satisfactory. The staff members assigned to this project at
the central level, in Heilongjiang and Qingdao were all capable and enthusiastic in participating in this
project and implemented their respective tasks earnestly. They were mindful in following guidelines such
as those set by the Bank for the procurement process through competitive bidding and took pride in the
results of the project as well as what they learned in the process.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance on this project is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The most significant lessons learned from this project are:

   l The importance of aligning project objectives with that of the Borrower's. With the objectives of
        both sides aligned, the project received strong administrative support from the government
        representatives in the MOLSS, Heilongjiang and Qingdao, in the PIU and the PMOs. There was a
        clear and shared sense of purpose in moving the project forward.

   l The practicality of focusing the project on one province and one municipality as pilots with
        oversight from the central government. Given the differences between provinces and municipalities
        and the varying issues they face in the pension development, piloting the project components in
        Heilongjiang and Qingdao kept the administration manageable.

   l In terms of project management, a lesson learned from this project is that there should be better
        clarity as to the responsibilities and repayment obligations at the onset of project launch. Project
        implementation was delayed in Jiamusi municipality due to unclear agreement regarding
        responsibility for repayment of the subloan between the central government and the municipality
        which is the common practice for projects of this sort in China. The Heilongjiang PMO reported
        that a large amount of Bank funds were kept in the Finance Bureau of Jiamusi for over half a year
        because of a lack of agreement between the municipal Finance Bureau and the Labor and Social
        Security Bureau regarding the repayment obligations. As a result, the suppliers could not get
        payment after considerable delivery. This delay could perhaps be avoided in the future by having
        better clarity prior to project launch.



                                                      - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
MOLSS as the borrowing agency concurred with this ICR and agreed that the project provided valuable
lessons in many aspects which were subsequently applied in other activities.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Output/Impact Indicators:


            Indicator                             Projected in SAR/PAD      Actual/Latest Estimate



 Project the financial viability and              Same as indicator.  Directly or indirectly provided
 sustainability of the Qingdao municipal                              input to the following national
 pension system and the Heilongjiang                                  policies:
 provincial pension system and from such
 projections, test the implementation of key                            l State Council Document 35
 policy parameters embodied in State Council                               and 36 on the Decision to
 Document 26. Following this projection,                                   Pilot Social Insurance System
 provide input to national policy-makers on key                            Improvements in Jilin and
 parameters of policy and implementation.                                  Heilongjiang, respectively.

                                                                        l MOLSS Document 20 on
                                                                           Trial Measures for Enterprise
                                                                           Annuity.

                                                                        l MOLSS Document 23 on
                                                                           Measures on Management of
                                                                           Enterprise Annuity Funds for
                                                                           Trial Implementation.

                                                                        l State Council Document 38
                                                                           on Improving the Basic Social
                                                                           Insurance System for
                                                                           Enterprise Workers.
Install, test and review wider applicability of a Same as indicator   Improved operational efficiencies.
new model of pension data collection,                                 Examples of some of the
processing and management.                                            improvements are listed in Note 1
                                                                      and Note 2 below.




                                                   - 16 -

        Indicator        Projected in          Actual/Latest Estimate
                         SAR/PAD

Develop and carry out  Same as indicator   Training for Heilongjiang,
training programs for                      Qingdao and MOLSS staff on
MOLSS, provincial and                      pension system development and
municipal staff.                           information management related
                                           issues including:

                                            l Knowledge of regulations
                                               regarding municipal and
                                               provincial pension systems.

                                            l Timely implementation
                                               methods.

                                            l Experience of other cities,
                                               provinces and countries in
                                               drafting pension regulations.

                                            l Statistical methods.


                                            l Design and administration of
                                               IT systems, database
                                               management and application
                                               of new software.

                                            l Improve service efficiency of
                                               county and district level staff
                                               in dealing with pension
                                               participants.

                                             l Using the Bank's PROST.




                                        - 17 -

Note 1: Heilongjiang

  No.                 Key indicator                                           Efficiency
                                                           Before             After         Changing rate (%)
   1   Transacting insurance participation                     25                100                 400
       affairs by one clerk 1


       (person-time /hour/person)
       Collecting contribution (person/hour)                8,000             17,000                 212
   2   Benefits inspection (person-time /hour)
                            2                                  30                 60                 200
   3   Inspection (case/hour)
                  3                                         1,200             38,000               3,167
       Benefits distribution (person/hour)                10,000              30,000                 300
   4   Accounting (hours taken to transact a full               7                 0.5                  -7
       account affair)
   5   Periodic statistic report (working days
                                4                              56                   5                -8.5
       taken per month (hour*person))
   6   Decision support analysis (working days                 52                 16                  -30
       taken per month [hour*person])
   7   Working hours taken for every one                      300                 30                  -10
       hundred new participants (person*hour)

1Participating procedure refers to accepting the application of the new entrants to the social insurance,
establishing the social insurance documents for them, registering and issuing individual account manuals.
It also refers to annulling the social insurance for those who terminate their social insurance, transforming
or continuing the social insurance for those who exit or enter the pooling area.

2Benefit auditing includes auditing and inspecting basic pension benefit which consist of checking and
ratifying applicants' retired benefit, benefit adjustment, one time paid benefit, benefit for direct dependants
and etc. Only by calculating these checking and ratifying the pension benefit amount of the applicant, the
checking and ratifying opinion and the benefit amount can be noted down.

3Benefit inspection includes auditing and inspecting whether the cardinal number and contribution rate of
the social basic pension is complied with the concerning laws and regulations, whether the declared amount
is consistent with his or her situation and whether the document of declaration is all ready.

4Periodic statistic report refers to fixed report forms filled out regularly (monthly, seasonally or annually) to
the supervisor or authorities.




                                                      - 18 -

Note 2: Qingdao

    No.                    Key indicator                                                       Efficiency
                                                             Before          After         Changing rate (%)
    1      Transacting pension participation                      30           120                400
           procedure (increase, decrease, transfer
           leave, terminate and set up file, etc)
           (person/time/hour/person)
           Collecting contribution (person/hour)             10,000         20,000                200
    2      Benefits auditing (person/hour)                        30            60                200
    3      Inspection (case/hour)                              1,000        40,000              4,000
           Benefits distribution (person/hour)               12,000          3,000                250
    4      Fund accounting (hours taken to transact                8           0.5                  -6
           a full account affair)
    5      Periodic statistic report (working days
                                     5                            72             8                 -11
           taken per month [hour*person])
           Decision support analysis (working days                48            12                 -25
           taken per month [hour*person])
    7      Working hours taken for every one                      20             2                 -10
           hundred new participants (person*hour)

5Periodic statistic report refers to fixed report forms filled out regularly (monthly, seasonally or annually) to
the supervisor or authorities.




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (Appraisal Estimate)

  Component         Category       Cost Incl.      % of Total Bank-financing      % of
                                  Contingencies                 (US$M)       Bank-financing
                                    (US$M)
Policy          Institutional             0.7            11.1         0.7            14.0
Development     Development
Information     Institutional             4.2            66.7         3.5            70.0
Systems         Development
Training        Institutional             0.9            14.3         0.8            16.0
                Development
Project         Institutional             0.5            7.90
Administration Development
Total                                     6.3           100.0         5.0           100.0

Project Costs by Component (Actual/Latest Estimate)

       Component          Bank-financing(US$M)       Government           Total (US$M)
Policy Development               0.47                    0.02                0.49
Information Systems              3.14                    0.60                3.74
Training                         0.75                    0.03                0.78
Project Administration           0.10                    0.19                0.29
Total                            4.46                    0.84                5.30




                                             - 20 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements

  Component                        Procurement Method                        Total
                      ICB          NCB              Other         N.B.F.
Goods                     2.60          0.45            0.35          0.60        4.00
Consulting                                              0.90                      0.90
Services
Training                                                0.80          0.10        0.90
Operating Cost                                                        0.50        0.50
Total                     2.60          0.45            2.05          1.20        6.30

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/latest Estimate)

  Component                        Procurement Method                        Total
                      ICB          NCB              Other         N.B.F.
Goods                     1.95          0.36            0.83          0.60        3.74
Consulting                                              0.47          0.02        0.49
Services
Training                                                0.75          0.03        0.78
Operating Cost                                          0.10          0.19        0.29
Total                     1.95          0.36            2.15          0.84        5.30




                                           - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/7/1998                 2    TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL
                                             PROTECTION SPEC (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              3/1/1999                  7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                             SPEC (3); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); FM SPECIALIST (2)


 Supervision

              07/16/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1); PROST           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             PROTECTION SPEC (1)
              03/30/2000                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PENSIONS MODELING SPEC
                                             (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                             SPEC (1); SOCIAL PROT IT
                                             SPEC (1); TASK ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              03/21/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             SECTOR COORDINATOR (1)
              03/30/2002                5    ECONOMIST-TASK                   S               S
                                             MANAGER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN MGMT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TASK
                                             ASST/TRANSLATOR (1)
              04/23/2004                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FM SPECIALIST (1)
              09/27/2004                2    TTL (1); PROGRAM                 S               S
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              1/19/2005                 3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FM SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
              9/26/2005                 2     TTL (1); PROGRAM                S               S
                                              ASSISTANT (1)




                                              - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                        177,755
  Supervision                            NA                        521,894
  ICR                                    NA
  Total                                                            699,640




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        No other social related
objectives are applicable here.
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
No other objectives are applicable.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, and Provincial Reports.
10th Five-Year Plan for China's Pension Insurance Development and Targets for 2010.
Document No. 26: State Council Decision on Establishment of Unified Basic Old-age Insurance System for
Enterprise Employees
Document No. 20: Trial Measures for Enterprise Annuity.
Document No. 23: Trial Measures for Managing Enterprise Annuity Funds.
Document No. 36: State Council Decision on Refining the Basic Old-age Insurance System in Heilongjiang
Document No. 38: State Council Decision on Improving the Basic Old-age Insurance System for
Enterprise Employees.
Labour and Social Insurance Information Management System Training Handbook.
Circular of Heilongjiang Provincial Labor & Social Security Bureau on the Calculation of Basic Pension
Benefits for Retirement of Employees of Special State Industries.
Regulations on the Basic Pension Insurance for Urban Enterprise Employees in Heilongjiang.
Regulations of the Basic Pension Insurance for Urban Self Employed Workers in Heilongjiang.
Methods for Contributing to Social Insurance in Heilongjiang.
Approval of Heilongjiang as a Pilot Site for Implementing Improvements to the Urban Social Insurance
System.
Methods for Calculation of Basic Pension Benefits for Enterprise Workers.




                                                  - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Appendices: Coverage and Contribution Data for Heilongjiang and
Qingdao

a. Coverage and contribution data for Heilongjiang.


                                          Appendix A1: Basic Pension Coverage in Heilongjiang Province, 1999-2003
         Active workers who are participants                                                     Active workers who should be participants
                                  (1,000 persons)                                                                          (1,000 persons)                                                                        Coverage (%)

                                              Enterprises,                                                                               Enterprises,                                                                         Enterprises,
                                             individuals and                                                                           individuals and                                                                      individuals and
  Year                         Government                   others                                                      Government                              others                                        Government                             others
                     Total-    organizations                                                                           organizations                                                                          organizations
                                and public                                                                   Total-      and public                                                                   Total    and public
                           Sub  institutions                                                                       Sub   institutions                                                                          institutions

                                                 Enterprises              Individuals                                                                Enterprises                 Individuals                                              Enterprises       Individuals

  1999  4,662                      48.0      4,564                      50
  2000  4,664                      66.0      4,511                      87
  2001  5,140                     532.0      4,469                      139                      5,211                       536       4,513                          162                           986           99.3       99.0                         85.8
  2002  5,024                     478.0      4,278                      268                      5,121                       531       4,310                          280                           981           90.0       99.3                         95.7
  2003  5,183                     503.0      4,277                      403                      5,278                       559       4,305                          414                           982           90.0       99.3                         97.3
Note: Profit making public institutions included under enterprises.




                     Appendix A2: Number of Basic Pension Participants in Heilongjiang Province, 1999-2003
        Total pension participants (active                                                                            Active workers who are                                                        Retired pension participants
       workers + retirees)(1,000 persons)                                                           participants (1,000 persons)                                                                               (1,000 persons)
                                              Enterprises,                                                                             Enterprises,                                                                         Enterprises,
                                               individuals                                                                             individuals                                                                         individuals and
Year                           Government      and others                                                              Government       and others                                                         Government                     others
            Total-             organizations                                                                           organizations                                                                       organizations
                                and public                                                          Total-              and public                                                                                                                                     ls
                                                                                                                                                                                               Total        and public
                  Sub          institutions                                                               Sub           institutions                                                                       institutions

                                                            Enterprises              Individuals                                          Enterprises                 Individuals                                              Enterprises                               Individua

1999   617.1                         64       6,057                     50                       4,662                       48        4,564                       50                       1,509              16          1,493

2000   624.9                         83       6,079                     87                       4,664                       66        4,511                       87                       1,585              17          1,568

2001   692.4                        639       6,145 140 5,140                                                               532        4,469 139 1,784                                                         107         1,676                           1

2002   689.8                        594       6,030 274 5,024                                                               478        4,278 268 1,874                                                         116         1,752                           6

2003   714.2                        631       6,097 414 5,183                                                               503        4,277 403 1,959                                                         128         1,820                          11

Note: Profit making public institutions included under enterprises.




                                                                                                                            - 28 -

                           AppendixA3: AverageContributionRateto BasicPensioninHeilongjiangProvince,1999-2003
                            Employeraveragecontribution Individualaveragecontribution
                                       rate(%)                                                               rate(%)                                     Pensioncollectionrate(%)
                                            Enterprises,                                                          Enterprises,                                                                  Enterprises,
                                          individualsand                                                         individualsand                                                                individualsand

                       YearGovernment                   others                      Government                       others                                         Government                               others
                           organizations                                           organizations                                                        organizationsand
                            andpublic                                                          andpublic                                          Total               public
                            institutions                                            institutions                                                                    institutions

                                             Enterprises               Individuals                                   Enterprises    Individuals                                                   Enterprises        Individuals

              1999                -        25.1                        0                          -                4.2             16           86.5                   92.0                    86.2                -

              2000             35.4        25.5                        0                         1.2               5.4             16           87.6                   95.8                    87.5                -

              2001             30.7        24.1                        0                         5.7               6.2             20           91.3                   95.0                    90.9                -

              2002             23.8        22.9                        0                         7.1               6.9             20           95.5                   95.6                    94.9                -

              2003             26.1        23.2                        0                         4.6               7.9             20           93.5                   95.8                    93.1                -

             Note: Profitmakingpublicinstitutionsincludedunderenterprises.




                           Appendix A4: Pension Benefit Level of Retired Persons in Heilongjiang Province, 1999-2003

          Number of retired persons (1,000 persons)                                                             Average benefits (RMB)                                                         Substitution rate of pension (%)
                                                        Enterprises,                                                                                   Enterprises,                                                                  Enterprises,
                                            individuals and                                                                                      individuals and                                                                    individuals and
                           Government                      others                                                Government                              others                                              Government                 others
 Year
              Total-       organizations                                                                         organizations                                                                               organizations
                            and public                                                              Total-        and public                                                              Total                and public
                    Sub    institutions                                                                   Sub     institutions                                                                                 institutions
                                                                                                                                                         erprises
                                                           Enterprises              Individuals                                                                  Ent        Individuals                                                 Enterprises    Individuals

 1999     1,509                  16                     1,493                      -              445                            -                     443                -             84.7                         -               86.2             -

 2000     1,585                  17                     1,568                      -              487                            -                     489                -             89.1                         -               89.3             -

 2001     1,784                107                      1,676                      1              511                           666                    500                -             88.1                      82.8               89.3             -

 2002     1,874                116                      1,752                      6              550                           805                    523                -             85.5                      83.3               90.8             -

 2003     1,959                128                      1,820                      11             564                           847                    545                -             83.2                      83.2               83.2             -

Note: Profit making public institutions included under enterprises.




                                                                                                              - 29 -

                                           Appendix B1: Basic Pension Coverage in Qingdao Municipality, 1999-2003
                     Active workers who are participants                                                                  Active workers who should be
                                     (1,000 persons)                                                                      participants (1,000 persons)                                                                 Coverage (%)

                                                             Enterprises,                                                                    Enterprises,                                                                                     Enterprises,
 Year                                            individuals and                                                                           individuals and                                                                       individuals and
                                 Government                             others                                              Government                               others                                     Government                               others
                     Total-      organizations                                                                             organizations                                                                        organizations
                                  and public                                                                     Total-       and public                                                                 Total    and public
                           Sub    institutions                                                                         Sub   institutions                                                                        institutions

                                                             Enterprises                 Individuals                                                      Enterprises                 Individuals                                             Enterprises                 Individuals

1999      803                         80         715                          8                        830                       80         740                            10                      96.7              100         96.6                         80.0
2000      904                        110         779                         15                        910                       110        780                            20                      99.4              100         99.9                         75.0
2001      916                        120         773                         23                        970                       120        821                            29                      94.4              100         94.2                         79.3
2002      959                        120         784                         55                        990                       120        810                            60                      96.9              100         96.8                         91.7
2003     1,065                       160         821                         85                      1,150                       160        902                            88                      92.6              100         91.0                         96.6
Note: Profit making public institutions included under enterprises.



                                 Appendix B2: Number of Basic Pension Participants in Qingdao Municipality, 1999-2003
       Total participants (active workers + retirees)                                                 Active workers who are participants                                                                     Retired pension participants
                                   (1,000 persons)                                                                             (1,000 persons)                                                                      (1,000 persons)
                                                 Enterprises,                                                                              Enterprises,                                                                         Enterprises,
                                               individuals and                                                                            individuals and                                                                      individuals and
Year                           Government                    others                                                       Government                     others                                               Government                      others
            total-             organizations                                                                              organizations                                                                       organizations
                                and public                                                              total-             and public                                      ls
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total      and public
                  Sub          institutions                                                                   Sub          institutions                                                                       institutions

                                                  Enterprises                 Individuals                                                     Enterprises                    Individua                                             Enterprises                 Individuals

1999 1,071                         90          973                           8                       803                        80         715                           8                        268              10           258                          0

2000 1,202                         130        1,057                         15                       904                       110         779                          15                        298              20           278                          0

2001 1,242                         140        1,079                         23                       916                       120         773                          23                        326              20           306                          0

2002 1,302                         140        1,107                         55                       959                       120         784                          55                        343              20           323                          0

2003 1,446                         200        1,161                         85                       1,065                     160         821                          85                        380              40           340                          0

Note: Profit making public institutions included under enterprises.




                                                                                                                              - 30 -

                           AppendixB3: Average Contribution Rate of Basic PensioninQingdao Municipality,1999-2003
      Employer average contribution rate                                             Individualaveragecontributionrate                                                                      Pension collection rate (%)
                                    (%)                                                                                  (%)
                                           Enterprises,                                                                         Enterprises,                                                                    Enterprises,

                           Government     individualsand                                                                      individualsand                                                                  individuals and
Year                       organizations                 others                                           Government                        others                                           Government                     others
         total-                and                                                              total-    organizations                                                                     organizations
                                                                                                           and public                                                      Total             andpublic                             uals
               Sub         publicinstituti                                                            Sub
                               ons                                                                        institutions                                                                       institutions

                                              Enterprises               Individuals                                              Enterprises      Individuals                                                    Enterprises           Individ

1999 23.4                       22         23.6                        0            7.6                               2        7                18                       96.6                    98           96.0               100
2000 23.5                       23         23.6                        0            8.4                               2        8                18                       96.6                    97           96.2               100
2001 23.6                       24         23.6                        0            8.4                               2        8                18                       96.8                    98           96.2               100
2002 23.8                       24         23.8                        0            8.6                               2        8                20                       97.2                    99           96.6               100
2003 22.7                       27         22.2                        0            8.6                               2        8                20                       97.1                    99           96.5               100
Note: Profit makingpublic institutions included under enterprises.




                            Appendix B4: Pension Benefit Levels of Qingdao Municipality Retirees, 1999-2003
                           Number of retired persons                                                                  Personal average benefit                                                   Substitute rate of pension (%)
                              (1,000 persons)                                                                             (RMB Yuan)
                                                         Enterprises,                                                                            Enterprises,                                                                    Enterprises,
                                                         individuals                                                                              individuals                                                                     individuals
Year                        Government                   and others                                                    Government                 and others                                            Government                and others
                  total-   organizations                                                                               organizations                                                                   organizations
                             and public                                                                      total-     and public                                                                Total and public
                        Sub institutions                                                                           Sub  institutions                                                                    institutions

                                                            Enterprises              Individuals                                                             Enterprises         Individuals                                                  Enterprises   Individuals

1999 268                          10                     258                        0                    574.4             1360                   544                           0             91.9          105                   90.4                     -
2000 298                          20                     278                        0                    638.2             1420                   582                           0             90.4          106                   88.7                     -
2001 326                          20                     306                        0                    644.6             1480                   590                           0             85.4          105                   83.2                     -
2002 343                          20                     323                        0                    693.8             1530                   642                           0             84.6          106                   82.2                     -
2003 380                          40                     340                        0                    773.8             1640                   672                           0             83.3          106                   80.8                     -
Note: Among enterprises, include public institutions that are under the management of enterprises.




                                                                                                                              - 31 -

- 32 -

