Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3241 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Pension Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 15, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3241 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 000, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth 
Page  2
below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are 
accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 
10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”.
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified 
to read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to 
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in 
this Agreement:
(a)
“Borrower’s Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement.
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
“Heilongjiang” means the Borrower’s Province of Heilongjiang, and 
any successor thereto.
(d)
“Heilongjiang Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
(e)
“MOLSS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social Security, 
and any successor thereto.
(f)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit to be established and 
maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Part A of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(g)
“PMO” means the Project Management Office to be established and 
maintained by each Project Entity in accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(h)
“Project Entities” means, collectively, Heilongjiang and Qingdao; 
and Project Entity means, individually, either of the Project Entities.
(i)
“Project Implementation Arrangement” means, in respect of each 
Page  3
Project Entity, the arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and said 
Project Entity in accordance with the provisions of Part C of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, as said arrangement may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements or arrangements supplemental to the 
Project Implementation Arrangement; and “Project Implementation Arrangements” 
means, collectively, all of said arrangements.
(j)
“Qingdao” means the Municipality of Qingdao of the Borrower’s 
Province of Shandong, and any successor thereto.
(k)
“Qingdao Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
(l)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, (i) in respect of the 
Borrower, the activities included in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to be carried 
out by the Borrower, and (ii) in respect of each Project Entity, the activities 
included in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to be carried out by said Project 
Entity.
(m)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars the following three special deposit accounts, each in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association:  (i) one such account for the purposes of the 
Borrower’s Respective Part of the Project (the Borrower’s Special Account); (ii) 
one such account for the purposes of Heilongjiang’s Respective Part of the 
Project (Heilongjiang’s Special Account); and (iii) one such account for the 
purposes of Qingdao’s Respective Part of the Project (Qingdao’s Special 
Account).  Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2009 
and ending May 1, 2034.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 1, 2019 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1 1/4%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2 1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
this Development Credit Agreement, shall carry out its Respective Part of the 
Project through MOLSS, and cause the Project Entities to carry out their 
Respective Parts of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, and financial practices, 
Page  5
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project, 
and shall cause the Project Entities to carry out their Respective Parts of the 
Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan, consolidating the plans prepared by the Project 
Entities and furnished to the Borrower pursuant to each Project Entity’s 
respective Project Implementation Arrangement and Part C.8 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section 
including those for the Special Accounts 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of 
each such year, the report of such audit 
by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Page  6
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any party to any of the Project Implementation Arrangements shall 
have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that any party to any of the Project Implementation 
Arrangements will be able to perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that a Project 
Implementation Arrangement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and each 
Project Entity.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the 
Project Implementation Arrangement between the Borrower and each Project Entity 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and said Project Entity and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower and said Project Entity in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Page  7
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing  100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486
Beijing
MFPRC CN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year 
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
for the Borrower's
Page  8
Respective Part of
the Project
(a)
Goods
      210,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and
75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(b)
Consultants'
160,000
100%
services and
training
(2)
for Heilongjiang's
Respective Part of
the Project:
(a)
Goods
    1,330,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and
75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(b)
Consultants'
      520,000
100%
services and
training
(3)
for Qingdao's
Respective Part of
the Project
(a)
Goods
    1,040,000
100 of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and
75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(b)
Consultants'
     440,000
100%
services and
training
TOTAL
   3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said 
region shall be deemed “foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
Page  9
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 370,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1998. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) training, regardless 
of the cost thereof; (c) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) consultants’ services under 
contracts awarded to individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; in 
each case under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to reform its 
pension system through (i) the formulation of a sustainable funding strategy and 
(ii) the improvement of pension systems in a pilot province and a pilot city, in 
order to obtain experience and develop a template for the establishment of a 
national unified pension system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Policy Development
(1)
Carrying out by Heilongjiang of a study of the sustainability of its 
existing urban enterprise employee pension systems, and by Qingdao of a study of 
the sustainability of its enterprise employee pension systems, said studies to 
include:  (a) the development of long-term financial projections of the 
cashflows of said systems; and (b) sensitivity analysis of said systems.
(2)
Carrying out by each Project Entity of a study, using modeling techniques, 
to design funded pension systems for government agencies within its jurisdiction 
whose employees are not covered by the civil service regime.
(3)
Carrying out by each Project Entity of a study to develop policies and 
procedures to enhance the participation in its pension systems by 
non-state-owned enterprises operating within its jurisdiction.
(4)
Carrying out by Heilongjiang of a study of the coherence of various 
pension systems with its readjustment funds.
(5)
Carrying out by Heilongjiang of a study to assess the implementation of 
policies and procedures for the unification of contribution rates among the 
sector-based pension systems.
(6)
Carrying out by Heilongjiang of a study to design voluntary supplementary 
retirement savings accounts.
(7)
On the basis of recommendations from the studies carried out by the 
Project Entities under Part A.2 of the Project, carrying out by the Borrower of 
a study, using modeling techniques, to design funded pension systems for 
national government agencies whose employees are not covered by the civil 
service regime.
(8)
Assessment by the Borrower, on the basis of recommendations from the 
studies carried out by the Project Entities under Part A.3 of the Project, of 
the suitability of adopting policies and procedures to enhance the participation 
Page  10
in its pension systems by non-state-owned enterprises on a nationwide basis.
(9)
Development by the Borrower, on the basis of recommendations from the 
study carried out by Heilongjiang under Part A.4 of the Project, of national 
guidelines for pooling of funds at the provincial level.
(10)
Carrying out by the Borrower of a study to design voluntary supplementary 
retirement savings accounts.
(11)
Formulation by the Borrower of a policy paper for pension reform, 
including sequencing of measures for state-owned, collective-owned, private, 
foreign and joint venture enterprises, the self-employed, public institutions 
and civil service, respectively.
Part B:
Institutional Development
(1)
Strengthening by each Project Entity and the Borrower of systems for the 
administration of its urban retirement pensions, through:  (a) carrying out of a 
user needs assessment for the development of management information systems; (b) 
provision of equipment and software for pension administration and oversight; 
and (c) strengthening and implementation of procedures for pension management 
and oversight in the Project Entities.
(2)
Identification by the Borrower and by each Project Entity of personnel 
skills requirements and, thereafter, development and implementation of training 
programs to improve the skills of its personnel, including in:  (a) pension 
management and oversight; (b) pension reform policy; (c) financial projections 
and modeling; and (d) pension asset management.
(3)
Establishment, equipping and operation of a unit within MOLSS and each 
Project Entity to be responsible for coordination and management of its 
Respective Part of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with:  (a) the provisions of Section 
I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published 
by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
The references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
Page  11
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower 
(excluding the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, but not less than 
$75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) the first contract for goods 
procured in accordance with Part C.1 of this Section I, regardless of the value 
thereof.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods procured in accordance 
with Part C.2 of this Section I, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  12
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with:  (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
The references in paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications.
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines and that are estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 
equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
Page  13
(a)
Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 3, 
with respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract referred to in subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph 3, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means:  (i) in respect of the 
Borrower’s Special Account, Category 1; (ii) in respect of Heilongjiang’s 
Special Account, Category 2; and (iii) in respect of Qingdao’s Special Account, 
Category 3;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of :  (i) the 
Borrower’s Special Account, an amount equivalent to $100,000; (ii) the 
Heilongjiang’s Special Account, an amount equivalent to $220,000; and (iii) the 
Qingdao’s Special Account, an amount equivalent to $180,000; in each case to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Page  14
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the 
Project related to that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
Page  15
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper coordination and management of the Project, 
the Borrower shall establish and thereafter at all times maintain a Project 
implementation unit within MOLSS, with terms of reference and budgetary 
resources acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for ensuring overall 
management of the Project; said PIU shall be managed and staffed with personnel 
in adequate numbers and with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:  (a) develop not later than June 30, 2000, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, a procurement training 
program for staff of its PIU and the PMOs; (b) furnish the same to the 
Association promptly upon its preparation for the Association’s review; and (c) 
thereafter carry out such training program as shall have been approved by the 
Association.
B.
The Borrower’s Respective Part of the Project
1.
Annual Implementation Plan; Training Programs
(a)
The Borrower shall:  (i) prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 
June 30, 2000, and December 1 of each subsequent year, for the Association’s 
review and approval, an annual plan for the implementation of its Respective 
Part of the Project during the following calendar year together with a financing 
plan therefor demonstrating the availability of funds in adequate amounts for 
the Project during said following year (the plan due on June 30, 2000, to cover 
implementation during and financing therefor in respect of the year 2000); and 
(ii) carry out such implementation plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that all training under the Project shall 
be carried out in accordance with a training program acceptable to the 
Association.  To that end, the Borrower shall:  (i) develop an annual training 
plan for the Project, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and in consultation with each Project Entity, said plan to be 
developed and furnished to the Association not later than June 30, 2000, and 
December 1 of each subsequent calendar year, and to cover all training 
activities under the Project during the following calendar year (the plan due on 
June 30, 2000 to cover training activities in the year 2000); (ii) thereafter, 
ensure the implementation of such training plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association; and (ii) by June 1 of each year update the yearly training 
plan, furnish said updated plan to the Association for its review and approval, 
and thereafter carry out all training activities according to such updated 
training plan.
2.
Monitoring and Reporting
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association:
Page  16
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than March 1 and September 1 
in each year, 
beginning September 1, 2000, (A) 
summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed by it pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph and (B) consolidating the semi-annual reports 
furnished by the Project Entities pursuant to Part C.7 of 
this Schedule, all in respect of the preceding calendar 
semester and setting forth the physical and financial 
progress in the implementation of the Project, both 
cumulatively, and in respect of the said preceding calendar 
semester, and proposed measures, indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities, to ensure the 
continued implementation of the Project; and
(ii)
a mid-term report, not later than September 1, 2001, (A) 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, and (B) consolidating the mid-term reports 
furnished by the Project Entities pursuant to Part C.7 of 
this Schedule, all in respect of the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and
(c) 
promptly review with the Association the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
C.
The Project Entities’ Respective Parts of the Project
1.
Project Implementation Arrangements
(a)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Entity a portion 
of the proceeds of the Credit under a Project Implementation Arrangement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and said Project Entity under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall 
include those set forth in paragraphs 2 through 8 below. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:  (i) (A) cause each Project Entity to perform, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Arrangement to 
which it is a party, all of its obligations therein set forth; (B) take or cause 
to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable said Project Entity to 
perform such obligations; and (C) not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and (ii) exercise its 
rights under each of the Project Implementation Arrangements in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Project Implementation 
Arrangements or any provision thereof.
2.
Terms of Availability
(a)
The principal amount of the proceeds of the Credit to be made 
available to a Project Entity under the Project Implementation Arrangement to 
which it is a party shall be the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined on the 
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of the cost of goods and 
services required for said Project Entity’s Respective Part of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (the Credit Amount).
(b)
Each Project Entity’s Credit Amount shall be recovered by the 
Borrower from such Project Entity in semi-annual installments over a period of 
Page  17
not less than seventeen (17) years, including five (5) years of grace.
(c)
A service charge shall be charged on each Project Entity’s Credit 
Amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not to exceed 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
(d)
A commitment charge shall be charged on the principal amount of the 
Credit made available to each Project Entity and not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate not to exceed one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
3.
Project Management  
Each Project Entity shall establish and maintain throughout the period of 
Project implementation, a Project management office, with terms of reference and 
budgetary resources acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for the 
management of its Respective Part of the Project; said PMO shall be managed and 
staffed with personnel in adequate numbers and with terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
4.
Project Implementation  
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than June 30, 2000, and 
December 1 of each subsequent year, for the Association’s review and approval, 
an annual plan for the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project 
during the following calendar year, together with a financing plan therefor 
demonstrating the availability of funds in adequate amounts for its Respective 
Part of the Project during said following year (the plan due on June 30, 2000, 
to cover implementation during and financing therefor in respect of the year 
2000); 
(b)
thereafter carry out its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with said plan as so approved and with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and 
technical practices, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its Respective 
Part of the Project; and
(c)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
said Project Entity of its obligations under the Project Implementation 
Arrangement to which it is a party.
5.
Procurement
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Project Entity shall 
procure the goods and consultants’ services required for its Respective Part of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
6.
Financial Covenants  
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project;
(b)
have its records and accounts, including the records and accounts 
for its respective Special Account, for each year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  18
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested;
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request; and
(e)
for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, (i) 
maintain, in accordance with subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year 
after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; (iii) enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether 
the statements of expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
7.
Monitoring and Reporting  
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Borrower (for forwarding to the Association pursuant to Part 
B.2 of this Schedule):
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than January 20 and July 20 
in each year, beginning July 20, 2000, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed by it 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph in respect of 
the preceding calendar semester and setting forth the 
physical and financial progress in the implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project, both cumulatively, and in 
respect of the said preceding calendar semester, and 
proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to ensure the continued 
implementation of said Project Entity’s Respective Part of 
the Project; and
(ii)
a mid-term report, not later than July 20, 2001, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of its Respective 
Part of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
promptly review with the Association the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
8.
Project Completion
Page  19
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Borrower not later than 7 months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
such Project Entity, for consolidation and forwarding to the Association 
pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with said Project Entity on said plan.
