DowucnO(f
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c 
Report No. P-4498-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 35.0 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT OF SDR 31.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(SAL III)
May 4, 1987
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQTJTVALENTS
Currency Unit           =        CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1, no0                        CFAF 314  (March 1987)
CFAF 1 million          =        US$ 3,185 (March 1987)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AN) MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                      US Equivalent
1 meter (m)              =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =        0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =        0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)           =        2.47 acres (a)
1 metric tor (t)         =        2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)          =        2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR omCaL UsE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAL III)
Table of Contents
Page
Credit Summary ......e..............e..                    .a..                  (i)-(ii)
'PART I -  THE ECONOMY             .1...........................                      1
Background ............*............... ........                         1
Recent Developments ..........                    .........              2
The Structural Adjustment Process ................                       4
Long-Term Prospects ...........    . . ......  ..*.a   . .. *            6
The Adjustment Scenario ...........a............ o                       7
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ...                       10
Tntroduction .....ba........a... a .......               ..*            10
A.   Public Resource Management ........             ..........         11
A.1  Parapublic Sector Reform .......ut        .......            11
A. 2  Public Investment Programming            ..........         16
A .3  Public Finance .........................                    19
A..4  Information Management ............. ..    ...              24
B.    Production and Private Investment
Incentives .a.a..        aa.. aa.. aa...a..aa..aa..aa          25
B,1  Agriculture ..; .........................                    25
B.2  Industry, Trade and Labor              ..............        30
C.    Financial Intermediation  ..*.e   ............                    37
PART III - SOCIAL ASPECTS                ...................... .......             40
A.    Social Dimension of Adjustment .             ............         40
B.   Population Policy .           ..........................           42
L This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the Peormace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank antharization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS ...... ................      .          42
A. Financing ...........................    ..              42
B. Monitorable Actions ........................             44
C. Management of the Program and
Technical Assistance   ..................             46
D.  Procurement and Disbursement                            47
E. Coordination with the IMF...                             48
F.  Benefits and Risks .... *9** ...............            48
PART V - BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL .......................            49
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION . ........ ...  ............. .               52
Text Table
Table I    -   Projections Summary
Table II   -  Key Indicators of Public Enterprise Sector
ANNEXES
Annex I   -   Country Data
Amnex II   -   Status of Bank Operations
Annex III  -   Supplementary Data Sheet
Annex IV   -   Letter of Development Policy
Annex V    -   The Adjustment Scenario
Annex VI   -  Use of IMP Resources
Annex VII -   Development Management Project
Annex VIII -  Matrix of SAL III Program



ti)
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Credit Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Senegal
Amounts:       IDA Credit:    SDR 35.0 million (US$45.0 million equivalent)
SPA Credit:    SDR 31.1 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Special Joint
Financing:   SwF 12.0 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         IDA and SAF Credits:  Standard
Special Joint Financing: Non-reimbursable grant
Description:   The Credits would support the second phase of Senegal's
Medium-Term Adjustment Program (1985-92). This Program aims
at establishing the conditions for self-sustained growth by
progressively withdrawing the State from direct involvement
in production and promoting private sector initiative and
investment, and achieving greater efficiency of public
resource management while restoring internal and external
financial equilibria and creditworthiness. The second phase
of the Program is described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (Annex TIV). It is a logical follow up of
the first phase, including measures, some already taken,
(i)  to  increase  the  efficiency of public resource
management and restore public savings through an
acceleration of the Parapublic sector reform,
institutionalization of the reform of public
investment programming, strengthening of public
finances, with particular emphasis on increasing
revenues, and improving information management;
(ii)  to extend the reform of incentives to private
investment, production and export in agriculture,
industry, trade and employment; and
(iii) to rehabilitate the financial sector, restore the
liquidity of the economy and improve financial
intermediation.
The ongoing Technical Assistance II and Parapublic II
Projects and the proposed Development Management Project
would assist in implementation of the Program. The foreign
exchange provided under the Credits would be used to finance
essential imports.



(ii)
Risks:         The nain risks associated with the proposed operation are
(i) the possibility of weaker than expected response from
the domestic and, particularly, foreign private sector; (ii)
the pressure of certain political parties and interest
groups to postpone certain reforms with the approach of
national elections in February 1988; (iii) the uncertainty
of world prices for the main export commodities and the
vagary of climatic conditions; and (iv) the possibility that
Senegal's  institutions  and  Government's  implementation
capacity may be overtaxed by the comprehensive nature of the
reform program.
Estimated
Disbursements: The credits would be disbursed in three tranches, the first
for US$33.0 mlllion equivalent, upon effectiveness, and the
second and third tranches, each equivalent to US$30.0
million upon satisfactory overall implementation of the
Program.  Performance  reviews would  be  carried  out in
October-November 1987 and February-March 1988. Disburse-
ments of both credits are expected to be made over a
13-month period ending in June 1988.
1M2T: IBRD 18499R
There Is no separate Staff Appraisal Report



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND
A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Develoy-Aent Credit of SDR 35.0 million (US$45.0 million equivalent) and a
proposed Special African Facility Credit of SDR 31.1 million (US$40.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Senegal to
help support the second phase of the Government's structural adjustment
program (SAL III). In addition, I recommend that IDA administer a proposed
Special Joint Financing non-reimbursable contribution of SwF 12.0 million
(about US$8.0 million equivalent) by Switzerland.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Senegal:  An
Economy Under Adjustment" (No. 6454-SE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on February 13, 1987. Basic country data are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Even in the context of Sub-Saharan Africa, Senegal confronts an
unusual  development  challenge.   While  it  inherited  a  r-elatively
well-equipped physical and social infrastructure at independence (1960),
Senegal has since then experienced the lowest GDP growth rate (2.3 percent
per annum) of any African state not affected by war or civil strife. As in
most other African countries, Senegal's population growth is high and
rising (currently estimated at 3.0 percent) and demographic factors will
continue to absorb most of the growth in real incomes for some time to
come. In 1985, Senegal had an estimated per capita income of US$370 1/,
roughly half that of Cameroon or C&te d'Ivoire, placing it squarely in the
ranks of the lower income countries.
4.        Despite considerable efforts at modernization,  the Senegalese
economy has not yet escaped its dependence on traditional mainstays:
millet cultivation, cattle raising and fishing for domestic consumption and
groundnut and fishing production for export. Moreover, this traditional
economy is in stagnation, as is much of the modern sector. Both rural and
urban average incomes are lower in real terms than in 1960, and nearly half
of Senegal's resource-poor and open economy is highly vulnerable to
climatic vagaries and adverse movements in international commodity markets.
Lacking the rich agricultural potential or mineral resources of other
1/ Based on the Bank's Atlas methodology.



-2-
countries on the West African coast, the nation's growth prospects are more
modest than those of some neighboring countries.
5.        Another important feature of the economy is the high concen-
tration in Dakar and the coastal belt of most modern sector employment,
commercial facilities and social services, resulting in important urban-
rural and inter-regional disparities in employment opportunities and
consumption patterns.   The economy is also characterized by widespread
government participation or regulatory controls, although this is now
changing.   The  sluggish  economic  performance  of  the  1960s  and  1970s
witnessed only a small structural shift of employment from agriculture
towards  industry.   Slow growth has also  limited domestic savings and
prolonged dependence on foreign aid.
Recent Developments
6.        Following the sharp decline in real output in 1984 caused by the
severe drought of 1983/84, the Senegalese economy experienced a moderate
recovery in the past two years. However, in spite of the estimated 3.8
percent GDP growth in 1985, the average annual economic growth rate in the
first half of the decade fell to under 2 percent. Given that provisional
GDP estimates in Senegal have tended to be generally over optimistic, the
actual growth performance may even be lower than depicted by the above
figures.   Abundant  and  well-distributed  rainfall  during  the  1985-86
cropping season led to a record grain harvest of 1.25 million tons, or 77
percent more than previous year's level.  While groundnuts have done less
well, there was at least a reversal in the trend toward a reduction in the
area devoted to groundnut cultivation. Combined with higher yields, the
larger area under cultivation raised groundnut production by about 20
percent in 1985-86. The improved agricultural perforuwnce also led to a
rebound in industrial production which registered a real growth rate
estimated at 4 percent in 1986, the first significant expansion since 1983.
Overall, real GDP is estimated by the Government to have grown by 4.6
percent in 1986.
7.        Senegal's inflation performance has improved noticeably in the
past three years. Helped by a sharp decline in the import prices of rice
and petroleum, the substantial strengthening of the CFA franc vis-a-vis the
US dollar, and the continuation of tight domestic credit and monetary
policies, inflation, measured by the GDP deflator, declined to an estimated
7.5 percent in 1986 compared to 13.3 percent in 1984.  But while the
general price trend has been decelerating since 1982, domestic inflation
still remains high, compared to that of France and Senegal's other
industrialized trading partners in Europe. In view of the rigidity of the
exchange rate regime, a further reduction in the rate of inflation remains
an important policy objective.
8.        In line with the Government's past interventionist role in the
economy, price controls remain an important feature in Senegal, although
the system has become much more flexible in recent years.  In its pursuit
of  a policy  of economic pricing  (verite des  prix)  since  1980,  the



-3-
Government has progressively reduced subsidies and sharply reduced the
coverage of price controls.  Currently, prices are fixed directly by the
Government for a limited number of goods and services considered to be of
strategic importance.   For a number of other goods and services, price
increases either must have prior agreement of or notification to the
Ministry of Commerce. Finally, maximum profit margins, varying between 20
and 40 percent, are set for a number of imported commodities. Under its
structural adjustment program, the Government will review the setting of
agricultural producer prices in light of the findings of an on-going
agricultural price and incentive study. Subsidies on fertilizers will also
be gradually eliminated.   In the industrial sector, the Government has
undertaken to remove controls on prices and profit margins for industrial
goods for which quantitative restrictions on imports are being lifted.
9.        The Government  sets the nominal minimum guaranteed wage rate
(salaire minimum interprofessionel garanti - SMIG) which, however, applies
only to a small percentage of the labor force. Host workers in the modern
sector receive wage rates which are largely determined by collective
conventions with trade unions, and which tend to be much higher than the
minimum level and exceptionally high compared to other countries, even at a
more advanced stage of development. On the other hand, wage rates in the
informal sector, because of the surplus rupply of unskilled labor, tend to
be much lower than the legal minimum.
10.       A  particularly  important  achievement  has  been  the  major
turnaround in the Government's fiscal performance, a key element of the
adjustment effort; the overall fiscal deficit, on a commitment basis and
including grants, was reduced from the equivalent of some 8 percent of GDP
in 1982183 to 3.5 percent in 1984185, and it is estimated to have been
brought down further to some 2.3 percent in 1985/86.   Because of the
stagnation in economic activity and weaknesses in tax administration, this
progress was achieved mainly through containment of expenditures and
generation of extraordinary revenues accruing to the National Energy Fund
and the CPSP, the Government's commodity price stabilization agency, as a
result of the sharp fall in world prices of petroleum and cereals. These
exceptional revenues, which compensated for the poor performance in
ordinary revenues, cannot be assured in future years.  The Government,
however, was able to reduce the level of domestic arrears and to meet its
debt obligations, injecting in the process a total of CFAF 73.6 billion
into the economy over the last three years.
II.       After increasing by more than 20 percent on average per year
during the 1981-84 period from the very low level to which they had fallen
in 1980 thanks to much improved commodity prices, Senegal's export earnings
fell significantly in 1985. Although export volume recovered strongly in
1986, much weaker commodity prices, particularly that of groundnut oil
which has fallen by almost 50 percent during 1986, caused export earnings
in 1986 to be no higher than their 1983 level of about CFAF 220 billion
(US$575 million). On the other hand, the major fiscal adjustment of the
recent past together with a rather depressed economy have combined to
reduce the volume of all imports since  1983.  The decline in nominal



-4-
imports was particularly noticeable in 1986 as lower international prices
of petroleum products and grains reduced the import bill by 15 percent. As
a result, the trade deficit declined to about CFAF 71 billion, or about
half of the previous year's level.
12.         The favorable trend in the trade balance was, however, offset
by a substantial deterioration on the services account, attributable to
much  higher  interest  payments  on external  debt.   Lower  international
interest rates and growth in tourism receipts helped to reverse the
situation in 1986.  Consequently, the current account deficit (excluding
official transfers), which amounted to CFAF 166 billion (US$505 million),
or 18.8 percent of GDP, in 1982, widened during 1983-85 but fell to CFAF
127.5 billion (US$368 million), or 10.8 percent of GDP, in 1986.  While
Senegal's balance of payments continues to register an overall deficit in
most years, requiring recourse to exceptional financing, the improving
trend which began in 1983 has persisted.
13.       Between 1981 and 1986, Senegal's total public debt outstanding
increased 2.5 times to reach US$2.2 billion in 1986, or nearly 70 percent
of GDP. Bilateral loans accounted for aluw'st half of Senegal's total debt
as a consequence of a larger share of total disbursements but also of the
repeated rescheduling exercises. Including the last Paris Club agreement
(November 1986), total debt relief obtained from all sources until the end
of fiscal year 1986-87 is estimated to amount to CFAF 177 billion. Thanks
to this debt relief, the debt service ratio has remained manageable,
although it rose from 10.8 percent in 1981 to 21.1 percent by the end of
1986, and all arrears on Senegal's external debt have been settled.
The Structural Adjustment Process
14.       Adjustment of the Senegalese economy became unavoidable at the
end of the 1970s, when a combination of poor financial policies,
over-ambitious investment programs, excessive external and internal
borrowing, worsened terms of trade and successive droughts plunged an
already weakened economy into a severe crisis.  In December 1979, the
Government announced its Medium Term Program for Economic and Financial
Adjustment (PREF), which was worked out wlth assistance of the Bank and the
IMF. It was designed to stabilize the financial situation and create the
basis for stronger growth over the period 1980-84. Policies adopted in the
context of the PREF helped facilitate the mobilization of balance of
payments support and budgetary aid to Senegal and were the basis for an IMF
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for SDR 184.8 million, approved in August
1980, and a combined Structural Adjustment Credit/Loan (IDA, SDR 22.9
million; IBRD, $30 million), approved in December 1980.  Macroeconomic
performance, however, quickly got off track for a variety of internal and
external reasons, including recurrent droughts both in 1980 and in 1981,
and results were mixed for both the SAL and the various IMF programs which
accompanied or followed it between 1980 and 1983.
15.       Although the structural adjustment program supported by the first
SAL met most of the objectives in the areas of parapublic sector



- 5 -
management, production incentives and investment policies,  it ran inito
difficulty in the implementation of policies concerning fertilizer and seed
distribution.   After  a  long  and  difficult  dialogue  on  agricultural
policies, the second tranche of the loan was cancelled on June 30, 1983.
Difficulties were also experienced with Fund programs. At the request of
the Government, the EFF finalized in 1980 was cancelled in September 1981
and replaced by a stand-by arrangement of SDR 63 million for fiscal year
1981/82 which was successfully implemented. The next stand-by program (for
1982-83) was not, however, completed due to the Government's reluctance to
strictly implement agreed measures in a pre-electoral period and to a sharp
drop in the export price for groundnuts which caused major losses to the
CPSP.
16.       At the request of the Government,  the first meeting of the
Consultative Group (CG) for Senegal was organized by the Bank in December
1984.   At  this  meeting,  the  donors  endorsed  Senegal's  medium-tenm
adjustment objectives and broad policy framework for the period 1985-92.
Following the CG meeting, the Government prepared and discussed with the
Bank & three-year action plan for 1985-87 with specific policies and reform
measures to implement the objectives outlined in the medium-term adjustment
program. The main objectives of the program are to reestablish a viable
baZance  of payments  and public  finance  situation,  to  strengthen  the
incentive policy -by progressively withdrawing the State from direct
involvement  in  production  activities  and  promoting  private  sector
initiative and investment-- and achieve greater efficiency of public sector
resource management. The first phase of this program was supported by a
second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II) in the amount of $70 million
and an 18-month stand-by arrangement for SDR 76.6 million which was
approved in early 1985.
17.       Under SAL II the Government has initiated significant reforms in
the  following  areas:    (i)  the  industrial  incentive  system;   (ii)
establishing a sound basis for agricultural development through the
liberalization of input supply, the reorientation of the rural development
agencies ("desengagement") and the specification of a cereals policy; (iii)
liberalization of the rice trade; (iv) strengthening programming and
budgeting of public investment and undertaking a reform of parastatal
enterprises; (v) limiting the growth of current expenditure, including the
civil service wage bill; and (vi) improving public debt management. The
excellent progress achieved under SAL II was spelt out in the September 12,
1986 memorandum on the release of the second tranche, which took place
seven months after approval of the credits, and is summarized by sector in
subsequent sections of this report.
18.       The Government, in close cooperation with the Fund and the Bank,
has set out its basic structural adjustment policies and objectives in a
Policy Framework Paper, 1987-90 (SecMB6-1143) discussed by the Board on
October 30, 1986.  The Policy Framework Paper reiterated key strategies
adopted earlier, such as the promotion of private sector initiative and the
achievement of greater efficiency in public resource management. It also
provided the basis for the finalization last November of a new one-year



-6-
stand-by arrangement for SDR 34 million and a three-year, SDR 40 million
Structural Adjustment Facility with the IMF (para. 128), and for a second
phase of structural adjustment to be supported by the proposed credits.
19.       While preparing and implementing structural adjustment programs
in Senegal and neighboring countries on a bilateral basis 2/, the
Interaction among the policies followed in these countries has emerged as
an important issue, particularly with respect to custom tariff and
agricultural producer prices.  Consequently, we are beginning to take a
multi-country, coordinated approach to structural adjustment, especially
for Senegal, Gambia, Kauritania and Mali.
Long-Term Prospects
20.       Senegal's long term prospects critically depend an the success of
its adjustment program to establish the conditions for self sustained
growth and maximize the use of its limited resources.  While structural
adjustment is a necessary condition for the long term development of the
country it is not, however, sufficient. Because of the modest endowment of
the   country  in  natural  resources,   which   is  aggravated  by  the
desertification process, the links between improved policy environment and
institutional  setting  and  faster  growth  are  far  from  assured.   The
long-term prospects for groundnut oil, the main commodity export of the
country are uncertain. There is considerable potential to develop other
agricultural products, particularly cash crops for export in the newly
irrigated areas in the Senegal river valley and cereals in rainfed areas;
however this will take time and experience with Senegal's agriculture shows
how difficult it is to identify and implement high return projects.
Expansion of the maritime fishing industry which has been very rapid,
becoming the second source of foreign exchange earnings, is now constrained
by a depletion of certain high value stocks. The long-term growth of the
mining sector is dependent on the life of the rock phosphate reserves,
estimated to last for only 15 years, and on market conditions.
Manufacturing development towards export should become an Important source
of growth in the future, but it is constrained by the relatively low
productivity and high cost of labor and the keen competition on world
markets. The reduction of rigidities in the labor market which will be
sought under the Industrial Reforms component of the adjustment program
will contribute to reduce the real cost of labor; this is, however, only a
partial response  to this problem.   There is considerable potential to
develop tourism, again provided that labor costs are reduced.
21.       These problems are compounded by the high rate of population
growth and unsuitability of the education system to the needs of the
economy. Thus, to provide the basis for establishing a long-term
development strategy and to optimize the use of investment resources the
2/   Structural adjustment programs are under implementation in the Gambia
and under preparation in Mauritania.



Government has decided tr, include in its program a study of Senegal's long
tern development prospects, constraints and opportunities. The study would
be conducted jointly by the Government and consultants, financed under an
on-going T.A. project.
The Adjustment Scenario
22.       In  spite  of  the major  constraints  to  the country's  growth
potential mentioned above, the Government has forcefully made the case for
a long-term economic growth rate rtgnificantly higher than the 2.3 percent
annual growth Senegal has managed to achieve in the past two decades. This
stronger growth would be based on the diversification of agricultural
production for export and the domestic market, stronger linkages between a
more efficient industry and the rest of the economy and promotion of
industrial exports.  However, faster growth can only be sustained by a
reversal of some of the past tre:ids in the economy. For these reasons,
Senegal's long-term prospects critically depend on thc success of its
adjustment program to create a stronger economic base for long-term
development.
23.       As set out in the Policy Framework Paper which was agreed with
the Bank and the IMF, the basic long-term objective of the Government's
structural adjustment program is to lay a firm foundation for the
resumption of sustainable growth with equity. More specifically, it aims
to achieve an average annual growth rate of real GDP of about 3.5 percent
per annum over the remaining years of this decade, a rate which would allow
a gradual improvement in real per capita income. The prerequisites for
attaining that objective are an incentive environment which stimulates
private investment and maximizes production and a management of the economy
which o?timizes public resource utilization and promotes domestic savings.
24.       In  agriculture,  adjustment  with  growth  is  to  be  achieved
primarily through policies aimed at increasing food self-sufficiency.
Thus, over the next ten years, agricultural output is projected to grow at
approximately the same rate as the overall economy. This projection is
based on the growth targets adopted in the Cereal Development Plan, which
was endorsed by donors at a meeting on agriculture held in Dakar in June
1986. According to this plan, total cereal production is projected to
reach an average of 1.4 million metric tons between 1991 and 1995, implying
an average  annual growth rate of almost  5 percent.   This relatively
ambitious growth target assumes that agricultural reforms will continue to
receive high priority in order to assure minimum acceptable rural incomes
and provide adequate incentives for farmers to improve farming techniques
and that liberalization of marketing arrangements will be pursued. The
development of irrigation infrastructure in the Fleuve region is expected
to contribute greatly to achieving the above target. The rapid growth in
cereal production will, however, occur partly at the expense of groundnut,
the production of which is projected to recover from recent low levels
and stabilize at the level achieved in the early 1980s, or about 825
thousand  tons  on  average  in  the  1987-95  period.   This  recovery  is



predicated on the maintenance of adequate price incentives to farmers and
to the projected recovery in groundnut oil prices in the next several
years.
25.       In   industry,   current   policy   reforms   and   the   proposed
restructuring of a number of sub-sectors are expected to provide the basis
for stronger growth in the industrial sector. Starting from a small base,
the production of manufactured goods is expected to expand at a rate of
about 3.5 percent in the second half of the 1980s, accelerating to about
5 percent in the first half of the next decade.  Most of the increase is
expected to originate from modern small-scale enterprises in the private
sector.  By contrast, the mining sector is projected to lag behind GDP
because of both demand and supply constraints on phosphate expansion.
Industrial output as a whole is thus forecast to grow at about 4 percent on
average until 1995. Finally, the services sector, which currently accounts
for almost 40 percent of GDP, will experience slower growth due mainly to
the conscious effort to restrict the size of the Government.
26.       Whether or not Senegal will succeed in achieving the growth
target indicated earlier depends, to a large extent, on its ability to
expand its export earnings.  With the projected recovery in groundnut
production, groundnut oil exports are expected to grow at an average rate
of 10 percent in the remaining years of this decade. With the exception of
fish and chemical products, growth in the exports of other commodities and
more particularly phosphate will remain modest.   Overall, total export
volumes are projected to expand at about 4 percent per annum during the
1987-90 period. Senegal's export prospects in the early part of the 1990s
are, however, clouded by the projected stagnation in groundnut exports, the
result of the levelling off of groundnut production. Exports of manufac-
tured goods, although growing rapidly, will not yet be sufficiently
significant to prevent a slowdown in the rate of export growth (in volume
terms) to 2.7 percent in the 1991-95 period. Nevertheless, the combination
of a recovery in the terms of trade, the relative success in the substitu-
tion of local for imported cereals, the continued containment of
non-necessary imports, and the development of an export structure where
non-traditional exports play an increasingly more important role is
expected to lead to an improvement in the resource gap which is projected
to decline from 5.4 percent of GDP in 1986 to about 3 percent by 1995.
27.       The  above  projections  suggest  some  Important  conclusions
regarding  Senegal's  external  capital  requirements.   Assuming that new
commitments increased moderately in real terms, the projections indicate
the need for only modest additional balance of payments financing over the
1987-95 period. While the bunching of scheduled repayments in the next few
years will require continuing debt rescheduling for the remaining years of
this decade, debt relief should no longer be a necessary feature of the aid
package from 1990 onwards.
28.       The achievement of these favorable prospects for the Senegalese
economy is predicated on the combination of several favorable developments.
On the domestic front, they assume that supply responses in agriculture and
industry to current reforms will occur relatively rapidly, creating in the



TABLE I
Macroeconomic Projections - A Summary
Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
Actual     Estim.         Projections
1985      1986       1987-90      1991-95
Growth Rates (percent)
Real GDP                                3.8        4.6        3.5          3.5
Primary                               8.0        9.8        4.7          3.5
Industry                              2.0        4.0        3.7          4.2
(of which Manufacturing               1.3       2.6         3.8          5.2
Services                              3.3        3.2        3.0          3.2
Exports of GNFS                       -12.7       19.9        4.1          2.7
Imports of GNFS                        -6.8        3.0        2.9          3.1
Share of GDP (percent)
Consumption                            98.8       91.6       88.8         88.4
Gross Investment                       13.7       13.8        13.9        13.7
Budgetary Deficit /a                    4.6        3.3         1.5         1.0
Resource Balance lb                   -13.0       -5.4        -3.8        -3.1
Current Account Balance /b /c         -18.4      -10.8       -8.1         -6.7
Overall Balance /b                     -0.4        0.4       -0.3         -0.1
Memorandum Ites
Inflation rate, CPI (X)                12.8        6.1        5.5          5.0
Domestic Saving Ratio (Z)               1.2        8.4        11.2         11.6
ICOR                                    2.7        5.1        3.9          4.0
External Debt O/S ($m) /b            2002.5    2157.2      2778.2       3804.7
Debt/GDP (Z)                           82.8       69.5        60.7         56.3
Debt Service Ratio (Z)                 17.4       21.1        26.1         24.7
/a Cash basis
7T End of period
7F Excluding official transfers
Source: Senegal - An Economy Under Adjustment, February 1987



- 10 -
process the basis for economic growth as well as for stronger exports and
import substltutes which, in turn, lead to an improvement in the balance of
payments.  In agriculture, they suppose not only a rapid development of
irrigated  agriculture  but  also  a  successful  diversification  into
high-valued export crops.  In industry, these projections are based on the
assumption that the implementation of the incentive policy reforms will
create the necessary environment to attract private --both domestic and
foreign-- investments.
29.       While the reform program has been launched, several constraints
remain to be overcome.  Institutional rigidities, supply constraints in
important sectors and the limited capacity of the economy to re-orient
rapidly towarcd  export could prove to be serious obstacles to achieving
the target growth rates. There is uncertainty, for instance, regarding the
speed at which private entrepreneurs adjust to the new industrial
environment and foreign investors respond to the new opportunities in
Senegal.   Given the difficult financial position of Senegal's banking
sector,  adequate  credit  availability  is  by  no  means  assured.   In
agriculture, the high cost of on-farm infrastructure development could
prove to be a significant hindrance to the rapid exploitation of irrigation
water in the Fleuve region unless high-valued export crops could be rapidly
developed. Last but not least, external factors such as weather conditions
and the speed of recovery of international markets for Senegal's
traditional exports will also be important.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
30.       The proposed SAL III would support the second phase of Senegal's
Structural Adjustment.   The principal elements of the program for this
second phase will be:
(i)  to increase the efficiency of public resource management and
restore public savings through an acceleration of the parapublic
sector reform, institutionalization of the reform of public
±nvestment   programing,   strengthening   of   public   finance
management, with a particular emphasis on increasing revenues and
improving information management;
(ii)  to extend the reform of incentives, including liberalizing the
regulatory framework in trade and employment, in order to foster
private investment and efficient production and export in
agriculture and industry; and
(iiI) to rehabilitate the financial sector, restore the liquidity of
the economy and improve financial intermediation.
The elements of the program are described in the sections below and
summarized in matrix form in Annex VIII.



- 11 -
31.       The Government has shown a strong commitment to accelerating the
implementation of its Adjustment Program and is eager to implement
difficult reforms and obtain positive results before the presidential and
parliamentary  elections  scheduled  for  February  1988.   The  process  of
structural adjustment is being well internalized within the Government.
The Technical Committee (Comite Technique de Suivi), which has been
established under SAL II with UNDP assistance as the permanent Secretariat
of an Interministerial Committee chaired by the President, has been very
efficient in coordinating the formulation and execution of the Program.
A.   Public Resource Management
A.1 Parapublic Sector Reform
32.       Background.  The parapublic sector has grown very rapidly since
independence.   As of January  1,  1985,  it consisted  of  62 wholly  or
majority-owned enterprises and 24 public agencies (etablissements publics).
In addition the State held indirect participation in 46 enterprises, mostly
through the banking system. The Government has recognized that: (i) the
public sector has been overextended; (ii) the performance of the public
enterprises (PEs) has been low and below that of comparable private sector
entities; and (iii) government-enterprise relations have resulted in
elaborate but ineffective administrative controls that have done little to
promote higher performance but instead have stifled PE managerent.
33.       In July 1985, the Government adopted a Parapublic Sector Policy
Statement that provides an excellent reform framework and an action plan
for its implementation. The major provisions of this plan were incor-
porated in the SAL II Letter of Development Policy, including measures to:
(a) reduce the size of the parapublic sector through divestiture of
non-essential PEs: transferring ownership of viable enterprises
to the private sector and closure/liquidation of unprofitable
ones;
(b) improve PE performance through restructuring PEs, carrying out
enterprise rehabilitation programs, and instituting a system of
contract-programs to set performance targets for PEs remaining
under whole or partial state ownership;
(c) reorient government oversight functions and procedures through
promoting the autonomy and accountability of PE management and
through   developing   administrative   procedures   in   setting
enterprise objectives and evaluating performance; and
(d) rationalize financial relationships between the State and the PEs
through increasing the transparency of financial relations and
reducing subsidies.



- 12 -
Performance under SAL II
34.       During  1986,  the  Government  initiated  action  on  all  major
components of the reform program, demonstrating commitment to its overall
objectives.  The pace of implementation has, however, been slower than
expected. The complexlty of the reforms and the degree of resistance to
some of its key objectives have proven greater than originally estimated,
placing heavy policy and technical leadership demands on the implementing
institutions. An initial reluctance to take full advantage of specialized
advisory services under the Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project
also contributed to delays,  These issues have been addressed by the
authorities. The management of the reform program has been strengthened;
regular review meetings have led to Government decisions on a number of
thorny issues and the preparation of a realistic schedule to attain the
reform objectives.  Further measures are under preparation to strengthen
the mandate and human resource base of the agencies charged with
coordinating and monitoring the application of this reform.
35.       Reducing the size of the parapublic sector.  For the purposes of
divestiture, a classification of the portfolio of PE shares directly owned
by the State was undertaken and a decision taken to sell all its holdings
in 15 PEs and to reduce its holdings in 13 others.  After considerable
delays in drawing up terms of reference, preparation of detailed
divestiture procedures and of specific proposals for the sale of shares in
the 10 PEs with the best sale prospects is now well advanced. A public
information campaign will be launched in May 1987. The Government also
initiated liquidation procedures for 6 mixed enterprises and 3 public
agencies, and completed liquidations started before July 1985 in 10 other
PEs.
36.       Improving PE performance.  Contract-programs  (CPs) were signed
with 6 PEs and rehabilitation programs were adopted by two PEs. A seminar
on experience with the contract-program system in December 1986 led to the
identification of measures to improve compliance monitoring systems and
performance  evaluation  procedures.   Proposals  to  operationalize  these
measures are being introduced, with priority given to procedures to Improve
compliance with financial covenants.
37.       Government  oversight  agencies.   A  study  of  the  statutory
responsibilities of the Government oversight agencies was carried out and
proposals to streamline the system submitted to Government. These have
served in drafting a new basic law to govern the parapublic sector and its
major application decrees.  These are undergoing final review prior to
presentation to the National Assembly. Changes sought include the phased
elimination of all a priori administrative controls over PEs, stringent
financial reporting and auditing requirements, and a clarification of the
responsibilities of the State's representatives on Boards of Directors.
38.       State-PE financial relationships.  Direct subsidies to PEs in the
FY 1986/87 Budget and the draft FY 87/88 budget are respectively 5 percent
and 15 percent  below the FY 1985/86 level. A study of indirect subsidies



- 13 -
is underway to establish the nature and magnitude of indirect benefits and
incentives granted to PEs. A computerized data base has been implemented
for monitoring these subsidies and, more generally, for keeping track of
financial transactions between the State and the PEs and of key indicators
of PE performance. The stock of cross-arrears between the State and the
manufacturing and commercial PEs as of June 30, 1985 was established and
reconciled. Settlement of these obligations has been delayed by technical
difficulties in tracing intervening payments and devising procedures
conforming with public accounting principles for settling claims on
Government that had not been budgeted. Solutions have now been agreed as
has a timetable for settling outstanding cross and net arrears.
The Program under SAL III
39.       SAL III program is the continuation of actions agreed under
SAL II. The content and implementation schedule of the Government Action
Plan have been revised to focus more sharply on the critical reform issues,
including strengthening the management of the reform program.  For the
period 1987-89, the revised action plan focuses on the following five
themes: (a) strengthening management of the reform; (b) divestiture of
government holdings and liquidation of non-viable PEs; (c) improving the
economic performance of remaining PEs; (d) increasing the transparency of
financial relations between the State and PEs and improving their impact on
public finances; and (e) rationalizing the legal and institutional
framework of Government oversight over the sector. The main features of
the Actlon Plan with respect to each of these themes is presented below.
40.       Management of the reform.  The Government is aware of the heavy
demands of implementing the parapublic sector reforms in a timely manner.
In order to strengthen the management of the reform, it is in the process
of appointing a senior official with prior experience as the administrative
head of a Ministry and as a Managing Director of a parapublic enterprise as
well as private sector experience to lead implementation. It will also
present by July 1987, complementary measures to: (a) broaden the mandate
and composition of the GESP, the interministerial advisory body on
parapublic sector issues, in order to give it a more prominent role in
recommending policy issues and expediting the implementation of agreed
policies; and (b) strengthen the- capacity of the Contrat-Plan Unit to
provide the GESP with the technical analysis necessary for sound policy
preparation.
41.       Divestiture.   By  October  1987  the  Government's  divestiture
program will have become fully operational with the adoption of detailed
procedures for privatizing PEs. The offering for sale of shares in the



- 14 -
first 10 mixed enterprises 3/ (see Table II), the identification of 10 to
17 additional PEs to be partly or wholly divested, and the completion of
liquidation procedures, except for litigated claims, for 7 mixed
enterprises 41 and 2 EPs 5/ are conditions of second tranche release. By
the end of 1987, the Government will also bave transformed at least one EP
(CEREEQ) into a mixed enterprise and offered for sale a large block of its
shares.  It will also have reevaluated its remaining portfolio of PEs to
identify further candidates for liquidation. Agreed programs for winding
down by 1990 the operations of four PEs and sharply reducing the scope of
activities of tdo others 6/ will be pursued.
42.       Improving PE performance.  The contract-program (CP) will remain
the main instrument for setting and evaluating PE performance, even though
the credibility of this instrument has been eroded by the failure to adhere
to the financial covenants. Efforts over the next years will focus first
on overcoming this credibility gap (see para. 44 below). Other measures to
improve PE performance include: (a) strengthening the capacity of the
contract-program unit to evaluate FE performance against CP indicators by
more closely involving the control bodies and technical ministries, and by
selective recourse to spec±alized advisory services; (b) extending the
coverage of the CP process to 4 and 3 additional PEs in 1987 and 1988
respectively 7/; (c) implementing rehabilitation programs with 4 PEs and
two Government-owned banks 8/; and (d) carrying out programs to assist PE
managements strengthen their internal management control systems.
43.       Financial relationships.  Direct subsidies to PEs will be reduced
according to the following schedule: from their FY 1985/86 level, 15
percent in PY 1987/88, 30 percent in FY 1988/89 and 50 percent in
FY 1989/90. Modifications to this schedule would be examined if justified
3/   These are Berliet-S&n&gal, Hamo, SPHU-Teranga, VACAP, SAIH-Ngar and
SPT for total privatization; and SERAS, SNSSS, Dakar-Marine and SICAP
for partial privatization.
4/   Bud-Senegal, COSENA, SNPT, Snemetallurgie, SSE, SEGI and SOSEPRA.
51   STN and SONAR.
6/   SOMIVAC, SODAGRI, SODEVA and SODES? are to be wound down by 1990;
SODEFITEX and SAED will have a reduced range of activities.
7/   SAED, SENELEC, SOMIVAC, OPCE and OHLM in 1987.  SONATRA, PAD,
SONACOS/SEIB in 1988. In addition CP will be renewed with SOTRAC in
1987 and with RCFS and SONEES in 1988.
8/   The PEs are SICAP, and CNTDS in 1987, ORTS and Dakar-Marine in 1988.
The Banks are BNDS and USB.



- 15 -
TABLE II
Key Indicators of Public Enterprise Sector
and First Ten Enterprises to be Privatized
Indicators (1983 data)                      PE Sector          10 Enterprises
-----CFAF billions---
Capital, nominal value                        86.4                   7.1
State's share of capital                      33.1                   4.6
Shares to be sold                              8.6                   3.2
Employees /1                              (33,924)                  n.a.
Turnover                                     439.4                  23.4
Value-added /2                               127.6                  11.0
Gross investments /3                          56.5                   3.7
Wage bill /4                                  61.3                   5.0
Gross profits                                 -6.6                   0.7
Operating subsidies                           13.5                     -
Net profits                                  -24.5                  -0.3
Corporate income taxes                         4.4                   1.0
Other taxes                                    6.8       
Customs duties /5                              2.6                  n.a.
/1   Total employment in the modern sector is estimated at 210,000, of whom
about 70,000 are civil servants.
/2   GDP in 1984 was CFAF 1,015 billion, of which 280 billion in the
secondary sector.
/3   Private sector investment estimated at CFAF 108 billion.
14 Government wage bill totalled CFAF 103 billion in 1984.
/5   In 1984, total customs revenues were CFAF 73.4 billion, total
Government revenues CFAF 189.4 billion.
Source:   ContT6le Financier de la Presidence and Direction de la
PrEvisfon, Ministry of Economy and Finance.



- 16 -
by studies of the actual cost of public service missions. The Government
has also decided that all operating subsidies to enterprises will be
budgeted under this heading, putting an end to the practice of including
payments under other headings or in supplementary treasury accounts. The
Government will prepare an action plan for implementing the recomendations
of the study on indirect subsidies, in particular proposals to convert
certain indirect subsidies into direct subsidies (para. 66). In this case,
the base for calculating the reduction in direct subsidies will be revised.
44.       In order to improve compliance with financial obligations under
CPs, the Government will undertake the following measures: (a) carry out an
annual review of the State's financial commitments under CPs and of
identified sources of funding; (b) renegotiate CP commitments that cannot
be funded; (c) agree, before July I of each year, with the Treasury and PE
managements on a schedule of forecast payments; and (d) improve procedures
to monitor payment.  An agreed schedule of forecast CP payments will be
drawn up for FY 1987/88 and will serve as the basis for monitoring
compliance  with  contractual  obligations.   Timely  payment  of  these
obligations for the first half of FY 1987/88 is a condition of third
tranche release.
45.       Other measures to clarify financial relationships between the
State and the PEs include: (a) the settlement by October 1987 of
cross-arrears between the State and manufacturing and commercial PEs
through June 30, 1986, and agreement to a schedule for settling net
balances; and (b) the implementation of forecasting modules to complete a
management information system on the parapublic sector.
46.       Legal and institutional framework.  The Government is aware that
the attainment of the objectives of the New Policy for the Parapublic
Sector will require more than mere revisicns of existing laws and
regulations; the behavior and attitudes of institutions and individuals
will need to be changed. In addition to submitting a new legal framework
for the parapublic sector to the National Assembly, detailed proposals will
be  prepared  by  July  1987  for:  (a) gradually  phasing  out  a priori
administrative controls over the operations of industrial and commercial
public  agencies;   (b) for  implementing  the  recommendations  of  the
complementary study of the administrative control bodies, focussing on
their effectiveness, the efficiency of current procedures, and on skills
requirements and staffing profiles to bring their activities in line with
government policies; and (c) implementing the recommendations of the study
on the role, functions and proposals for increasing the effectiveness of PE
Boards of Directors in promoting efficiency.
47.       As under SAL II, technical assistance required for the timely
implementation of the agreed actions will be provided under the Second
Technical Assistance Project for the Parapublic Sector.
A.2 Public Investment Programming
48.       Background.  The economic and financial difficulties experienced
by Senegal since the mid-1970s have been accentuated by the weakness of the



- 17 -
public investment selection, programming, execution and monitoring process,
as analyzed by the recent review of the Three-Year Public Investment
Program (Report No. 6450-SE).  The four-year development plans (six of
which were completed through 1985) emphasized external resource mobiliza-
tion at the expense of allocative efficiency; implemented the Government's
policy of replacing foreign ownership of productive assets by national
(mostly public) ownership; and carried out the Government's role of "social
provider", liberally interpreted as ranging from job creation to supplying
subsidized goods and services.  The result of these policies was a low
return on investment, estimated at some 6 percent in the late 1970s - early
1980s, as compared to an average cost of borrowing of more than 7 percent.
This is at the core of Senegal's weak debt-servicing capabilities and
public finance difficulties.
49.       The Government has undertaken to improve the efficiency of public
investments by: (i) improving the analytical basis of the Seventh Plan and
its investment component; (ii) implementing an interim two-year public
investment program (1985-86/1986-87) which reflects the new emphasis on
private sector incentives and investment, and the constraints of the
adjustment program; (iii) introducing a three-year "rolling" investment
program (1987/88-1989/90) as a first step of the reform of the programming
and budgeting process; and (iv) preparing an Action Plan to fully implement
this reform over the next few years (para. 53).
50.       The Seventh Plan (1985-86 - 1988/89) outlines an economic and
financial policy consistent with Senegal's Medium- and Long-term Economic
and Financial Adjustment Program -- in particular, a reduction of the
investment/CDP ratio from 17 percent in the 1970s to 14 percent -- and
provides for a reallocation of resources to the primary and quarteruary
sectors. A distinctive feature of the Seventh Plan is the delineation of
21 Priority Action Programs (PAPs), designed to focus investment on
well-defined priorities.   The two-year PIP was derived from the first
two years of the Seventh Plan, by eliminating some large new projects of
questionable priority or justification (especially in the mining, energy
and sewerage sectors), paying closer and more systematic attention to the
advancement phase of projects, reducing the share of privately-financed
projects, and curtailing State guarantees to private investors.
51.       The three-year "rolling" PIP (1987/88 - 1989/90) is the first
product of the new programming and budgeting system introduced in 1986. It
was supported by SAL II. It represents marked progress over past programs
in   terms  of  size,   composition,   selection  criteria  and  project
documentation. The PIP consists of 388 projects with a total cost of CFAF
384 billion during the three years of the program, i.e. almost 8 percent of
GDP, as compared to about 12 percent during the previous six years. The
reduction in size was achieved through a more efficient use of capital,
emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance operations and high-return
productive investments, and by programming more realistically investments
according to their advancement and financing phase. The three-year PIP
allocates 56 percent of its resources to projects in direct support of
production and 36 percent to rehabilitation projects, while 79 percent



- 18 -
of the projects are linked to PAPs, as compared to only 53 percent during
the previous two-year program.
52.       The draft 1987/90 PIP was reviewed by the Association as a
condition for the second tranche release of SAL II. The review concluded
that it represented considerable progress towards improved programming of
public investment.  It had, however, a number of weaknesses, which are
noted in the Public Investment Review and have been discussed with the
Government.
53.       SAL III.  The Government has decided to address these weaknesses
and other issues through a reform of the planning, programming and
budgeting system.  The reform program, is being completed and will be
presented to the Higher Planning Council of Senegal before June 30, 1987
(condition of effectiveness).   It  comprises  a number of specific and
monitorable actions to improve:  (i) the analysis and the formulation of
economic policies; (ii) project preparation, programming, execution and
monitoring; and (iii) the link between capital and current outlays. Among
the important decisions to be taken by the Government on this occasion is
the re-orientation of the economic and social planning system, its link to
public investment programming and its role for setting macro and sectoral
economic policies in Senegal. The study of Senegal's long term development
prospects, constraints and opportunities (para. 21) should be completed by
the end of June 1988. Its terms of reference are being prepared with the
assistance of the Association.
54.       The Government has decided to implement in 1987-88 a number of
measures included in the reform program bearing on economic policy-making
and on most phases of the project cyicle.  It has identified specific
targets for addressing during the preparation of the next PIP some of the
issues raised by the review of the 1987/90 PIP. as follows:
-    Improving  the  coherence  of  investment  choices  with  the
macroeconomic framework and development opportunities;
-    preparing  and  disseminating  a  standard  manual  for  project
preparation and economic and financial evaluation;
-    transferring    project    identification    and    preparation
responsibilities  for  rural  development,  water  supply  and
sanitation, transport and energy, education and health to the
respective technical ministries by end-March 1988;
adopting a Plan of Action  to improve project execution and
completing the computerized monitoring of physical and financial
project execution;
improving the 1988/89 - 1990/91 PIP, particularly as regards:
consistency with the macroeconomic framework, sect7oral strategies
and the adjustment program; economic and financial appraisal for
new projects; estimating the PIP impact on public finances and



- 19 -
external debt; reducing the number of projects and consolidating
the program by economic sectors; reconciling (or, eventually,
consolidating) project and programming briefs; and reconciling
parapublic sector investments with the Investment component of
the contract-programs.
A satisfactory review by the Association of the draft PIP 1988/89 - 1990/91
according to agreed criteria based on the principles above would constitute
a condition of release of the third tranche.
55.       Certain measures of the Program in the public finances area will
help improve in the medium-term the link between capital and current
Government expenditure and guide public investment decisions. This is the
case, for example, with the proposed functional analysis of current
expenditure, the introduction of multi-annual public finance forecasting
(para. 69), the strengthening of public debt management (para. 64), and the
elimination of exemptions on import duties and taxes on foreign financed
public and para-public projects (para. 62).
56.       The effectiveness of the measures taken or envisaged by the
Government to improve the efficiency of Senegal's public investment will
depend to a large extent on the quality of the financing decisions by the
donors themselves, especially with regard to the focus, size and design of
projects and their consistency with macroeconomic and sectoral objectives,
including public finance constraints and goals. The preparation of well
thought out and documented PIPs is expected to assist in and improve donor
decisions.   In addition,  the Consultative Group provides  an important
vehicle for the coordination of investment decisions between Senegal and
the donors, and among donors. The sectoral meetings on telecommunications,
energy and agriculture, held within the CG framework, have proven effective
in improving consensus on sectoral investment strategies and mobilizing
required financing. Additional sectoral meetings are planned in the next
twelve months, for education, health, and water supply.
A.3 Public Finance
Recent Developments
57.       The Gover.nment's fiscal policy has several inter-related major
objectives: (i) restoring budgetary savings to finance Investment and
adequately service debt; (ii) assisting the country's economic recovery;
(iii) retiring past arrears to reestablish the liquidity of the economy;
and (iv) promoting social equity and employment creation. Given Senegal's
membership in the West African Monetary Union and the ensuing rigidities in
the areas of monetary and exchange rate policies, fiscal policies are of
special importance in the structural adjustment process.
58.       Over the past three to four years, Senegal made Important strides
towards improving its public finance situation and initiating structural
reforms in this area. The Central Government's financial deficit has been



- 20 -
reduced from 8.2 percent of GDP in 1982/83 to 2.3 percent in 1985/86 and a
projected 1 percent in 1986/87 (on a commitment basis). This reduction has
been attained through:   ti) a reduction in the growth of expenditures,
particularly for materials and supplies and capital outlays, and -- to some
extent -- slowing down the growth of the wage bill; and (1i) the
mobilization since 1985/86 of extraordlnary revenue by taxing import
commodities whose world market prices have fallen sharply (oil and rice, in
partlcular). The Government has prepared a reform of its tax and tariff
legislation; has taken steps to disengage the State from production by
reducing controls and direct subsidies, by limiting indirect subsidies and
guarantees to enterprises, and by improving the transparency of its
relations with the economy; and has defined a series of measures to
continue  these policies over the medium-term.   As a result  of these
efforts, Senegal has met all performance criteria agreed under SAL II and
the 1985/86 stand-by with the IM, particularly as regards the overall
budget deficit, the volume of the wage bill, the reduction of domestic
arrears, and the settlement of external arrears.
The Program for SAL III
59.       There  are  clear  limitations  to  further efforts to  restrain
expenditures particularly in light of their negative Impact on Senegal's
ability to maintain and operate essential infrastructure, and to invest.
On the other hand, the performance in generating ordinary revenues has
remained poor because of the weak tax administration and substantial tax
evasion.   Thus,  the  Government  has  decided  for  the  second  phase of
adjustment to put the emphasis on improving resource mobilization and
optimizing resource allocation, while continuing its efforts to limit the
growth of expenditures.
60.       The tariff reform (adopted in August 1986) and the first phase of
the tax reform are important steps towards Improved resource mobilization
while supporting ongoing reforms of industrial and private investment
incentives, and of the parapublic sector. They would broaden the tax base
by reducing unwarranted exemptions and tax evasion, and improve the equity
of the tax system, and thus income distribution. The first phase of the
tax reform reflected in a new Tax Code was approved by the National
Assembly in January 1987 and has become effective recently.
61.       Implementation of the first phase of the tax reform will be
monitored by the Association, in coordination with the IMF which has been
providing technical assistance for the elaboration of the reform, and will
constitute a major element of SAL III. It includes:
-    extension of the value added tax (VAT) to new sub-sectors and
changes in the VAT system in the commerce sector, streamlining of
provisions relating to the taxation of the informal sector and
conversion of excise taxes to ad valorem duties;



- 21 -
provisiorns  to  stimulate  investment  and  employment  creation
(accelerated depreciation, rebates on profit taxes and tax
exemptions on rcinvested profits);
the streamlining of direct taxation for individuals and companies
(including elimination of exemptions and changes in the system of
joint returns);
-    an increase in the minimum income subject to taxation and in-
creases in the number of tax deductions of a social nature and
reductior. of taxation on the rural sector; and
-    a reduction of the rate of the TPS (tax on services) on interest
income from saving accounts from 17 to 7 percent.
On balance, it is estimated that this first phase of the reform will
produce a real increase of 15 to 20 percent in domestic tax revenues in
fiscal year 1989 when this phaee's full impact will be felt.  This tax
reform is complemented with a program of actions to improve tax
administration and to computerize tax assessment and collection at the
"Direction Generale des Imp5ts at des Domaines".  The reintegration of the
various exceptions (special conventions with enterprises providing tax or
custom duty exemptions, indirect subsidies, etc.) to the common code, which
has been undertaken by the Government and formalized In the new Investment
Code, should also go a long way towards increasing revenue.
62.       Other important measures which have been decided jointly with the
tax reform include the taxing of externally-financed public investments,
the sale of the residential built-on plblic land and the preparation of a
fiscal cadaster. The sale cf residential built-on public land will produce
exceptional revenues over a period of five years. In addition, it will
generate future increases in tax revenues on real estate transactions and
enlarge the real estate tax base.  The taxes and duties on externally
financed public projects would be paid by the Government as of July 1987.
Prima facie, the financial impact of this reform on the budget would be
neutral. It would have, however, substantial real economic and financial
benefits by putting an end to the widespread fraud on custom duties on
equipment goods; contributing to improving public investment programming
and budgeting by the Government; eliminating the bias in favor of public
versus priva. e investment; and reducing the bias in favor of capital
intensive investments.
63.       In parallel with the on-going Tariff reform (Section B.2), a new
Customs Code, which is to be presented to the National Assembly in the near
future, aims at strengthening the authority of the Customs Administration
to stem fraud on custom duties and smuggling. A program to computerize
custom statements and reorganize the Custom Administration has been
prepared and will be implemented, to be fully operational at the end of
1988.  This computerization  should also considerably help increase the
proceeds from custom duties.



- 22 -
64.       The preparation of a second phase of the tax reform will also
start under SAL III. The following main reforms are envisaged:
-    reintegrating derogatory rules (regimes derogatoires) into the
General Tax Code, mainly by having discontinued the past practice
of Special Tax Agreements with enterprises, and by attempting to
review existing Agreements (para. 98);
-    introducing a unique General Income Tax system if warranted by
proposed studies, to replace the "systame ce6dulaire";
-    generalizing  the  application  of  the  value-added  tax  (VAT),
particularly to the commerce sector -- subject to the
introductiou of proper accounting practices in this sector; and
-    taxing urban property in the Greater Dakar area, following the
introduction of a fiscal cadaster.
65.       To consolidate the progress already achieved under SAL II, the
Government intends to continue improving the allocation and management of
public expenditures, with a view to restraining the growth of expenditure
while proiiding a better range and quality of services to the economy. The
Government will continue reducing the share of the wage bill in total
current expenditures; would take steps to achieve a net reduction of the
civil service staff in the medium term and would improve pe-csonnel
management. Specific actions include: (i) maintaining for the fiscal year
1987-88 the number of civil servants and contractual staff below the figure
of 68,000, which is to be achieved at the end of June 1987 under the IF
program; (ii) limiting new recruitment in the civil service to the output
of the Government Training Schools - which is below projected normal
retirements - and reducing the entries into the Training Schools; (iii)
encouraging voluntary resignations by establishing special incentives and a
Reinsertion Fund (para. 113); (iv) limiting the ratio of the wage bill to
current expenditures to 52 percent in 1987/88, 51 percent in 1988/89 and 49
percent in 1989/90 (the target for 1987/88 would be met by auditing the
payroll to eliminate staff in irregular positions, and by limiting salary
increases to scale advancements and promotion); and (iv) strengthening
personnel management by computerizing the personnel files and restructuring
the payroll department. At the same time, the possibility of introducing a
system of financial and non-monetary incentives to civil servants will be
explored in the context of the proposed Development Management Project.
The auditing of the payroll has started beginning April 1987. Meeting the
ceiling of 68,000 persons for the civil service is a condition of third
tranche release.
66.       In  order  to  continue  the  efforts  started  under  SAL  II  to
strengthen control over subsidy payments, the Government would: (i) review
the possibility of transforming indirect subsidies to enterprises such as
tax exemptions, preferential tariffs, subsidies in kind (land, buildings)
into budgetary subsidies, or eliminate them, following an ongaing study to
be completed in September 1987; these indirect subsidies have become so



- 23 -
widespread over the years that their size and scope could not be assessed
at the present time; (ti) further reduce overall budget subsidies by 10
percent in 1"¶7/88 and 15 percent in 1988/89 by limiting thes to support
social/public services provided by enterprises and institutions 91; (iii)
reconcile the subsidy program with the needs assessed In the context of
contract-programs between the Government and public enterprises (para. 42);
(iv) establish an appropriate system for accurate recording of subsidies
(with an economic and functional classification) and their monitoring.
67.       The reduction of the Government domestic arrears and debts --
owed to private and parapublic enterprises as well as to the banking sector
-- represents a priority use for the recycling of budgetary savings into
the economy to allow faster growth. The Government is strongly committed
to further reducing the stock of arrears and preventing new arrears from
occurring and this is closely monitored by the IMF under its Stand-by
programs. The following measures will be taken:
-    an inventory and the reconciliation of cross-arrears between the
Government and parapublic enterprises as of June 30, 1985 has
already been carried out.   Their updating through December 1986
will be undertaken and a timetable for their gradual retirement
over a five-year period will be prepared in agreement with the
F;
-    the stock  of arrears  to  private enterprises  has also  been
evaluated and the Government has indicated the priorities for
their settlement as follows:  (i) arrears to small/medium-scale
enterprises; (ii) arrears to large-scale enterprises with highest
economic and fiscal multiplier effect; and (iii) other things
being equal, the oldest arrears would be settled first; and
-    Government debts to the banking sector, which consist mainly of
guarantees on loans in default, will be settled or consolidated
iLl the context of the rehabilitation of individual banks
(para. 108).
68.       The Government will continue the program already in motion aimed
at improving public debt management. Several decisions have already been
9/   The target based on the existing budgetary subsidies, of reduction by
a minimum of 50 percent (in nominal terms) between 1985/86 and
1989/903 is still applicable.



- 24 -
implemented over the last two years: to discontinue commercial borrowing,
to curtail State guarantees to private borrowers, and to discontinue the
transfer of debt relief negotiated by the Government to final borrowers.
and  to  increase  the  resources  allocated  to  the  Caisse  Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA: a special treasury account from which debt service
payments are made) by a minimum of 10 percent a year. The Government has
reiterated his commitment to limit its guarantee on private investmentsf
borrowings to exceptional cases. Such cases would be annexed to the PIP.
As a next step -- through November 1987 -- the computerized debt management
system established with IDA-financed technical assistance will integrate
scheduled and effective transactions on medium- and long-term external debt
(including debt guaranteed and on-lent), with a view to providing data on
outstanding debt and arrears, and to issuing computerized payment orders.
Through June 1988, this system will be extended to cover external subsidies
and grants from public sources, and domestic medium- and long-term debt of
the Government.
39.       In addition to mobilizing fiscal resources and controlling and
optimizing expenditures, the Government intends to review the pattern of
current expenditure allocation among economic sectors, and the balance
between current and capital outlays. The former is largely determined by
the existing system of "services votes", which extends quasi-automatically
the endowment of various sectors; the latter is affected by a long-standing
dichotomy between the execution of current and capital expenditures --
capital expenditure being considered somewhat exogenous to the budget,
since mostly externally-financed. To address these issues, the Government
will undertake with the assistance of the Bank a detailed analysis of the
sectoral and functional patterr c. current expenditures, and will introduce
a multi-annual (three-year) forecasting system of public finances. These
actions were already proposed under the SAL II, but could not be completed
because  of  staff  constraints  and  competing  tasks  of  the  concerned
Government departments.
A.4 Information Management
70.       Major weaknesses exist as regards the availability,  quality,
consistency and timeliness of economic and social data in Senegal. There
are, for instance, major deficiencies in the macroeconomic data base and
sectoral data to support specific reforms and economic and financial
forecasts. Improvement in the provision of better statistical information
is one of the important objectives of the proposed adjustment program.
71.       To this end, an action program to upgrade the capacity of the
Statistics Department of the Ministrv of Economy and Finance to improve the
collection, processing and distribution of basic economic data has been
designed. In the next eighteen months, the main objective of the action
program incorporated under the SAL III Program will be to compile reliable
and timely national accounts at current and constant prices. To achieve
this aim, the Statistical Office will work to establish and document the
methodology and concrete measures including: ti) the gathering, analysis
and effective use of company questionnaires for the period 1982-86; Cii)



- 25 -
the establishment of financial accounts for public administration; and
(iii) the preparation of a national household budget and consumption
survey. The elaboration of provisional national accounts at current prices
for calendar years 1982 through 1986 is a condition of third tranche
release. The Statistics Department is also preparing a population census
which is scheduled to start early next year.
72.       In the medium term, the Statistics Department proposes to set up
a permanent system of administrative statistics, to conduct a number of
sample surveys in key informal sectors for which data do not currently
exist and to implement a program for improving foreign trade statistics.
The proposed updating and stricter application of Law 66-59 which pertains
to statistical information circuits should rationalize the preparation and
distribution of statistics in Senegal. This action program will be adapted
in light of the needs of the main users of statistics to be compiled later
this year. Under the Management Development Project, the Bank, together
with other donors, is helping to design training and technical assistance
programs with a view to developing the capacity of tine Statistics
Department.
B.   Production and Private Investment Incentives
B.1 Agriculture
Background
73.       The agricultural sector continues to be a key one in the economy.
It has accounted for some 20 - 25 percent of CDP, and about 35 percent of
exports in recent years. It also employs about 50 percent of the labor
force.  Within the sector, about 60 percent of value-added comes from
crops, 18 percent from livestock, 15 percent from fishing and 7 percent
from forestry products.  Basic foodcrops produced are millet,  sorghum,
rice, maize and cowpeas; groundnuts and cotton are the main cash crops.
Over 90 percent of rural output is produced by small-scale rainfed farm
units, but there is much diversity in farm size,  labor availability.
ownership of agricultural capital, productivity and revenues. The sector
is fairly sensitive to rainfall, which is often erratic, and the long term
growth rate (1970 - 1986) has only-been 0.5 percent with wide fluctuations.
Major factors inhibiting agricultural growth in the past, aside from
climatic  conditions,  were:   (i)   discouragement  of  private  sector
initiative through inadequate incentive policies and over-involvement of
public institutions in productive activites; and (ii) inefficiencies in
public resource use.
74.       The thrust of the ongoing adjustment consists of revitalizing
agriculture to advance further towards food self-sufficiency, to increase
and   diversify   agricultural   production   and   exports   and   increase
productivity.   The strategy consists of:  (i) fostering private sector
initiative through a change in incentive policies and a progressive
withdrawal of Government and public institutions from direct involvement in
production activities; and (ii) achieving greater efficiency of public



- 26 -
resource use through improvements in the quality and management of public
investments, and the streamlining and reform of public sector agencies.
Specifically, the Government's New Agricultural Policy (NPA), which was
supported by SAL II, sought to:   (a) increase cereals production and
privatize internal marketing and import of cereals; (b) expand the
production and rationalize the marketing of groundnuts; (c) decontrol the
supply of agricultural inputs and reduce associated subsidies; (d) redefine
the role and functions of the rural development agencies; and (e)
strengthen the investment planning and management capacity of the Ministry
of Rural Development.
75.       Under SAL II progress on these fronts has been significant.
(a)  The  development  of  domestic  cereals  production  has  been
stimulated by stabilizing the volume of rice imports at the 1984
level and increasing consumer prices of rice to provide domestic
cereals  production  adequate  nominal  protection.   Also,  with
exception of the security stock to be administered by CPSP, the
monopoly of CPSP on rice imports was ended in 1986 and selected
private traders allowed to compete, as agreed.  CPSP is now
considered  to be well managed.  Barriers  and  administrative
controls previously imposed on the internal marketing of cereals
have been lifted, except for the fixed producer price for paddy.
(b) Controls governing the groundnut sector have been reduced and the
Government has withdrawn from seed distribution, except for
maintaining control over the production and quality of foundation
seeds.  Producers are now either storing their own seeds or
buying  it  from  seed producers.  In  addition the  government
subsidies to cover the oil mills' fixed costs have been
eliminated.
(c)  Progress has been made in decontrolling fertilizer imports and
subsidies were reduced in accordance with the agreed timetable.
(d) The Government scaled down the activities of the rural
development agencies and the contr.ctual agreements ("lettres de
mission") have been updated for SAED (RDA for the Development of
the Senegal River Valley), SOMIVAC and SODAGRI (the agencies for
irrigation development in the Casamance region), and SODEFITEX
(the cotton development agency).
76.       Under SAL III, the program will include:   (i) consolidating/
completing the agricultural reforms already achieved or ongoing; and (ii)
formulating new policies and actions in pricing and incentives for cereals
and    groundnuts,   agricultural   credit,    fertilizer    distribution,
diversification and export promotion, livestock, and land tenure in the
Senegal River Valley.



- 27 -
Pricing and Incentive Policies
77.       Cereals Policy.  The Government will continue to implement the
strategy for the development of domestic cereals production it set out in
the Cereals Plan (June 1986).  It consists of:  (i) stimulating the demand
for coarse grains by setting the consumer price of rice at a level which
would provide enough of a differential in favor of comparable products
based on local cereals; and (ii) encouraging production of cereals through
liberalized marketing (lifting of barriers and administrative controls
previously imposed on the internal marketing of cereals), developing
improved farming systems in conjunction with Improvements in industrial
transformation/processing technologies, and intervening selectively to
support producer floor prices.
78.       The  consumer  price  of  rice will be  maintained  at  a  level
providing producers of unprocessed local cereals (except paddy) with
adequate incentives.   A price of  160 CFAF per kg was established in
February 1985 based on existing analysis of production costs and on public
finance considerations.  It will be reviewed and eventually adjusted in
light of the recommendations of the agricultural prices and incentives
study mentioned below (para. 80). The principle of protecting farmers
against wide price fluctuations for local cereals through a system of floor
prices, supported through modest market intervention of the Food Security
Commission (CSA), will be maintained for the time being. However, the role
and functioning of CSA is being reviewed with external assistance to ensure
that its interventions in cereals markets are cost effective and do not
hamper the development of private trade in local cereals. The results of
an ongoing financial audit of CSA were recently made available to the
Association. The Government in consultation with the Association will
adopt a plan of action for CSA's activities to be operational in April 1988
before  the  1988/89  agricultural  campaign.   To  further  increase  the
competitiveness   of  locally  produced   cereals   in   consumable   form
(particularly millet), and as foreseen in the June 1986 Cereals Plan, five
privately managed small-scale transformation/processing units, partly
financed by external donors, have been installed in the groundnut basin.
The performance of these units will be reviewed before the end of 1987 and
if the results are positive, 20-30 additional processing units will he
installed over the following three years.  In addition a small 500 ton
millet processing operation will be launched by Government in April 1987,
supported by a subsidy financed out of counterpart funds.
79.       To  facilitate  inter-regional  trade  and  year-round  storage
decisions by the private sector, and to let producers know what prices are
applicable in different locations, the Government will establish a price
information system by July 1987.
80.       Finally, an agricultural prices and incentives study is being
conducted by foreign consultants. The principal objectives of this study
are: to review the Government's stated goals and price policy Instruments
in agriculture; to assess Senegal's comparative advantage for principal
commodity groups, including substitute crops to groundnuts (para. 84); to



- 28 -
assess the economic effects of price and marketing intervention; and, to
analyze alternative policy scenarios and their implication for reforms.
The study should allow the Government to determine the relative prices of
various cereals and cereal-based products and help decide whether the price
of groundnuts should be the basis on which other agricultural prices are
decided.  The results of this study, to be available in August 1987 will
lead to the preparation of an action plan before end-October 1987 (second
tranche condition).  The plan will be implemented for the 1987-88 campaign
(third tranche condition).
81.       Groundnut.   The thrust of the Government's  strategy for the
development of groundnut production remains as announced under SAL II.
However, in view of the sharp decline in the world market price of
groundnut oil and limited prospects for improvement, the Government is
keenly aware of the need to reduce costs in the subsector while maintaining
enough incentives for producers. Producer prices will be maintained at
their present nominal level for the next harvest but wlll be adjusted
thereafter in light of world market conditions for edible oils and
financial constraints; to this effect, the Government has established a
Groundnut Guarantee Fund, to be financed primarily through STABEK funds of
the European Community (one of the instruments of ACP-EEC cooperation
established under the 1984 Lome Convention, and aimed at establishing
export earnings from agricultural commodities) as well as producers' and
oil mills' contributions. The Government has firmly established that this
Fund would be financed without recourse to the Budget, which will make
adjustment of producer prices to world market conditions unavoidable
over time. AB there appears to be substantial room for increasing the
efficiency of primary marketing of groundnuts and processing of oil,
SONACOS, the groundnut oil processing company, will carry out a study on
how to reduce marketing costs further, after the first liberalization
measures implemented under SAL II. which had a limited impact only. The
results of this study will be made available to the Association before
December 31, 1987 and implemented for the 1988 Campaign. In addition, the
Government will have a technical, financial, and management audit of
SONACOS carried out by consultants to identify ways to reduce processing
costs. Based on the findings of the audit, SONACOS will prepare a program
to: (i) restructure its industrial facilities to increase productivity;
(ii) devote part of its facilities to new products; and (iii) attract
private capital to reduce the share of the State. A plan of action to this
effect will be prepared between SOHACOS and the Government and presented to
the Association before March 31, 1988 (third tranche condition).
Agricultural Credit Policy
82.       The Government's objective is to build a sustainable agricultural
credit system that avoids the dangers of past debt forgiveness.  The
following principles would guide its policies in this area:   (i) any
financial intermediary will, without restriction, be allowed to provide
agricultural credit; (ii) interest rates for agricultural credit provided
by public agencies will be set at a level that allows the financial
viability of these agencies in the framework of present regulations; (iii)



- 29 -
loans have to be repaid on the terms and conditions under which they were
contracted; (iv) group lending and group solidarity will be favored to
reduce the risk of non-repayment; (v) a program of incentives for financial
institutions will be prepared to help develop financial services in rural
areas and to stimulate rural savings mobilization; and (vi) granting of
agricultural credit will be based on a technical and financial evaluation
of enterprises or projects for which the credit is requested. To bring
about greater effectiveness in the agricultural credit system, a special
government committee will carry out, in the first half of 1987, a
comparative study of the different ongoing agricultural credit programs.
If the analyses show that interest rates for public agricultural credit do
not allow the agency in charge to break even, that is as a minimua to cover
the costs of their financial resources, administrative costs, and
provisions for risk against defaults, the Government will exchange views
with the Association on the level of agricultural interest rate acceptable
within the framework of present laws and regulations, measures to reduce
non-repayments and administrative costs, and possibly the need to establish
a risk guarantee mechanism (guarantee fund or mutual fund). These analyses
would be ready by July 31, 1987 at the latest.
83.       Fertilizer Policy.  The Government's objective to progressively
decontrol fertilizer marketing channels and to eliminate subsidies remains
unchanged and the following principles would continue to guide its
fertilizer policy over the next three years:   (i) subsidies  (on both
Imported and domestically produced fertilizers) required to ensure an
increase in fertilizer consumption would not be financed through resources
of the Treasury; (ii) subsidies financed directly by the donors would be 16
FCFA/kg in 1987/88, 8 FCFA in 1988/89 and eliminated thereafter; (iii)
marketing would be gradually transferred to cooperatives and the private
sector in parallel with the disengagement of the Rural Development
Agencies; (iv) complete liberalization of fertilizer imports will be
achieved by 1989-90, in the meantime compound fertilizers will be produced
by ICS; and (v) in the medium term the Government will maintain a
pan-territorial price for each type of fertilizer, through a compensation
mechanism for transport costs, until conditions are met for differentiating
prices according to market location.
Agricultural Diversification and Export Promotion
84.       To reduce the country's dependence on groundnuts while at the
same time opening up new possibilities for production and export of new
agritultural commodities, the Government is actively pursuing agricultural
diversification  options.   The  thrust  of  this  effort by  region  and
commodities is as follows: (a) Senegal Valley - develop crops that have a
higher value added than rice;  (b) horticultural areas - attain higher
yields through better seed material; (c) groundnut basin - develop edible
groundnuts; (d) north of groundnut basin - develop drought tolerant legumes
such as cowpeas; and (e) south of groundnut basin - accelerate the
expansion of corn. With respect to the Senegal Valley, the Government will
launch before June 30, 1987, a review of the area potential in cooperation
with interested agricultural produce marketing firms; a plan of actions



- 30 -
based on the study will be completed before end-1987. With respect to
horticultural areas, the Government has launched a study, financed by
donors which will be the basis for a plan of actions also to be completed
before end-1987. Concerning the groundnut basin and surrounding areas, the
Government will  ensure  that  the research program of ISRA covers all
relevant issues.
Livestock Policy
85.       The Government, in a document presented to the interministerial
council in January 1987, has developed the outline of a livestock sector
strategy, and a plan of action to stimulate livestock production will be
ready by June 30, 1987 and made effective before the end of the year. The
main elements of the new livestock policy are: (i) liberalization of meat
prices; (ii) review of meat protection in the framework of the study on
import duties; (iii) incentives to accelerate the formation of livestock
producer groups; (iv) strengthening of livestock support services; (v)
elimination of SERAS' marketing monopoly of hides and skins before December
31, 1987; (vi) restructuring of SODESP before October 31, 1987; and (vii)
cost recovery for government livestock vaccination campaigns.
Land Tenure Policy in the Senegal River Valley
86.       The development of the large (about 250,000 ha of which 20,000 ha
are presently irrigated) potential for irrigation agriculture in the
Senegal river valley raises comple- problems, such as the need to mobilize
resources from the domestic and foreign private sector to meet high
investment costs and accelerate development, and, at the same time, protect
the right of small farmers and avoid the emergence of absentee landowners.
The Government has therefore set up a special working group to adjust the
regulations governing land allocation within the framework of the basic
land tenure laws of 1964. and 1972 which vested the ownership of the land
into the national community. All land will henceforth be allocated by the
rural communities,  local representative bodies which are part of the
country's administrative system; however, the Government would be empowered
to retain tracts of land declared of public interest and lease them for
development. Regulations will also be prepared concerning the settlement
of outsiders on rural communities' land; the conditions for the creation of
agrobusinAsses; the application of development rules and criteria to ensure
the optimum utilization of land; the modalities for cost recovery
applicable to certain infrastructures; and the information of rural
population in land tenure matters.  Finally, the Government intends to
complete a cadaster of the valley in coordination with the preparation of
the Master Plan of the Valley.
B.2 Industry, Trade and Labor
Background
87.       The Senegalese industrial sector accounts for 25 percent of GDP
and employs 40,000 workers (20 percent of formal sector employment). It is



- 31 -
composed of about 300 enterprises, most of which are privately owned and
are located in Dakar and the surrounding areas. Within manufacturing, the
agro-industrial subsector is the most important, accounting for about half
of industrial value-added and employment, and includes the traditional
export-oriented groundnut and fish processing industries as well as the
import-substituting  sugar industry.   Next come the chemical industries
which account for about 15 percent of industrial value added and employment
and the textile industry, based on local cotton, representing 15 percent of
value added and 10 percent of employment.   Other industries in Senegal
operate in the metal, mechanical (e.g., naval industries), paper (printing,
packaging), and construction materials (e.g., cement) subsectors.
88.       The Senegalese industrial sector is one of the most advanced in
the region, but its performance since independence has been disappointing.
Manufacturing growth averaged 0.8 percent (over the 1970-82 period), as
compared to 3.4 percent in Ivory Coast, and 9 percent in Kenya. The sector
is characterized by a low degree of integration. Outside of groundnuts,
phosphates, fish, and textiles most Senegalese enterprises process imported
intermediate products, and the bulk of exports are accounted for by
traditional resources. Foreign ownership still dominates, and the sector
remains highly concentrated (the largest 140 enterprises accounting for
about 95 percent of manufacturing production). Financial performance of
industrial  enterprises  has  also  been  dismal  (3  percent  average
profitability over the 1980-84 period). Capacity utilization of existing
equipment is low, averaging about 60 percent industry-wide, and many
enterprises are heavily indebted, particularly in the chemical and textile
subsectors.
Sector Issues
89.       Exogenous Factors.  A first reason for this sluggish performance
was the sudden decline after independence in the size of the market for
Senegalese industries.  The Senegalese industry, which prior to indepen-
dence catered to the needs of the entire former French West Africa
(population of 29 million), concentrated afterwards on the much smaller
Senegalese market (3 million at the time, about 6.8 million today) and
adjacent subsaharan countries. The limited resource base also discouraged
diversification of Senegalese industries beyond traditional export-oriented
activities. The drop in international prices for groundnut and phosphate
prodVcts  contained  the  development  of  there  industries.   Finally,
successive droughts affected the development of agro-indudtries and limited
the demand for manufactured products.
90.       Factor Cost.  The high cost of Senegalese inputs as well as the
high level of domestic prices and wages relative to world levels contribute
to the industry's inability to reach for new external markets. The low
productivity of labor and its relatively high real unit cost further
undermines the price competitiveness of Senegalese products. High energy
costs also  increase manufacturing  costs  (para. 88).   Obsolescence  of
industrial equipment also contributes to excessive cost (55 percent of



- 32 -
existing plants were set up prior to 1970 and only a few have been
modernized).
91.       Government  Policies.   These  issues  were  compounded  by,  and
sometimes even resulted from a set of inefficient, costly and conflicting
incentive policies developed by the Government starting in the early 1960s
in the areas of protection, export promotion and regulatory framework.
92.       The Government established high tariff barriers in the early
1960s. The tariff structure was also such (lower tariffs on intermediate
goods, higher ones on final goods) that it effectively discouraged the
production  of  intermediate  products,  encouraging  instead  imports  of
industrial inputs for the manufacturing of finished products. These high
nominal tariffs were supplemented by quantitative restrictions in the form
of prohibitions, import quotas, reference prices, and a system of prior
authorization. This heavy protection system resulted in wide differences
in the levels of effective protection (negative for some industries, and
over 100 percent for others), and promoted the development of inefficient
industries, subsequently unable to reach foreign markets or compete with
Imports on an even basis due to excessively high cost of production. Since
1960, the Government has also granted specific benefits to individual
enterprises negotiated in an ad hoc manner ("conventions sp$ciales"). This
pnctice, which  has  benefitted  over  20  industrial  enterprises,  had
pervasive and distortionary effects on the development of the sector. In
effect, each enterprise negotiated its own protection system, which
resulted in an intractable system of disparate benefits, led to inefficient
intersectoral allocation and intense lobbying for continuation of
previously granted advantages.
93.       Export promotion schemes, developed in the 1970s, failed to bring
about expected benefits:
(1) the Export Processing Zone (EPZ), set up in 1976, was hindered by
excessive bureaucracy, by the same cumbersome labor regulations
as those constraining other Senegalese enterprises, and by high
energy  costs.   Only  a few  enterprises  operate  in  the  EPZ,
utilizing P small part of the 650 hectare area Initially
developed;
(ii)  the Export Subsidy Scheme, which was introduced in 1980, partly
compensated for the high level of domestic prices and wages
relative to world levels, providing a bonnana for traditional
export oriented resource based industries (fish and phosphates,
each absorbing about 40 percent of the total subsidy in 1985).
It did not, however, provide sufficient incentive to other
industries (e.g., textiles) which continued to cater primarily to
the heavily protected domestic market; and
(iii) numerous industrial and export promotion institutions were set up
by the Government In the 1970s (SONEPI - industrial promotion,
ASACE - export insurance, AFINACE - export credit, CSCE - Senegal



- 33 -
Center for External Trade, SOPIDAK - International Dakar Fair),
but these had little impact on industrial development despite
subsidies and support by external donors. This low performance
was  on  account  of  poorly  defined  objectives,   excesslve
administration, and insufficient interface with the private
sector.
94.       Bureaucratic   constraints   and   an   inefficient   regulatory
environment have further dampened private sector development. Enterprise
creation is subject to lengthy delays, cumbersome formalities and numerous
authorizations. Stringent labor laws have resulted in rigidity of labor
movement and considerable Government involvement in specific labor
decisions. Many enterprises have found it virtually impossible to adapt
their staffing level to operating requirements.  Procedural delays have
hampered external trade, with permits being needed for both exporters and
importers. Import tax exemptions are granted for exporters, but delays and
red tape have been experienced by enterprises seeking reimbursement of
import taxes paid (drawback system). Price control policies have further
constrained industrialists, and regulations governing internal trade have
reduced competition and increased cost to consumers.
95.       Banking System.  The progressive deterioration of the banking
system has made it increasingly difficult for industrial enterprises to
finance their working capital needs and investment programs. Financial
sector issues (and actions under SAL III) are discussed in paras. 103-109.
The Adjustment Process
96.       Industrial Reforms under SAL IT.  A comprehensive program of
reforms aimed at improving the competitiveness of industrial enterprises
and hence their ability to reach external markets was undertaken under SAL
II.
i)  Protection System.  With a view to harmonizing tariff protection
and abolishing exception regimes, the Government:   (a) revised
the tariff to reduce the nominal level of duties and narrowed the
tariff band to avoid discrimination against intermediate inputs;
(b)  froze  the  list  of  products  subject  to  quantitative
restrictions and agreed on a calendar to remove quantitative
restrictions over an 18-month period, ending January 1st, 1988.
Quantitative restrictions have now been removed in four major
subsectors   (metal,   packaging,   construction  material,   and
agro-industries); and (c) renounced the practice of entering into
special conventions with enterprises and hired independent
foreign consultants to examine existing conventions and lay the
basis for their subsequent review.
(ii)  Export  promotion.   To  improve  the  effectiveness  of  export
promotion instruments, the Government has streamlined the duty
drawback system to reduce delays in reinbursement of import
duties paid by exporters, and modified the principle of the



- 34 -
export subsidy scheme to bare the subsidy on value added rather
than FOB value.
(iII)  Business Regulations.  The Government has undertaken to simplify
the regulatory environment for private enterprises as follows:
(a) measures will be effective in June 1987 to improve labor
regulations In areas of hiring, firing, and temporary work
contracts (condition of effectiveness of SAL 1II); (b) studies
have been undertaken to prepare recommendations for linking
worker  compensation  with  productivity,   including  possible
adjustments  to  be  made  in  the  regulatory  framework;  (c)
procedures for granting of importer/exporter cards have been
simplified; and (d) pricing controls for manufactured goods are
being eliminated, in step with the removal of quantitative
restrictions   and   the   liberalization   of   internal   trade
(para. 101).
The Proposed Program for SAL III
97.       The  Industrial  measures  initiated  under  SAL II  started  the
process of rationalization of the sector, and the Government has shown a
strong commitment to the program and to meeting its specific targets.
Under SAL III, this effort would be broadened by further rationalizing the
protection system and generalizing the common regime to all lndustries,
(i.e. eliminating special exemptions and benefits), simplifying the
regulatory framework, and initiating a series of measures to develop
Industrial exports.
Protection System
98.       Tariff.  To build on Government's commitment under SAL II to
generalize the common regime, measures under SAL III would be aimed at
gradually eliminating disparities in the protection system resulting from
various regimes of exception:
Ci)  Reference Prices ("Valeurs Mercuriales").  Initially introduced
to counter underinvoicing and dumping practicc; , these reference
prices are currently used as an additional protective device.
The Government has prepared a study to review the scope of
existing reference prices and recomend their elimination except
in cases where underinvoicing or dumping practice are commonly
observed. On the basis of this study, specifi-: reforms will be
agreed upon with the Association prior to September 1987, as a
condition of second tranche release.
(ii)  Product Specific Exceptions to the General Tariff ("Codes de
Pr&cisions"). Product-specific exceptions currently provided in
annexes to the general tariff schedule will be phased out before
1989. Intermediate steps to that end will be discussed with the
Government in December 1987 on the basis of a study to be
completed by September 1987. The presentation to the National



- 35 -
Assemibly of the revised schedule of Product Specific Exceptions
will be a condition of third tranche release.
(iii)  Special  conventions.   Consultants  are  currently  analyzing
existing conventions with selected enterprises (para. 92). On
the basis of this study, a program of follow-up actions,
including the review of specific conventions, will be prepared by
the Government in agreement with the Association, with a view to
rtnegotiate or to eliminate over time these exceptions to the
common  regime.   This  action program  should be  finalized by
September 1987. Preliminary findings of the study on conventions
indicate in particular that the cost of CSS ("Compagnie Sucriere
du Senegal") has become exceedingly high for the State and the
consumers and that the convention has not been conducive to
efficiency improvements for CSS. In the course of negotiations,
the Government has agreed to review the CSS convention as
follows:  (a) direct operating subsidies ("perequation") of the
budget to CSS will be ended by November 1987; (b) CSS will be
required  to  implement  a  cost  reduction  program;  (c)  the
Government will not provide further guarantee on borrowings by
CSS; and (d) financial and technical audits of CSS (and of its
affiliated  companies)  will  be  undertaken  by  independent
consultants prior to December 1987, and an action program on the
basis  of  these  audits will  be  implemented  by  CSS.   These
commitments are inrluded in a side letter to the Development
Credit Agreement. Agreement on the action plan for review of
existing conventions, and satisfactory progress in implementation
of actions on CSS outlined above will be a condition of second
tranche release.
99.       Investment Code Benefits.  The Investment Code will be revised
to: (i) eliminate the current bias towards capital intensity; (ii)
introduce a system of rcridly declining benefits with a view to inducing
efficiency as enterprises develop; and (iii) set clear and eutomatic
criteria for eligibility to the benefits of tne Code.  A revised Code
reflecting these principles is to be prepared by May 1987 and presented to
the National Assembly for approval thereafter (second tranche condition).
Procedures to grant Investment Code benefits will also be streamlined. To
this end, a unit will be set up within the Ministry of Finance ("Guichet
Unique") to screen and approve benefit requests, in replacement of the
previous 22 member inter-ministerial commission. Its operating procedures
will be defined by July 1987.
Simplification of the Regulatory Framework
100.      Labor.  A decree to enable enterprises to hire employees without
State interference (direct recruitment or through private or public
placement offices) and to renew temporary contracts should be enacted in
June 1987. In addition, labor studies by consultants were initiated under
SAL II towards: (i) developing new incentives schemes to link renumeration
and productivity; (ii) revising the system of employer's contributions to
the Social Security System so as to encourage job creation; and (iii)



- 36 -
designing schemes for participation of worker in capital ownership and
profit sharing.  Action plans on the basis of these studies will be adopted
by the Government as a condition of third tranche release.
101.      Trade.  The procedures for granting exporter/importer cards will
be considerably simplified 10/, and the more cumbersome administrative
constraints on the distribution of industrial products will be eliminated
(e.g., the statutory distinction between wholesalers and retailers will be
ended, industrialists will be allowed to sell directly to retailers and to
set up their own marketing channels).   The relevant decrees have been
recently enacted.
Export Promotion
102.      To assist industrial enterprises in competing on export markets,
the following measures aimed at strengthening industrial exports would be
undertaken:
(i) Export Insurance. A restructuring study of the export insurance
agency (ASACE) has been undertaken by consultants (February 1987)
to:   (a) assess  the  needs  for  export  credit  insurance;
(b) propose measures to increase operating efficiency of this
institution; and (c) identify potential private sector interest
in such activity. A program of restructuring actions, to be
agreed with IDA, will be adopted by tne Government by September
1987.
(ii)  Senegalese Center for External Trade.  The structure of the
Senegalese Center for External Trade (CICES) will be reviewed,
and an action plan adopted, in agreement with IDA, to strengthen
that Institution and increase private sector involvement in its
activities (by September 1987).
(iii)  Export Subsidy and Duty Drawback System:  The revised systems of
export subsidy and duty drawback are now in operation.   The
Government w4ll (as a condition of second tranche release) review
with the Association the experience with these systems, and as
needed take corrective measures to improve their effectiveness
(e.g., adjustment in the level of export subsidy, further
streamlining of the duty drawback procedure).
(iv)  Export Procedures.. The Ministry of Conmerce will prepare, by
November 1987, an action plan to streamline export procedures in
order to foster the development of industrial exports. This plan
will be devised on the basis of round tables currently underway
10/ These cards grant the status of importer/exporter for a period of five
years, renewable.



- 37 -
between Customs, the Ministry of Commerce, commercial banks and
private operators.
(v)  Quality control and standardization.  To improve the penetration
of Senegalese products on foreign markets, the Government will
review, by October 1987, the current functions of the various
ministries involved in quality control and standardization (Rural
Development,  Commerce,  Industry),  with  a  view  to  better
delineating their roles.
C.   Financial Intermediation
Background
103.      The  Senegalese  financial  system,  comprising  15 banks  and  5
financial institutions, has been characterized Jy: (i) an excessive growth
of credits to the economy without a correspoading increase in the level of
resources; (ii) a rapid deterioration of the banks' portfolios linked to
arrears particularly in the public sector and non-performing loans; and
(iii) low profitability due to the high cost of resources and excessive
operating  costs.   These  problems  have  particularly  affected  the  two
principal development banks, BUDS (Banque Nationale de D6veloppement du
Senegal - 73 percent public) and USB (Union Senegalaise de Banques - 63
percent public) and smaller privately-owned banks such as BCS (Banque
Commerciale du Senegal). BNDS and USB together account for over 50 percent
of total outstanding credits and 70 percent of non-performlng loans of the
banking system.  They are heavily illiquid and depend on Central Bank
refinancing well in excess of their rediscount ceilings.
104.      The non-performing assets of these banks comprise credits to
agriculture (ONCAD debt), loans made to loss-making enterprises, mostly
public with the guarantee of the Government, and unpaid personal loans.
The crisis of development banks is not particular to Senegal; it is
pervasive in the West African Monetary Union (UNOA). It can be attributed
to: (i) excessive interference of Governments in using development banks
for financing lll-conceived agricultural credit schemes and industrial and
other  investments  with  little  regard  for  their  viability  or  the
profitability of the banks; (ii) poor management and lack of financial
discipline of the banks and absence of supervision by the banks' 't-J-;
and (iii) insufficient control over credit expansion and observance of
banking regulations by the Central Bank (BCEAO) which, in particular, has
allowed banks to exceed limits on rediscounting without imposing sanctlons
on further refinancing. The situation of BNDS is particularly serious with
non-performing assets estimated at a total of some CFAF 70 billion
(compared to a capital of CFAF 2.4 billion) and exceedingly high recourse
to rediscounting by the Central Bank, totalling some CFAF 76 bill!on.
105.      Beyond the crisis situation of these banks, cther factors which
hinder efficient domestic resource mobilization and financial interme-
diation in Senegal include under-capitalization of banks, inappropriate
interest rate and taxation policies, inefficient credit allocation and



- 38 -
rediscounting regulations, underdeveloped money and capital markets and
insufficiently diversified financial instruments.   While most of these
problems concern the Central Bank of the UMOA, some of the policy measures
required are within the purview of Senegal financial authorities.
The Program for SAL II
106.      The   Government   has   determined   that   the   rehabilitation/
restructuring of the three banks in crisis and associated measures to
prevent this situation from re-occuring should be the priority objectives,
as this is a prerequisite to any durable improvement of Senegal's financial
sector and development of financial intermediation. At the same time, the
Government has undertaken to identify and prepare policy measures to
develop financial intermediation.
107.      The Central Bank of the UMOA has taken important decisions in
September 1986, which have paved the way for the rehabilitation of the
banks in crisis in the UMOA countries. As the Governments concerned do not
have the immediate budgetary resources required to honor their guarantees
and restore the liquidity of banks, the BCEAO has agreed to enter into
conventions with Governments and banks for consolidating amounts due to
itself into long-term loans (10-year maturity with 3-year grace) at a
preferential rate, in the framework of agreed rehabilitation programs for
the concerned banks.  Moreover, the BCEAO will participate in the ad hoc
committees to monitor implementation of the rehabilitation programs and has
taken steps to strengthen its control over banks of the Monetary Union.
108.      Specifically, the program for SAL III includes:
(a) The rehabilitation/restructuring of BNDS, USB and BCS. While the
restructuring of USB has started with the participation of a
French  bank   (Credit  Lyonnais)  and  is  proceeding  vell,
considerable efforts have been made by the Ministry of Finance to
prepare rehabilitation plans for BNDS and BCS in the past few
months, including detailed audits of the portfolio and accounts
of these institutions.  The draft ENDS plan calls for:   Ci)
institutional and managerial strengthening; (ii) rescheduling of
BNDS' debt to BCEAO and agreement on a repayment schedule for
State  guarantees  on  BNDS'  inactive  portfolio;  and  (iii)
introduction of a private partner in BNDS' equity in order to
ensure sound management in the future.  The Gcvernment would only
keep 51 percent of BNDS' capital base. This program will be
finalized after review by all concerned parties, including the
Association, before June 30, 1987. Satisfactory progress in its
implementation will be a condition of second tranche release.
Similarly, the monetary authorities would approve the BCS
rehabilitation program prior to June 1987, after consultation
with the Association.



- 39 -
(b)  Supervision over banking activities.  The Ministry of Finance
will take sLaps to strengthen its supervision over banks and will
seek  increased  control  on  banks  by  BCEAO.   In  particular,
measures will be taken (prior to June 30, 1987) to reinforce the
control of primary banks by the Banking Control Commission,
including more frequent and detailed reporting on the banks'
activities. The Banking Association ("Association Professionelle
des Banques", APB) has been recently reactivated and is currently
revising its statutes. The Government has agreed to recognize
APB  as  official  interlocutor  representing  primary  banks  on
banking and financial policies, to he:p enhance the independence
of primary banks from State interference, and to represent common
interests of the banks in such areas as seasonal credits
("Cr4dits de Campagne"), legislative support for loan recovery,
information on debtors, etc.). Finally, the Ministry of Finance
has agreed to reinforce its capabilities to organize the banking
system through training programs to enhance the effectiveness of
the staff involved, and computerization of its services.
(c)  Financial  policy  measures.    The  Government  has  selected
consultants to review the operations of the banking system, and
identify measures to increase domestic resource mobilization and
improve  financial  intermediation,  such  as  new  financial
instruments (housing savings accounts, money market papers,
capital market and mutual funds, treasury bonds), removal of
fiscal disincentives. changes in regulations governing interest
rates, credit allocation, interbank money market etc. The draft
study has been completed in April 1987 and its recommendations
are being reviewed by the authorities and the Association with a
view to adopt its recommendations prior to December 1987. In the
meantime, the Government has already decided: (i) to lmmediately
reduce the tax on interest on savings (TPS), from 17 to 7
percent; (ii) to envisage a parallel reduction of the TPS on
debit interest on the basis of a study of the fiscal impact of
the reform, to be concluded before June 1988; (iiI) to increase
the minimum capital requirements to set up and operate a bank
from CFAF 250 million to above CFAF 1 billion (second tranche
condition); and (iii) to enforce (with immediate effect) the
existing capital, reserves to assets, and liquidity ratios and
systematically impose the penalties for infraction to these
requirements, which are stipulated in the banking law.
109.      Finally, the progressive settlement of Government arrears to
enterprises (para. 67) under the INF program will gradually reestablish the
liquidity of the economy and, :In turn, improve the situation of banks. The
ONCAD debt is being steadily repaid by the Government in accordance with
the agreed schedule.   Other debts  to banks, which mostly  consist of
unhonored Government guarantees, will be addressed in the framework of
individual banks' rehabilitation programs which will provide for
consolidation of debts to BCEAO into long-term loans associated with
Government immediate contributions (para. 108-a).



- 40 -
PART III - SOCIAL ASPECTS
A.   Social Dimension of Adjustment
110.      The structural adjustment strategy outlined by the Government is
expected to lead to annual increases in per capita CDP of the order of 0.5
percent per annum in the next several years. This would be accompanied by
a major shift of income in favor of rural communities, thereby narrowing
the marked differences between average urban and rural incomes. Income
maldistribution has been the major cause of substantial rural-urban
migration in the past, contributing to the high level of unemployment in
the main urban centers.   In the next several years, with agriculture
expected to play an important role as a major source of growth, farmers'
real income will benefit not only from output growth but also from producer
price support policies, improved provision of agricultural credit and the
liberalization of marketing and processing operations.
111.      By contrast, urban incomes are expected to decrease somewhat in
the early years of structural adjustment, as wage increaset will be
contained, especially in the public sector which represents over half of
the formal employment market. In addition, the reform of the para-public
sector as well as the reform of tariffs and the gradual elimination of
quantitative restrictions could, in the initial period, have a negative
impact on urban employment. In the longer term, the improved economic
environment is expected to foster private sector activities, leading to
greater employment creation. Finally, it is also worth mentioning that as
a result of the proposed tax reform, progress in reducing tax evasion and
broadening the tax base will go a long way to permit a reduction in the tax
burden on lower income groups through the reduction of tax rates at the
lower end of the income scale.
112.      While the proposed adjustment program focuses primarily on the
directly productive sectors, other Bank activities together with the active
involvement of other donors, more particularly the NGOs, have reinforced
the Government's efforts to improve basic services to the population in
spite of the adverse impact of budget cuts. For example, in the context of
the on-going policy dialogue in the education sector, the Bank's Primary
Education Development Project will aim at correcting the unequal
distribution of educational oppo:tunity by increasing primary school
enrollments by over 30 percent between now and the early 19909 while
containing education expenditures on post-primary education. This benefit
is expected to accrue primarily to children living in rural areas who
constitute over 60 percent of all primary school-age children.  In the
health sector, the Government three-year public investment prc;ram for
1987/90 has highlighted the priority needs for preventive and primary
health care, nutrition and the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
facilities at the expense of large hospital facilities. These needs are
being partly met by the on-going Rural Health Project. A second Population
and Health Project, which would further strengthen the delivery of primary
health and family planning services, is also under preparation.



- 41 -
113.      To minimize the adverse impact of the new environment created by
the adjustment process on specific groups, care will be taken, in the
program, to provide transitional arrangements to facilitate their re-entry
to gainful employment. Under the Irrigation TA Project, a small fund with
contributions from the Bank and the Government and operated by a local bank
was created to extend credit to laid-off agricultural ewtension workers who
decide to set up their own businessea and finance training programs. Under
SAL III. a unique reinsertion fund will be established to ease the
transition of laid-off workers in the parapublic and industrial sectors and
stimulate  -3luntary  resignation  from  the  civil  service.   A  special
ministerial committee is preparing the institutional setting and mechanisms
of this Fund and the Government has committed itself to allocate to it a
minimum of US$5 million equivalent out of its budget. Effective operation
of the Fund is a condition of second tranche release.   The proposed
Industrial Sector Restructuring Project itself will consist, in addition to
fast disbursing funds to help refinance training programs, of a line of
credit to help industries adjust to the new environment, and technical
assistance to strengthen industrial support institutions.
114.      The Employment and Development Department of ILO is currently
assisting in the creation of small-scale enterprises for those made
redundant from the public sector. ILO's assistance covers credit, training
and identification of new growth sectors.  USAID is also providing $2
million in separation payments for retrenched workers to establish small
enterprises. Discussions are going on between the Bank and NGOs for their
closer collaboration on structural adjustment programs. One suggestion is
for NGOs to organize village communities or neighborhood associations to
function  as  non-profit  economic  development  oriented  groups.   These
organizations would form the basis for a community-based credit scheme
eligible for borrowing from the traditional banking sector. In this way,
the private sector at the grassroot level could be invigorated by the
infusion of credit. The Bank would make the initial funds available to be
channeled to community groups through the banking sector.
115.      The last household survey was conducted in Senegal in 1960.  As
in most countries of Sub-Saharan Africa, the very limited availability of
reliable data on income distribution and welfare indicators and the
relative weakness of institutions. in charge of statistics and macroeconomic
management make it particularly difficult to assess the social implications
of structural adjustment. Thcre is also insufficient basis to identify and
design operational progrems and projects aimed at alleviating the
transitional adverse impact of structural adjustment on vuluerable groups
and at fostering the participation of the poor in the process of economic
growth  over the longer term.  We have thus undertaken  to prepare a
multi-country umbrella project financed by UNDP to:   (i) develop and
maintain data on income distribution and consumption levels; (ii) study the
socio-economic implications of structural adjustment; (iii) identify
compensatory programs; and (iv) strengthen the institutional capacity of
participating governments to generate data and identify compensatory
programs.  In each participating country, the project will consist of



- 42 -
implementing a permanent household survey system, developing and annually
updating social accounting matrices, analyzing the pattern and evolution of
socio-economic conditions under structural adjustment and carrying out the
identification, appraisal and evaluation of programs and projects aimed at
alleviating poverty in the context of future structural adjustment
programs. The Senegalese Government has expressed its wish of including
Senegal in this project as part of the program for SAL III.
B.   Population Policy
116.      While  the  Government  is becoming  increasingly  aware of  the
implications of rapid population growth and has supported the provision of
family planning, it has yet to articulate a well-defined and comprehensive
policy. According to the Population Sector Report issued last November,
Senegal's population was estimated at 6.6 million in mid-1985; including a
net annual (international) migration rate of 0.2 percent, population growth
is currently estimated at 3.2 percent. Even assuming a moderate decline in
the fertility rate, Senegal's population will most probably double in the
next 30 years. Not only would this trend result in enormous growth in the
demand for basic needs, basic physical infrastructure and social services,
it would also severely hamper the Government's objectives of raising the
standards of living in the country and reducing dependence on imports of
food.
117.      In reaction to these ominous projections, the Government has
decided to increase the role of the National Population Commission
(CONAPOP) of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation which will take the
lead in drafting, in collaboration wit- -' i Bank and other concerned
donors,  a  population  policy  stater          d  action  program  for  its
implementation for presentation to the    acfl of Ministers by March 1988
(Condition  of  third  tranche release).   The  following  items would be
included in this statement:  (i) definition of the population problem; (ii)
establishment of qualitative and quantitative objectives with respect to
fertility, mortality and migration; (iii) description of current population
activities and institutional responsibilities; (iv) formulation of future
strategies,   policy  guidelines,   priority  actions  and  institutional
responsibilities, particularly regarding family planning; and (v) to the
extent possible, presentation of draft investment and expenditure programs
linked to these action plans.  Funds available under the Rural Health
Project (Credit No. 1310-SE) would be used to finance part of the above
activities and the Bank has recently prepared a draft population sector
report which will assist the Government in formulating its program. The
preparation of a follow-up Health and Population Project will also be
accelerated.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS
A. Financing
118.      It  is proposed  that the  Government's  adjustment program  be
supported by an IDA Credit of US$45.0 million equivalent, a Special



- 43 -
Facility for Africa (SFA) Credit of US$40.0 million equivalent and a
Special Joint Financing non-reimbursable contribution of US$8 million
equivalent by Switzerland, to be administered by the Association. Because
of the comprehensiveness of the program and the required period of
implementation, it is proposed to disburse the Credits in three tranches.
-    The first tranche of US$33.0 million equivalent, or 35 percent of
the total of the credits and Swiss grant, wouj.d be available on
effectiveness, subject to the condition in para. 124 below.
-    The  second  and  third  tranches,  each  of  US$30.0  million
equivalent, or 32.5 percent of the total, would be released after
the Government has made satisfactory progress in implementing the
program, notably in completing the specific actions described in
para. 125 below.
Based on the timetables proposed by the Government, it is expected that the
first tranche could be released in June 1987, the second tranche in
November or December 1987 and the third tranche in March or April 1988,
implying that the total of both credits could be disbursed over a 13-month
period ending in June 1988. The dates for the second and third trenches.
however, are estimates, not targets. Releases will depend on the actions
cited in para. 125 and satisfactory progress in implementing the whole
program.
119.      In meeting the country's gross external capital requirements, the
proposed credits would be complemented by IMP credits, official grants,
project loans and other non-project financing. Based on firm commitments
of the donors, the remaining gap in external financing requirements for
fiscal years 1987 and 1988 would amount to some US$260 million, or some
US$170 million after deducting the proceeds of the proposed credits.
According to indications given by the donors at the second Consultative
Group meeting in Paris on March 31-April 1st, 1987, including proposed
cofinancing of the Program by some donors (para. 121), there should be no
difficulty in securing the necessary financing in the form of non-project
lending.  Based on the same indications, the projected external capital
requirements of Senegal during the next three years appear to be fully
covered.
120..     With  respect  to  the  longer  term,  the  balance  of  payments
projections under the Adjustment Scenario (Annex V) indicate that the
curThnt account deficit would decline in relation to GDP and that gross
external capital requirements would level out in real terms.  It is not
envisaged nor desirable for Senegal to borrow on commercial terms and debt
rescheduling through the Paris Club should not be needed after 1990
(para. 27).
121.      In  appraising  the  program  to be  supported by  the proposed
credits, IDA staff have consulted extensively with the donor community, in
particular the IMP (para. 130) and those involved in structural adjustment
operations, namely USAID  and  the  French  Caisse  Centrale.   These aid



- 44 -
coordination efforts, through the Consultative Group and other channels
including, primarily, the Bank's Resident Mission in Dakar, have helped in
ensuring consistency and complementarity between the policy contents of the
various structural adjustment type operations supported by the donor
community.   The African Development Bank has officially  indicated its
intention to cofinance the Program and sent a delegation to the Credit
negotiations as observer.   Otber bilateral donors have indicated their
interest in cofinancing the Program.
B.   Monitorable Actions
122.      Detailed action programs and timetables are annexed to the Letter
of Development Policy in Annex IV. While the proposed credits will support
all actions of the Government program, the specific measures described in
the following paragraphs have been agreed with the Government as key
actions needed to achieve the objectives of the second phase of adjustment.
123.      The following important actions, among others, have already been
taken by the Government under the proposed program:
Preparation of draft recommendations to strengthen the role and
effectiveness   of  -ublic  enterprise   Boards   of  Directors
(para. 46);
Approval by the National Assembly of the tax reform and making
effective of the new Tax Code (para. 60);
Preparation of a draft new Custom Code and a program to
computerize customs statements (para. 63);
Auditing of the civil service payroll (para. 65);
Preparation and approval by the Ministry of Finance of an action
plan to improve the generation and quality of national statistics
(para. 71);
Preparation of the terms of reference for a study of agricultural
prices and incentives and the launching of the study (para. 80);
Preparation of Terms of Reference for the operational audit of
SONACOS group (para. 81);
Preparation of a new draft Investment Code (para. 99);
Preparation of a study on custom reference prices (para. 98);
Signing and publication of decrees to simplify access to the
importer/exporter card and liberalize internal trade (para. 101);
and



- 45 -
Presentation of a rehabilitation plan for BNDS to the monetary
authorities (para. 108).
124.      Effectiveness of the Credit would be contingent upon:
(1) Presentation to the Higher Planning Council of the medium-term
action plan to carry out the reform of the planning system
(para. 96); and
(2) Presentation to the National Assembly of the changes needed in
the Labor Code to allow enterprises to: (i) hire labor without
state inference; and (ii) renew temporary contracts (para. 53).
125.      Disbursement of the second and third tranches of the credit would
be contingent upon overall satisfactory progress in implementing the action
programs and in particular upon the following key measures being taken in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Second Tranche
(1)  Government:  (i) to offer for sale all its shares of six public
enterprises; (ii) to offer for sale part of its shares in 4
public enterprises; and (iii) to identify another batch of at
least 10 other public enterprises to be privatized (para. 41);
(2) Government to complete the liquidation of 7 public enterprises
and 2 public establishments (para. 41);
(3)  Preparation of an action program to implement the recommendations
of the study of agricultural prices and incentives (para. 80);
(4)  Start implementation of an action program to change the scope of
application of the system of custom reference prices (pars. 98);
(5)  Preparation  of  an  action  program  to  review  the  special
conventions in effect between the Government and selected
enterprises, and actual renegotiation of the convention with CSS
(para. 98);
(6) Presentation of the revised Investment Code to the National
Assembly (para. 99);
(7) Government to review the operation of the export subsidy system,
to set the level of the export subsidy and to review the
operation of the system of duty drawbacks (para. 102);
(8) Satisfactory progress in implementing the rehabilitation plan of
BNDS in accordance with the program adopted by the monetary
authorities (para. 108);



- 46 -
(9) Government to increase the required minimum capital for bank.
(para. 108); and
(10) Effective operation of the Reinsertion Fund (pars. 113).
Third Tranche
(1)  Government  to  meet  its  financial  obligations  under  the
contract-programs with public enterprises for the first half of
fiscal year 1988 in accordance with the timetable established as
of June 30, 1987 (para. 44);
(2)  Government  to  prepare  a  three-year  1988-89/1990-91  Public
Investment Program which is satisfactory to the Association based
on mutually agreed criteria (para. 54);
(3) Government to satisfy the ceiling on the civil service size to
68,000 persons for fiscal year 1987-88 (para. 65);
(4)  Preparation of provisional national accounts in current prices
for calendar years 1982 through 1986 (para. 71);
(5) Satisfactory implementation of the action program on agricultural
prices and incentives (para. 80);
(6) Preparation on an action program to improve the efficiency of the
SONACOS group on the basis of the operational audit (para. 81);
(7) Presentation to the National Assembly of the July 1988 revision
of the custom tariff, including the "tariffs per destination"
(para. 98);
(8) Adoption of the recommendations resulting from the studies on
employment and the labor market (para. 100); and
(9)  Government to formulate a population policy and specify the
actions for its implementation (para. 117).
C. Management of the Program and Technical Assistance
126.      As for SAL II, the program would be impllemented by the various
government departments and agencies involved in the reform process under
the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation.
The latter reports to an Interministerial Committee which is composed of
the Ministers of Economy and Finance, Rural Development. Commerce,
Industrial Development and Handicrafts, and the Minister of State, and
chaired by the President of the Republic.  This Committee is supported by a
technical body ("Le Comite de Suivi de l'Ajustement Structurel"), which
benefits from UNDP financial assistance and has proved to be very effective
in coordinating and monitoring the preparation and execution of the
Program.  In addition, the Minister of Finance chairs weekly meetings



- 47 -
to monitor execution of the IMF program and the structural adjustment
program in the areas of his jurisdiction and, since September 1986, the
Minister of State chairs monthly meetings to monitor execution of the
pars-public sector reform.   The Resident Mission staff participates  in
these meetings and closely monitors, and assists in the execution of the
program.
127.      Senegal's institutional capacity remains, however, weak.  An IDA
financed Development Management Project is under active preparation to
support implementation of the Program in selected areas (Annex VII).
Appraisal is scheduled for June 1987. The Government is also supported by
IMP, FAO, UNIDO, US and French technical assistance and by the on-going IDA
financed TA II and Parapublic II projects in formulating and implementing
adjustment  measures.   Improving  the  institutional  capacity  of  the
Senegalese Administration has been made a central focus of the Bank's
assistance strategy.  In addition to the proposed Development Management
Project and the on-going TA II, Parapublic II, Education, Telecommunication
and Energy Sector Rehabilitation Projects, we are planning a TA project to
strengthen the Ministry of Rural Development and a Transport Sector Project
with a strong institution building component (Part V).
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
128.      The proceeds of the proposed credite ($93 million equivalent in
total) would be used exclusively for the financing of the foreign exchange
cost of eliglble Imports. Procurement procedures have been designed as in
SAL II to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring efficiency and
economy in the process. Except for a few exclusions such as luxury and
defense items, any Imports would be eligible for financing provided they
were paid for after March 31, 1987 but not more than U$20 million would be
used for petroleum imports and not more than US$20 million for food
imports.  imports by public agencies exceeding US $1 million would be
subject to international competitive bidding.  Imports of goods procured
under contracts costing less than US $10,000 equivalent would not be
financed under the SAL. Imports by private entities as well as imports of
petroleum and food stuffs commonly traded in the international market would
be in accordance with normal commercial practices, which are acceptable.
129.      Because of the different disbursement ; ocedures of IDA and SAP,
two special accounts would be established at tF   untral Bank on behalf of
the Treasury, one each  for the  IDA Credit  i   the SAF Credit.  The
Senegalese Government would be the borrower.  r   Central Bank would be
responsible for maintaining the credit accounts.  After effectiveness, an
initial deposit of US$5 million would be made by IDA and US$5 million by
the SAF into the respective special accounts.  These accounts would be
replenished regularly and up to the limit of the First Tranche on the basis
of fully documented reimbursement applications for amounts in excess of
US$1 million and on the basis of statements of expenditures under that
amount.   The  minima  amount  of  replenishment  applications  would  be
US$1 million.  The Central Bank would maintain all relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, import certificates and evidence of payment) for



- 48 -
review by supervision missions.  Expenditures covered by the IDA credit
would be in accordance with normal IDA rules, while expenditures covered by
the SAF Credit would be in accordance with the resolution establishing the
SAF.
E. Coordination with the IMF
130.      In  preparing  the  proposed  operation,  IDA staff has  closely
coordinated with the IMF.  In early 1985, an 18-month Stand-by arrangement
for SDR 76.6 million was approved, covering the period up to end-June 1986.
The Government met all performance criteria under this arrangement despite
a shortfall in fiscal revenue generation. A further Stand-by of SDR 34
million for a period of 12 months, combined with a three-ear Structural
AdJustment Pacility arrangement of about SDR 40 million1 was approved by
the IMF on November 10, 1986. The Stand-by program includes a number of
provisions and targets for increasing fiscal revenues; ceilings on net
domestic assets and credit to the Government; targets for thr' reduction of
domestic arrears, the repayment of past crop credits to the Central Bank
and further reduction of the ONCAD debt; and, ceilings on external public
and publically guaranteed debt.  Among the array of institutional and
policy reforms included in the Governm.-at' s Structural Adjustment Program
the following specific conditions are retained for the first year of the
Structural  Adjustment  Facility   arrangement:   (i)  formulation  of  an
appropriate action program based on a study for the determination of
agricultural producer prices; (ii) abolition of the CPSP'- rice import
monopoly; (iii) elimination of quantitative restrictions on certain imports
according to the established schedule; and (iv) adaption of the first
three-year "rolling" public investment program. An IMF mid-term review
mission visited Senegal in December 1986 and has been satisfied with the
implementation of the Program. As of end-December all performance criteria
had been met.
F.  Benefits and Risks
131.      Benefits.  The Government's comprehensive structural adjustment
program aims at establishing the conditions for self-sustained growth and
employment creation while restoring internal and external financial
equilibria and creditworthiness.  While this program is not a sufficient
condition for long-tenm development, because of Senegal's poor endowment In
natural resources, it is a necessdry one. Without the proposed reforms the
public finance and current account deficits would reach unsustainable
levels leading to continuing debt rescheduling in the long run, there would
be little prospect for the growth of the economy to exceed the low rate of
the last twenty five years and per capita income would continue to decline.
132.      Risks.  The main risks relating to the program are as follows:
Ci) the weakness of Senegal's institutions may lead to delays in the
preparation of the remaining practical details of the agreed



- 49 -
reforms  and  in  their  implementation.   The  Goverment  is
benefitting, however, from considerable technical assistance for
formulating and implementing its program (para. 127);
(ii)  the  possibility  of weaker  than  expected  response  from  the
domestic and, particularly, foreign private sector to the new
Incentive framework constitutes an important risk. Because of
the uncertain economic prospects in Part I countries in general
and a loss of confidence of investors in Sub-saharan countries,
the foreign investment which is needed to meet the new
opportunities in the manufacturing sector may not be forthcomlng.
This will depend to a large extent on the credibility of the
Government in pursuing difficult reforms;
(iii)  there are also substantial socio-political risks.  In the process
of adjustment, short-term costs are usually felt before most of
the expected benefits become visible.   While the approach of
national elections in February 1988 is a strong incentive for the
Government for quickly implementing difficult reforms, it is also
a good opportunity for various opposition groups and parties to
voice their discontent. This has already begun in recent months.
The Government is also under considerable pressure from interest
groups, such as certain industrialists and the staff of para-
public enterprises, to postpone certain reforms or make
"exceptions" in their implementation; and
(iv)  finally, with the dependence of Senegal's export performance on a
limited number of traditional comnodities and the narrow
dependence of agricultural production on the vagary of the
weather, the climate/external market risks could delay the
rialization of some of the financial and growth targets.
133.      On  balance,  while  there  are  substantial  risks  that  this
comprehensive program may not be fully implemented in the expected
timeframe, there is a high probability that it will be successful on the
whole.
PART V - BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
134.      As of April 30, 1987, the Bank Group has approved 65 operations
in Senegal for a total of US$702.2 million, consisting of 39 IDA credits,
11 Bank loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, seven IFC operations, two
blends of Bank and IUC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds.
Physical execution of projects is progressing reasonably well, although
some operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to
the Government's continuing difficult public finance situation.
135.      Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement
and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the financial crisis
of the past several years and the magnitude of the structural distortions



- 50 -
in the economy has led to a major shift in our strategy, which now has the
following main objectives.  First, to assist the Government,  supported
where  appropriate with  technical  assistance  and  structural  adjustment
lending operations, to improve the production-incentive environment and the
efficiency of economic management, and restore in the medium-term a sound
financial basis for development efforts. Second, to promote the long-term
growth and development of the economy by underpinning the structural
adjustment operations througb well-prepared investments, rehabilitation and
sectoral adjustment operations within a framework of appropriate sectoral
policies.   Third, to  improve  our knowledge  of  the  economic,  social,
institutional and administrative framework to tailor policy reforms better
to the country's absorptive capacity. Finally, to contribute to improved
aid effectiveness in Senegal by acting as the focal point for aid
coordination between donors and the Government, while at the same time
assisting the latter to strengthen its own planning and e!d coordination
capability.
136.      In agriculture,  past operations have aimed at improving the
productivity of traditional food and cash crops, supporting diversification
into new crops and regions, and enhancing forestry outputs and agricultural
research.   At  the  core  of  the  Government's  development  strategy  in
agriculture is the promotion of rainfed cereal production and the
exploitation of the irrigated rice farming potential in the Senegal River
Valley.   In  addition  to  the  Irrigation  Technical  Assistance  Project
approved in October 1985 to help restructure SAED, the national irrigation
organization (including preparation of a specific schedule for the latter's
disengagement from production activities), two other operations are under
preparation for the upcoming year: the Fourth Irrigation Project, designed
to help rehabilitate and expand rice perimeters, and the Technical
Assistance Project to the Ministry of Rural Development, which would assist
in the reorganization and strengthening of that Ministry.  Also under
preparation is a project which is designed to support input supply and
marketing activities for the development of rainfed areas.
137.      Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion
of the country's infrastructure In all modes of transport: highways, rail,
port  and  airport.   But  with  the  stagnant  economy  and  heavy  past
investments, emphasis is now being placed on better utilization and
maintenance of existing facilities.  To this end, three projects were
approved during FY84:  the Fifth Highway Project, which addresses the
Government's limited capacity to provide funds for road maintenance; the
Dakar Container Port Project, which includes rehabilitation and maintenance
of the Port of Dakar; and the Technical Assistance Project for Urban
Management   and   Rehabilitation,  which   emphasizes   maintenance   and
rehabilitation  of  urban  infrastructure  in  support  of  ineustrial
development.  To follow up these initiatives, a comprehensive transport
sector rehabilitation project is now under preparation.
138.      As in infrastructure, the Bank is supporting the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the major public utilities. In the power
sector, an engineering credit approved in 1980 led to sector reorganization



- 51 -
proposals, and a follow-up Energy Sector Rehabilitation project to support
tariff policy reforms pnd the expansion of operating capacity was approved
by the Executive Directors in June 1986. Preparation has also begun on an
engineering credit to assist OMVS, the Senegal River basin development
agency, to exploit the hydro power potential of the Manantali Dam
(scheduled  for  completion  in  mid-1988).   A  Second  Telecommunications
Project, designed to improve operational efficiency, and maintenance of
SONATEL,   Senegal's   telecommunication  utility,  and  increase  system
utilization, was also approved in June 1986. Finally, in the urban water
supply and sanitation sector, an engineering credit, approved in 1979, laid
the groundwork for the Eleven Centers Water Supply and Sewerage Project
which was approved in March 1985.
139.      While Bank strategy has supported the emphasis on financing
productive projects and rehabilitation needs, it also recognizes the need
to support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of
both the Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved and
improve the composition of spending.   In education,  efforts have been
directed at primary education, as addressed by the recently approved
Primary Education Development Project, and at technical and vocational
training to support activities in the productive sectors.  In health, the
ongoing Rural Health Project approved in 1982 focuses on strengthening
primary care in the rural regions and developing health, family planning
and  nutrition  education  within  an  integrated  maternal  and  child
health/family planning program.
140.      As it became increasing'ly clear that many of Senegal's economic
and financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed
exclusively through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the
late 1970s towards multi-sectoral technical assistance and structural
adjustment lending. Two operations in support of this effort are currently
being implemented: a Second Technical Assistance Project for economic and
financial planning was approved in August 1980 to help the Ministry of
Planning evaluate priority projects and monitor the investment program and
the Finance Ministry to strengthen its debt management capability; and a
Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project was approved in July 1983 to
help consolidate results already achieved under the first project and to
begin rehabilitation of some key public enterprises through detailed action
plans; a technical assistance project for development management is
currently being prepared to support the Government's action programs to
improve management of public investment, public debt, personnel information
and career development, as well as management of economic information and
the development of a policy formulation capacity. In addition, the project
wi'll help develop non-governmental consulting, research and training
institutions (Annex VII).
141.      The Bank Group's share in total external disbursements to Senegal
over  1983-86  averaged  approxImately  15  percent,  of  which  roughly
three-fourths was IDA-financed.  The Bank Group's share in outstanding
medium/long-term (MLT) debt was 16 percent at end-1986 and is projected at
around 22 percent by 1990. The Bank Group's share in MLT external debt



- 52 -
service payments (excluding IMF) rose from 3.7 percent in 1980 to 12
percent in 1986, but is projected to decline to around 8 percent in 1990,
under the assumption of no new debt relief between 1987 and 1990.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
142.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
143.      I am also satisfied that the proposed special African Facility
Credit would comply with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 adopted on May 21, 1985 by
the Executive Directors of the Association.
144.      I -m also satisfied that the proposed Special Joint Financing
Administration Agreement for the non-reimbursable contribution from
Switzerland would comply with the agreement between the Government of
Switzerland and the Association for cooperation in the Cofinancing of
Programs of the Special Facility for Sub-Sahara Africa dated September 11,
1985.
145.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed special African Facility Credit and
that the Association would act as Administrator of the proposed Special
Joint Financing non-reimbursable dontribution from Switzerland.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 4, 1987
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page I of 2
rmN DM - SENDL
AEk                    ,OL                                                 (193)
Total           196,200 sq. km           6.4 tiWa  (udd-19M)           31.7 per sq. to
Agrlcultual     109,300 sq. Km           Rat of Gmuth 2.9Z             55.2 nrrl popltiat   per sq. km
(1980 - 1985)                 arkulural Ind
ZUTW  OAMRLCt S  (19q1)                               WKALTI! (1971)
Crisis Sixth Rate (per 1,00)         46.1 Pualatim per physcim (1981)                       14.2OO
(Cide  eath Nate (INC 1,000          18.5              Poatiea  per o atal bed                 900
Ajp of 14 yearsn (                   44.4               nt      Ta1Uty PAt (pr 1,000)          138
Lrmn EbpsuSn                         34.4
DxE DlSDU II (1960)                                   D1SZEINlO OF WE  QWRUP
I of Nbaiml  1zie                                      Not available
Highet Qdntile                     62.5
Lo.aet Qdntile                      3.2
ACCESSD FMFD WAMR (1982)                               SOES  D EUEiiTY (1980)
Occwied d.mflin  vithmrt                               2 of Population - Total                 181
sOae wlr (1                        63.0                            - tll                 (neglgble)
Mnnm  (198143)                                         HUE&        (1980)
Caloric intake as rof Peqi           99.0              MduLt LiUtacy Rate 1                   10.0
Per Capita Prcein Inak  (gn3/dar)   70.0               PrimrySclrol Evalst Z                 48.0
(W FMI CAPrA In 985 al:  370
Mss NATNAL PRET n; D198                           AUAL RATE OF CRUM (K.   rate Prim)
us Stan        K          1960-70   1970-75   1975-0   1960-5
G? at iuket Price          2417        100.0          2.5       1.9       0.6       2.6
Gross Dstir  Invesoant      351         14.5          1.4       3.0      -4.6      -0.3
Gmss Nadtmal Sag            -99         -4.1          2.1       3.1    -31.7       -3.3
Curret Aummt Balm          451         -18.7
Bipora of GoS, Nam 80                   33.2          0.1       1.0      -3.2       0.3
lurts of Coods, NES        1123         46.5          0.2       1.4      -2.0      -0.7
rmur. Ewwrr nm pumtrrrm DIN 1983
Value Added                abar Ebrce               V.L Per Ia&lur
MS pan.         Z*         Milla           2ISS 5
iAgricultrs                  537.1          21.7          1.9         77.0           287         28.0
ladscry                      596.7          24.1         0.2          10.0          2456        241.0
Services                    1342.2          54.2         0.3          13.0          42D8        414.0
Tlbal                   2476.0         100.0          2.4        100.0           1L07        100.0
'-ERM     MOMS  81/82     V283       83184       84185        85/86       GrvJ;
gas and sa3aris              46          43          48          49           48               7.4
OpeatiFng apexptes           35          31          33          30           33               1.4
Interest on pablic debt      10          13          18          20           18              22.3
Tresyl    a   smm, net        9          13  .                    I            1
Crret apemlIuLes           LD 100                100          -W llD
(CYAP biUlla)
OQrret sqaiwes              182         215         N0          Z20          232               6.3
kevems                      152         176         189         204          219               9.6
Net baditary savIl          -30         -39         -17         -16          -13              13.2
Ikveicruat expmxlians        31          39          40          35           34               2.3
_ D item.           
P (currnt CFAP bn)          757         892         978         1083       1,224              12.8
Inladon (Z ,a.a)
(CP deJLadr)          8.8         9.2        10.7         11.6         8.4              10.0
a/  Per capita L    s     cal-ated by the -   m xsiuu cecmiqia as the
- World BkAtlas, 198445 edlt
Alohrcwmrs    to dolls in ths tble ar at the reap admp
rate preva    drfr  tn  r-    wwered.
oct appa
rt alb



ANNEX I
Pags 2 of 2
COSTlY DA1A - SENEGAL
......................
MNET4 CREDIT AND PRICES              1982     1983     198O     I 1985  1986 cf
........................            ....   . .....    .... . .....      ...... ....  .... .   ....  ........ ..... .....
(Bf ;lion CFAF, outst:uing end pert ad)
Mloney Supply (end of Juwr) h/     238.1   266.8   276.6   284.3    M99.3
ank Credit to Goverunt (net)         70.2    90.4    120.9   126.6   149.0
lank Credit to Private Sector      328.3   377.6   369.2   376.9   401.1
(Percentaee or Index rmero)
Mone ysd X of GDP                   25.2    218.4    27.2    24.7    23.1
General Price Index (1979.100)      138.9   151.1   16S.9    183.3   195.4
Arnal Percentage Chang in:
General Price Index                  10.2      8.8     9.8    10.5       6.6
Sank Credit to Goverruent (net)    134.8    25.8    33.7        4.7    17.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector        11.5    15.0    -2.2       2.1       7.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                          NERCAISE EXPOtTS (AVENGE 1983-85)
--............. .  -      --1992   1983     1934    1985            ........................._
(USS "In)    %
(US Sl tltions)                                             --------
Cratunwt Products                108    19.4
Pecrolem ijq,orts c/                 251      252      195      174          Fish and Flsh Prou*cts            110    19.7
Petroleu  Expotrs                    139      107        W       8?          Phosphats                           8     10.4
Petrolem Prodts                   98     17.6
Expdrts of Goods & IIFS              592      919      920      802          Fartllizn                          33      5.9
Imports of Goods * IFS              1276     1269    1179    1123            Salt                               11      2.0
Resource Balance                     3        -350    -259      321          Cotton                            l       3.2
Other Coods                       90    T6.1
Interest Payments (net)               aS       98      116      126          Entrqept                           ,2      5.7
Other Factor Payments (net)           28        23      23       23                                            --
Net Transfers (private)               -5       -9       -5       17          Total                             558   100.0
Halace on Current Account            -505     -480    -403    -451
EXTERNAL DEBr AS OF DECOBER 31, 19M  CUSS Kn)
Direct Investt                          5        2       -2      -3           ---------- .----------     ..- ..- --- ..
Official Transfer                     182      158      139      133          PublAc & Pubticly Guaranteed Debt        1989
PubLic NLT Loans (net)                275      306      17Z      171         Non-Guaranted Private Debt                   9
Disbursement                        284     320      204      216          Totat Outstanding and Disbursed           1998
Datwtizarion                         9        16      33       45
other Capital (net) e                 -71     -37       92       52          NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1985  d/
Overall Balance                      114     -53       -2      -99           ---------------------------
Pubtlc IL Publicly Guranted Debt         11.0
Net Foreign Assets (en  year)       -514      -476  1  -470    -689          Non-Gtirsnteed Privts Debt                 0.6
Totatl Outstandin  and Disbned           11.6
RATE OF ExCHANGE                                                            I1R1/IDA LENDING AS OF DEC. 31, 1985 CUSS Ktn.)
-------------...                AnnuLe Averages                                                                ss. ..........................IDA..
..........................                                                       to        IBI DA
1982     1983     194      17985    1986 
....*--*----*----   ------ ..... ..Outstading ad Dfshrsed                 90.4   231.5
Un 1.00 a CFAF             328.6   381.1    37.0    "9.3   346.3              Undiabursed     -               20.5   129.7
CFAF 1000 a USS             3.04     2.62     2.29     2.23     2.8           Outstanding lct. tMdidaued   110.9   361.2
as Decemer 1956.
b/ Hmoney aid quasi -moe.
cJ Crude ad derivativs
d/ Debt aervicea net of interest secured on foreign exchag reserves a a
percentage of exports of goaod and Man-factor services; after reacheduing.
e/ IncLudes errors and mlson.                                                                              Februry, 1987



ANNE II
Pag 1 of 2
SriS OF mD BAN OPtm l SENl
A. Statcent of Bak louIs and MA Credits (as of Septeter 30, 1986) *
loanl Credit
Nuer         Year   Bomroer    Arpose                              Bank      MDA 21 IUdisbursd 2/
Flfteen Loan 1/ and twen-au Credits fuly disbursed               100.01    160.57
1412-T-SE    1977   Senegl      Petite (Ste Touris                8.0                   0.78
1413-SE      1977   Senegal     Petite CSe Tourla                  5.6                  0.69
775-SE       1978   Senegal    Nobi4       r Irriptim                       20.0        0.77
908-SE       1979   Senegal       sc      m                                 22.0        5.36
991-SE        98      gal        Sml Rural OperatI                          11.0        3.16
1810-SE      1980   Segal       F th Riutug                       10.0                  0.18
S-26-SE      1980   S     al     Paowr E      J.l                            3.3        0.17
1061-SE      1980   Seal        T.A. fr Plan                                 5.3        1.12
1973-SE      1981     9 0        Istinht Promotian                 6.5                  3.18
1136-SE      1981     enel        ves t Protion                              2.5        1.21
1103-E       1981   Senegal     Fores                                        9.3        6.32
1176-SE      1982   Senel        A    ul   Resear                           19.5        10.37
1310-SE      1983    Se         Eural ealdt                                 15.0        9.13
1323-SE      1983   SenPgal       ecroleum    lrati                          9.5        4.42
1360-SE      1983   senegl      Phos. In. Dev. Fag                           7.7        5.90
1398-SE      1983   Seeal       Secwod T ParPiublic                         11.0        8.59
1406-SE      1983   se          E.S. Rural Dov.                             16.1       13.27
1448-SE      1984   Se           Fifth Higuy                                10.75       3.43
SF-15-SE     1984   Senegal      Fifth  1gy                                 10.75       3.62
1458-SE      1984   Senegal     TA  for Urbam [Mt. & Rebab.                  3.05       1.38
SF-13-SE     1984   Senel        TJL for Urban It & Rehab.                   2.95       3.01
1459-SE      1984               Dakar Canr Pomt                              2.65       2.24
SF-14-SE     1984        g       Dakar Catalner Port                         4.85       5.70
1354-SE      1985   Senegal     Eleven Centers Waer Supply                  24.00      20.68
1632-SE      1986   SIrrigati  T.A.                                          4.9        5.78
1638-SE      1986   Senegal     PW        %t.Sdml (W                         5.5        6.25
1656-SE      1986   Senegal      Stnral Ad ustCrt                           20.0        14.44
A--10SE      1986   senMlSrct rl                                            44.0        12.95
1710-SE      1986   S       eneral     Sec                                  20.00      22.21
1714-SE      1986               Senid Tle                                   22.0D      23.54
Total                                                    L30.13    488.17      199.85
of ubich repaid                                         26.87       7.40
Total now outstanding                              ,      103.26    480.77
Amt soIA 3l2d    2.6 
ofic has been repaid             3.26   2.40             O.0O       0.03
Total now held by Bank and TM  3                          103.26    480.74
Total undisbursed                                          4.83    195.02      199.85
I/ A loan of USS3.5 mulion for agriculaal credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was curdled on
larch 25, 1971.
2  Beening with Credit 1061-SE, credits [jive been denourited In Special Drarir Rights (SM. Te
doIar anwnets In these couis represent the dolr equivalents at the tIe o¶ credit negotiatias
for dte mA azm=ts and the US$ equivalets as of Septeber 30, 1986. for the undisbursed ants
(1 SM - US$1.21342).
31 Prior to exhange adjusbmits.
*   he status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report at all B1i/IA
finacial projects in execution, tich is updated twi  yearly atd circulated to the Eb itive
Directors on April 30 atd Octber 31.



rage z oSf 2
B. Statement of M Insenats (as of September 30. 1986)
AMwnt (u5$ ttUlon)
FIscal Yearr                              Type of Business        LOan      Tnestmnt         Total
1967         Societ Industrielle       Fertilizer Plant        2.45         1.01           3.46
d'ftigrais du S4r4gal
1972
1973         BUD S4nEgal, S.A.         Vegetable Export         -           0.84           0.84
1976)
1974          SOrIsT                    Dvelopment              -           0.34           0.34
Finance Cawmn
1980          3     d'Habitat           tnv  and Capital        -           0.47           0.47
d   S& l, S.A.          Mrt
1980         Socidt4 16telre            Tourisim               3.00          -             3.00
dLi Barahois, S.A.
1982          Inlustries  Cd hpxs       Fertilizer            25.00          -            25.00
du Se-nel
*19S84       African Seafood           Fish Processing         2.50         0.70           3.20
*Plant
1986         SUIIB-SlAFRC  1/          Print 1kfacturing       2.25          -             2.25
Total Gross Comtnents                           32.95         3.36          36.31
LessR Cancellations, Teniations,
Repawnfts, Salp aId losses                       7.54         1.15           8.69
Total Gnmitments now held by ItC                25.41         2.21          27.62
Undisbursed Balance                              9.50         0.70          10.20
1/ Approved but not yet signed/cmiaLtted (not included In totals)



Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(i)  Time taken to prepare the program:           seven months
(ii)  Initial discussions with IDA:                October 6-11, 1986
(iit)  Preparation mission:                         November 2-15, 1986
(iv)  Appraisal mission:                           February 9-23, 1987
(v) Negotiations:                                 April 6-22, 1987
(vi) Planned date of effectiveness:                June 1987



ANEX IV
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dakar, April 16, 1987



CONTENTS
I.    INTRODUCTION
II.   PRODUCTION AND EMPLOYMENT INCENTIVES
A.    Agricultural Incentives
B.    Reform of Industrial Incentives
C.    Reform of the Trade Sector
D.    Employment Policy
III. RESTRUCTURING OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
IV.  REFORM OF THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
V.    IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
A.   Public Investment
B.   Public Finances
VI.   SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM



I.        INTRODUCTION
1.        The Letter of Development Policy of December 19, 1985 from the
Government of the Republic of Senegal described the development of Senegal's
economy in recent years, which had made it necessary for the Government to
prepare its Medium and Long-Term Adjustment Program (PAHL), 1985-1992.
2.        In order to deal with the multiple imbalances affecting the real
economy and the financial situation at the end of the previous decade, Senegal
successively implemented the 1979 Stabilization Program and the Economic and
Financial Recovery Plan (pREF), 1980-1984.
3.        These programs had a very positive effect on the economic situatio.,
particularly by limiting the impact of the deteriorating financial position.
Nonetheless, the imbalances persisted and were even aggravated in 1983/84 by
the return of the drought; this led to a Government decision to pursue and
strengthen the process of adjusting the Senegalese economy, through a medium
and long-term program that emphasized the structural aspects of the crisis,
namely:
-    low and fluctuating growth rates;
-    preponderant position of the public sector;
-    relative rigidity of overall demand and supply, entailing
significant financial imbalances.
4.        To these structural rigidities that have adversely affected growth
and the allocation of national incoye, particularly savings, must be added the
effects of the financial crisis that began at the end of the 1970s.
5.        The foregoing provides the context for the IAML, through which
Senegal, over the period 1985-1992, is tackling the structural causes of the
crisis.
6.        The overall objectives of the PAML are as follows:
(a)  To consolidate the growth foundations by defining and  implementing
appropriate sector strategies and providing incentives designed to
stimulate production and private investment;
(b)  To improve the efficiency of investments in order to accelerate
growth, despite the financial constraint caused by the debt service
burden;
(c)  To reduce the structural constraint resulting from the weight of the
public and parapublic sectors;
(d)  To protect the long-tern foundations of growth by implementing
appropriate strategies in the education and health sectors and for
infrastructure development.



-2-
7.        This set of objectives will be achieved while the improvement of
Senegal's public finances and external accounts is pursued and the social
costs of the adjustment process are kept to a minimum.
8.        During the period 1985-86 the Government introduced appropriate
investment and production incentives in the two key sectors of agriculture and
industry. The reforms have created a framework favoring private and
individual initiatives, through major changes in the regulations governing
activities in various economic sectors and the introduction of appropriate
pricing and taxation policies. At the same time, through its commitment to
reform public resource allocation and management specifically through the
introduction of a new system of public investment programming and budgeting
and the restructuring of the parapublic sector, the Government has managed to
reduce the overall deficit on Central Government operations, restrict the
growth of domestic credit and improve Senegal's external accounts.
9.        These gains, achieved in the context of economic recovery in
1985 (3.8%) and 1986 (4.6%) despite the effects of the drought, further
encourage the Government to pursue and intensify its Adjustment Program.
10.       This first phase of the Adjustment Program, which was supported by
the World Bank (SAL II), the International Monetary Fund (Standby Arrangement
for 18 months, January 1985 to June 1986 and other foreign donors) had two
main objectives:
(1) to introduce production incentives; and
(2) to improve the management of public resources.
11.       The second phase of the PAML will focus principally on restoring
growth and employment and on taking further steps to improve the management of
public resources.
12.       To this end, the Government is determined to adhere strictly to the
timetable for introducing industrial and agricultural incentives. In
addition, so as to increase the effectiveness of these incentives and allow
them to have their full impact, a reform of the trade sector has been
initiated that will ensure a smooth flow of merchandise transactions. A
reform of the banking sector is also under way, the main objective being to
restore liquidity and facilitate the efficient recycling of available
resources in order to finance of growth and development.
13.       The rehabilitation of public finances will be pursued by controlling
and rationalizing expenditures (wage bill, equipment, supplies and transfers
among other things); a special emphasis will be given during this second phase
to increasing receipts.
14.       Accordingly, it is to support the implementation of the important
action plan described below, and which forms part of the PAML, that the
Government req-iests the assistance of the International Development
Association (IDA) in the form of a third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL
III), and of the African Development Bank and other donors.



-3-
15.       The program already has the support of the International Monetary
Fund, with which the Government has concluded an agreement under the
Structural Adjustment Facility.
16.       The Government's program for the next 12 months of 1987-88 has four
principal components: (1) production and employment incentives,
(2) rehabilitation of the financial system; (3) reform of the parapublic
sector; and (4) improved public sector management.
II.       PRODUCTION AND EMPLOYMENT JCENTIVES
17.       The incentives introduced by the Government involve, in addition to
the agriculture and industry sectors, reforms undertaken in the trade and
employment sectors.
A.   AGRICULTURAL INCENTIVES
18.       The Government of Senegal continues to attach great importance to
agriculture. Major reforms have already been initiated and will be continued
to promote the adjustment process in the sector and establish an environment
conducive to rapid development.
19.       The basic aims of these reforms, already included in the New
Agricultural Policy, are to increase domestic production and organize the
marketing of surpluses by transferring more responsibility to economic agents
(farmers, cooperatives, intermediaries and processors). At the same time, the
Government is redefining its role and creating a general framework that is
more amenable to initiatives from economic agents; this will involve its
gradual withdrawal from traditional supervisory functions and greater emphasis
on flexible planning.
20.       In the context of the second phase of the Adjustment Program the
Government has decided to prepare a coherent set of programs aimed at
consolidating and supplementing ongoing reforms and formulating and
introducing new measures in the sectors discussed below.
1.   Action Program for Development of Grains
1.1 Prices
(a) Producer prices: the system of floor prices (supported by the CSA)
will be maintained. However, relative and absolute price levels will be
revised in the light of economic efficiency criteria on the basis of a study
of agricultural prices and incentives (see below). The CSA's role and
operations will be reviewed to ensure that:
-    the floor price to the producer is actually paid and the costs of
CSA intervention in the market are kept to the necessary minimum;
-    the CSA's intervention and marketing policy will not disrupt the
growth of private marketing activities, either in terms of
quantities purchased or sold, or of prices charged;



-4-
-    the results of the CSA audit now under preparation will be available
for discussion before the end of April 1987.
An action plan based on the conclusions of the audit and the prices
and incentives study will be adopted by the Government in December 1987 and
will be operational for the 1988/89 marketing season.
Furthermore, a system of weekly media bulletins on prices and
markets for local grain. will be introduced before the beginning of July
1987. The system will be based on producer and consumer price data collected
from a number of urban and rural markets.
(b) Consumer prices: In order to encourage a shift in demand to local
coarse grains, the retail price of rice will be maintained at a level that
will continue to provide producers of unprocessed local grains (except paddy)
with adequate incentives.
1.2 Grain processing and distribution
The Government considers these factors to be as important as prices
in its strategy to revitalize the urban and rural markets for local coarse
grains. As envisaged in the June 1986 cereal plan, five small-scale
processing units were set up in the Groundnut Basin. Their performance will
be reviewed in April 1988. If the results arc positive, 23 additional units
will be set up over the following three years.
In April 1987 the Government will launch a pilot operation for the
processing of 500 tons of millet. This operation will require a subsidy of
CFAF 30-35/kg financed from the donors' comon fund; it will allow to obtain a
finished product at a price competitive with that of rice.
1.3 Other incentives for grain production
To develop a stable and increasing supply of marketable grains, the
Government will organize a promotion campaign with effect from the 1988189
crop year, pending the implementation of the rainfec agriculture development
project, and including:
special extension programs; and
the sale o. improved seeds at cost.
In addition, the Government is also in the process of finalizing an
interim three-year seed plan with the assistance of donors.
1.4 Prices and agricultural incentives study
The study will begin in April 1987 on the basis of the terns of
reference drawn up by the Government.
The results of the study will be available in August 1987. An
action plan based on its reconmendations will be prepared by the Gowernment
before end October 1987.



-5-
2.   The Groundnut Subsector
The Government considers it necessary to trim the cost of this
subsector in order to maximize the receipts it generates and lessen the amount
of financial support it may need as a result of international market
movements. To avoid weakening the incentives for a crop which is still
essential to the Senegalese economy, no adjustments in producer prices are
envisaged in the short term. In the longer term, the Government will seek to
fix the producer price in such a way as to provide sufficient incentives for
production and marketing while taking account of movements on the world market
for oilseeds.
The groundnut guarantee fund will not be financed from budgetary
funds but by means of Stabex resources and the millers' and growers'
contribution.
The Government will also examine marketing and processing costs in
tiag subsector. SONACOS will undertake a study of marketing costs before
December 1987 in order to identify possible sources of savings.
The Government has already begun to reduce the subsidy associated with
seed exchanges, which will disappear entirely in the 1988/89 crop year.
As regards processing, the Government will carry out a technical,
financial and management audit of SONACOS. One of the objectives of this
audit will be to help SONACOS/SEIB identify the possibilities of reducing
groundnut crushing costs. In the light of the findings of this audit, the
Government will ask SONACOS to prepare, before March 31, 1988, a program for
the restructuring of its industrial assets so as to increase their
productivity. Among other things, SONACOS must consider the possibility of
converting some of its installations to new productions and attracting private
capital.
3.   Liberalization: Decontrolling of tnputDistribution
Under the 1987/S8 fertilizer program 50,000 tons of urea and NPK
should be made available to farmers. Imports of urea have already been
entirely decontrolled; imports of other fertilizers will follow suit from
1989/90 onwards. Meanwhile, compound fertilizer will be produced by the ICS
and distributed to farmers by the private sector and the cooperatives, with a
subsidy of CFAF 16/kg. This subsidy, which in no circumstances will be
financed from public funds, wil'l be scaled down to CFAF 8/kg in 1988/89 and
will be eliminated before the 1989/90 crop year.
In the medium term, for each type of fertilizer the Government will
maintain a single price nation-wide thanks to a system of equalization of
transport costs until the conditions a regional modulation of prices have been
met.
This program will require the establishment of a credit system and
of the necessary incentives.



-6-
Finally, the Government will assess the results of the fertilizer
programs which have been implemented so far.
4.   Credit
The Government has established the following principles regarding
agricultural credit:
-    any financial institution will be allowed to grant agricultural
credit;
-    interest rates on agricultural credit provided by specialized public
agencies must be sufficient, within the framework of the current
regulations to ensure the financial viability of said agencies;
-    agricultural loans must in all cases be repaid on the terms and
conditions agreed by the parties concerned;
-    the system will utilize eq much as possible and reinforce group
solidarity so as to reduce the risk of non-repayment;    -
-    a program of incentives will be prepared within the framework of the
current regulations to encourage financial institutions to develop
financial services and collect savings in rural areas; and
-    the provision of agricultural credit will continue to be subject to
technical and financial appraisal of the companies and activities
for which credit is requested.
In addition, the Government undertakes to comuission in 1987 a
comparative study of the various agricultural credit programs by a special
committee and to implement an action plan based on this study.
Should experience show that the resources of the public sector
agricultural credit system are out of line with its costs (cost of financial
resources, administrative costs and provisions for non-repayment), the
Government would fix an acceptable interest rate in the context of current
legislation and regulations, introduce measures to reduce arrears and
administrative expenses and consider establishing a guarantee system
(guarantee fund, mutual guarantee association).
The preliminary analyses should be completed in July 1987 at the
latest.
5.  Agricultural Diversification and Export Promotion
The Government is studying different aspects of the diversification
of agricultural production:
-    in the Senegal River Valley, to develop crops with higher value
added and which therefore provide a better financial return than
cereals;



-    in horticultural areas, to improve yields and profitability;
-    in the Groundnut Basin, to improve yields and quality and develop
edible groundnuts and to try and modify their share in production;
-    to the north of the Groundnut Basin, to emphasize the promotion of
drought-resistant legumes, such as cowpeas; and
-    to the south of the Basin, to accelerate the development of maize.
In the case of the Senegal River area, the Government will start an
exploratory study in cooperation with potentially interested enterprises
before June 30, 1987.
Terms of reference will be available in May 1987. An action plan
based on the results of this study will be approved before end December 1987.
For the horticultural areas, the Government will complete a
subsector study before September 30, 1987 and will draw up an action plan
before December 31, 1987.
As regards the Groundnut Basin and neighboring areas, the Government
will ensure that the necessary items are included in the ISRA research program
(June 1987), and that cooperation agreements (similar to that between ISRA and
SAED) are concluded between ISRA and the regional development corporations
involved (October 1987).
6.   Reorganization and Strengthening of the MDR (Ministry of Rural
Development)
Preparation of the project submitted for financing by the Bank has
now been completed. Agreement has been reached on the components of the
project, which was appraised in March 1987. Execution will take place over a
period of three years, the essential aims being the following:
-    creation of a capacity to formulate and analyze agricultural
development policy proposals;
-    establishment of budget management mechanisms;
-    strengthening and training of the Ministry central services staff;
-    implementation of a number of studies leading to additional reforms,
for example, of the external services of the MDR and the
disengagement of the regional development agencies.
7.   Land Tenure
The Government has established, within the Comit6 National
Apr6s-Barrages, a working group whose mandate is to study all issues relating
to land tenure, particularly in the new zones which the dams will make it
possible to develop.



-8-
The basic principles in this area were set out by the
Interministerial Council on July 24, 1986, which, in order to ensure better
land management decided that the frontier zones ("Zones pionnieres") should
revert to being village community lands ("Zones de Terroir") and that all
irrigable land should be managed by rural communities, with the state being
enabled to retain and register tracks of land for projects declared to be in
the public interest. Land will continue to be allocated according to current
legislation.
A draft decree abolishing frontier zones and containing temporary
provisions governing land already allocated will be prepared before June 30,
1987.
In addition, it is agreed that prior to December 31, 1987 a study
will be made of the adjustments required to existing regulations in order to
permit:
-    the harmonious integration of new members in rural communities and
their access to land;
-    the establishment under acceptable conditions of any agro-industrial
enterprises of whatever nature;
-    the application of development criteria to beneficiaries to ensure
optimum land use;
-    recovery of the cost of part of public investment;
-    extensive publicizing of the legislation and regulations concerning
land tenure.
Finally, the cadastral plan will be completed in conjunction with
preparation of the master plan for the left bank.
8.   Livestock Policy
The Government has prepared a sector strategy designed to further
develop the potential that exists in this area. To this end, the
recommendations contained in the document of the InterAinisterial Council of
January 22, 1987 will be embodied in an action plan before June 1987, which
will be implemented before thetend of 1988.
The principles on which the livestock development policy is based
are as follows:
-    decontrolling of domestic meat prices by June 1987;
-    inclusion of meat in the study of tariffs to be applied to imported
products;
-    incentives to encourage the private sector to reduce costs and
increase efficiency;



-9-
strengthening of livestock services;
-    acceleration of the establishment of groups of livestock owners.
In June 1987 a draft law will be prepared, to go into effect before
the end of 1987, providing for termination of the SERAS monopoly on hides and
skins; the privatization plan of the hides and skins subsector will be
completed before December 31, 1987. The restructuring of SODESP will be
completed in October 1987.
9.   Strengthening of Livestock Services
The principle of total recovery of the costs of annual animal health
campaigns was declared by the Government in the Interministerial Council
document of January 1987 on stockraising. In addition, the action program to
be prepared by June 1987 will also:
-    contain proposals for strengthening the qualifications of livestock
services personnel;
-    strengthen the infrastructure and operations of field services ; and
-    encourage the participation of private individuals in the provision
of veterinary services and distribution of drugs and livestock feed
products.
B.  REFORM OF INDUSTRIAL INCENTIVES
1.  Diagnosis
21.       The development of Senegal's industrial sector has slowed in recent
years. Apart from unfavorable worldwide economic conditions, some aspects of
the existing incentives policy have ceased to have a positive impact on
businesses.
22.       The analyses carried out under the Government's adjustment program
have highlighted the following three factors:
-    the priority given to import-substitution industries has not.
promoted the development of non-traditional exports. This policy
has reached its limits because of the small size of Senegal's market
and the excessive and unequal protection which discourages exports
and encourages clandestine imports;
-    the proliferation of special advantages under the incentives policy
bas led to distortions in the industrial environment, poor resource
allocation and significant costs; and
-    the constraints on enterprises have become excessive, sharply
limiting the industrialists' room for maneuver.



- 10 -
2.   Obiectives
23.       The Government has therefore established the following objectives as
part of the PAML:
-    revision of the system of industrial incentives, in order to make
the sector more competitive on the domestic and foreign markets,
gradually restore competition and reduce the costs to the State of
administering the incentives system;
-    creation of ways of supporting enterprises, by setting up specific
industrial restructuring funds utilizing contributions by firms from
their own resources, and making available to industrialists
advisory, study and promotion services adapted to their companies'
needs.
24.       These guidelines reflect the Government's desire to give companies
freedom of action in a competitive market while providing them with the means
for successful adaptation during this transition phase, during which excessive
protection must be eliminated.
3. Action Program
25.       The Government's goal is to achieve the objectives described above
between now and December 31, 1988. To this end an action plan for the
industrial sector has been adopted whose main lines are as follows:
-    revision of the protqction system;
-    improvement of export promotion instruments;
-    reform of the investment code; and
-    easing of constraints on enterprises.
(a) Introduction of a system of protection based on harmonized tariff
protection
The first phase of the reform of customs tariffs was begun in August
1986. The second phase, scheduled to be completed in July 1988 with in
particular the introduction of a new customs tariff, will result in a
harmonized system of import duties.
Since February L986 all restrictions on imports of all products not
made in Senegal were lifted (Decree No. 86-241 of February 28, 1986). In July
1986 a timetable for the elimination of prior authorizations to import
products that are also manufactured in Senegal was drawn up and put into
effect. This timetable covers:
-    machinery and metalworking (July 1, 1986);
-    paper/cardboard packaging (October 1, 1986);



- 11 -
-    construction materials and parts of shoes (January 1, 1987);
-    agri-food sector and paper products (office items) (March 1, 1987);
-    chemicals sector (except batteries, accumulators, household soaps,
PVS pipes/tubes) (July 1, 1987); and
-    batteries and accumulators, textiles, shoes, paper producta (school
articles) (January 1, 1988).
Controls on industrial prices and profit margins will be lifted
simultaneously with the elimination of quantitative restrictions.
(b) Reference prices and product-specific schedules
The Government has decided to progressively apply the common law
system to all industries. To pave the way for this, a study of reference
prices has been undertaken and, based on the findings of this study, an action
plan will be drawn up aimed at limiting their field of application.
In addition, and in the same spirit, the Government intends to
revise the product-specific exceptions with a view to reducing their field of
application.
(c) Improvement of export promotion instruments
-    drawbacks are now endorsable and can be used to pay other import
duties. The functioning of the drawback system will be periodically
reviewed;
-    since August 4, 1986 the export subsidy has been based on domestic
industrial value added at border prices. The level of the subsidy
will be periodically reviewed by an interministerial monitoring unit
set up for this purpose;
-    export procedures will be simplified at all levels;
-    the problems relating to the financing and insuring of exports will
be solved as part of the restructuring of the Agence Sen6galaise
d'Assurance du Commerce Exterieur (ASACE) and of the Centre
S6n6galais du Commerce Exterieur (CSCE);
-    an export product standardization and quality control program will
be established to facilitate penetration of foreign markets.
(d) Reform of the Investment Code and review of special agreements
The principle of special agreements and contracts between
enterprises and the State has been abandoned. This will be reflected in the
new Investment Code, which is expected to be adopted during the first half of
1987. The results of the study on the special agreements will be available in



- 12 -
June 1987 and a program for review of current special agreements will be drawn
up. The renegotiation of certain agreements has already been started.
The interministerial group that is reviewing the Investment Code is
continuing its work and a draft revised code embodying the following
principles will shortly be submitted to the National Assembly:
(1) reduction in incentives over time;
(2) transparency and automaticity of eligibility criteria; and
(3) no discrimination against small firms as compared with large ones.
(e) Easing of constraints on companies
The constraints on companies will be eased by means of:
-    the "single-window" concept, for which the draft will be prepared
before the end of May 1987;
-    the establishment of an administrative formalities center;
-    the introduction of greater flexibility in the functioning of the
labor market (see Section D: "Employment Policy").
26.       At the institutional level:
-    a technical committee for monitoring industrial reform has been
functioning since December 1986;
-    the Government is considering forming an Interministerial Committee
for Industrial Restructuring, which could be set up in the second
half of L987.
C.  REFORM OF THE TRADE SECTOR
27.       The multiplicity of regulations governing the trade sector is no
longer suited to the requirements of the new policies implemented in both
agriculture and industry.
28.       A series of measures have been taken to support the above-mentioned
reforms with a view to creating a less restrictive environment and increasing
trade flows.
29.       The numerous liberalization measures introduced in the productive
sectors of the economy will only have their full impact on economic recovery
if they are complemented by an overhaul of the distribution sector. For this
reason the Government has simultaneously introduced reforms in the trade
sector.



- 13 -
1. Reform of the distribution system
30.       At present traders are subdivided into two legal categories,
wholesalers and retailers.
31.       Experience shows that designation as a wholesaler or retailer
through an administrative authorization issued on presentation of the
requisite documentation (Decree No. 7861 of July 18, 1979) is incompatible
with modern commercial practices .
32.       The fact is that wholesale or retail trading is not a status but a
function.
33.       The Government has accordingly decided to eliminate the notional
distinction between wholesale and retail traders.
34.       Henceforward there will be a single status, that of trader, the
nature of the activity exercised being determined by the free choice of the
economic agent and his financial position.
35.       In addition, the prior authorization to engage in business that used
to be required to obtain the trader's license, will be replaced by a
declaration, which, accompanied by a certificate of registration in the
commercial register, will automatically provide entitlement to the trader's
license.
36.       Nevertheless, to avoid constant clogging of their commercial
departments, manufacturing enterprises will notify the authorities and
economic agents regarding the sizes of orders for each product that are to be
regarded as wholesale purchases, in the context of existing legislation and
regulations.
37.       The stipulation which obliges manufacturers to sell only to
wholesalers ignores the specific nature of certain fresh products (milk, ice
cream, yogurt, cosmetics, perfumes, beauty creams, enamels, etc.), which means
that there cannot be any wholesale distribution of such products. The change
in the regulations pertaining to the above-mentioned products will stimulate
revival of commercial operations at all stages of distribution, since moreover
it is open to any manufacturer tb set up his own distribution company. The
Government is in the process of preparing a new law on competition which takes
account of the guidelines established for this sector.
38.       The Government has also decided to ease the restrictions on the
ability of economic agents to obtain an importer-eiporter card under the
existing regulations.
39.       In practice, all the documentation required to apply for an
importer-exporter card will be eliminated, except for tax documents showing
that the importer has discharged his tax obligations:
-    the committee that awards importer-exporter cards will be eliminated;



- 14 -
sector-specific cards will be eliminated;
the procedures for issuing the licences will be streamlined and
reduced to:
-- the issuance of trader's licence;
-- collection of a fee of CFAF 10,000;
certification of registration for a taxpayer's account, for new
traders, or certification that the importer has discharged all his
tax obligations, for traders who wish to renew their
importer-exporter cards.
40.       Importer-exporter cards will have to be renewed every five years.
41.       In order to discourage fraud, those wishing to renew
importer-exporter cards will also be required to provide a certificate of
compliance with customs regulations issued by the Customs Administration.
42.       Corporations will also be required to provide a notarized copy of
their statutes.
43.       The importer-exporter card will therefore be issued on request
within a maximum period of one month to all those who provide the documents
referred to above. It will entitle the holder to operate in all branches of
trade under ordinary law conditions.
2.   Price Decontrol
44.       The Government has decided to remove all a priori controls on the
prices of industrial products in the competitive sector that are currently
subject to a permissible profit margin (Decree 80-607) or to administrative
price-fixing (direct fixing, strict or simple approval; Decree 84-404).
45.       It should be noted that the removal of controls on competitively
produced goods that can be freely imported took effect in Senegal with the
implementation of the timetable for the elimination of quantitative
restrictions (prior authorizations and quotas).
46.       The same is true for competitive sector products subject to approval
or direct price fixing.
47.       All the measures required to establish a competitive commercial
system in Senegal will be introduced with a view to their practical
application by the end of March 1987 at the latest.
3.   Regulation of Exports
(a) Work of the SENPRO committees
48.       The simplified and harmonized documents are being standardized and
should be published around June 1987.



- 15 -
(b) Institution of export promotion
49.       CICES:  The review has begun and will shortly benefit from the
assistance of external advisers. The relevant terms of reference have been
prerared and submitted to the CCI and these consultants, who will be financed
by UNDP, should begin work at the end oE April 1987. The preliminary
conclusions from this work will serve as a basis for drawing of an assistance
program for CICES within the framework of the Industrial project under
preparation.
50.       ASACE: The restructuring study was started at the beginning of
February 1987 and the conclusions will be available before April 1987. An
action plan based on the study will be prepared by the Senegalese authorities,
and assistance for its implementation could also be provided within the
framework of the industry project.
4. Quality Control
51.       The system of prior authorizations to manufacture food products,
formerly issued by the Economic Control Department, has been converted into a
simple declaration system. Meanwhile, the round tables held under the aegis
of the Ministry of Industrial Development to bring together the parties
concerned (ITA, ISN, ENSUT, etc.) will facilitate the formulation of a general
policy on standardization and assistance to exporters for quality control
purposes, and will produce reconmendations for the rationalization and better
definition of the roles of the various agents in this area; this assistance
(including the introduction of a quality seal, if this is felt to be useful)
would remain optional, open to exporters in certain priority sectors.
D. EMPLOYMENT POLICY
1. Diagnosis
52.       The level of unemployment in Senegal is disturbingly high; in the
light of current economic performance, the outlook is not encouraging. The
causes of this situation are both cyclical and structural, namely:
-    relative labor costs that are regarded as excessive;
-    relatively constricting social regulations;
-    relatively low labor productivity;
-    a general inability of the system to create jobs.
2. Objectives
53.       In view of this situation, the Government has decided to implement a
set of policies designed to adapt tLe labor market to the requirements of an
expanding economy.
54.       The general aim is to ease or eliminate, wholly or in part, one or
more constraints, viz.:



- 16 -
-    to improve and simplify social security regulations and related
administrative Procedures;
-    to raise the return on employed manpower and encourage job creation,
by lowering the relative cost of labor and increasing its
productivity;
-    to ensure greater mobility in employment;
-    to enable effective (i.e. viable and durable) redeployment of
workers made redundant as a result of the measures envisaged to
implement the process of structural adjustment and the microeconomic
adjustment policies adopted by firms in the light of the new
economic situation; there already exists, under the aegis of the
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, a Special Redeployment Fund
for workers made redundant by the rural development corporations;
-    to encourage the creation of a significant number of permanent jobs
in the economy;
-    to introduce new opportunities for voluntary departure from existing
positions and concomitant redeployment into private-sector
activities, for both private and parapublic sector workers, and most
particularly, public sector employees (civil service).
55.       These objectives will have to be pursued in strict conformity with
the parameters of the economic and financial adjustment policy, which provides
the overall framework for State actions.
56.       In particular, the optimum handling of the social cost of the sector
strategies (NAP, NIP, reform of parapublic sector), in terms of losses of jobs
especially, is viewed as a complementary strategy within the context of the
adjustment program. Accordingly, the strategy of creating new enterprises to
provide employment for new workers coming on to the labor market or to absorb
those rendered redundant elsewhere, and that of creating jobs in existing
enterprises, constitute instruments for accomplishing the aims of the
adjustment program.
3.  The Action Plan
57.       This set of goals is to be achieved between now and December 1988,
particularly if the studies now under way are sufficiently conclusive. The
principal actions in the plan can be divided into reforms of regulations and
studies, and programs to be undertaken.
(a) Labor Code reforms
58.      A draft law amending Articles 35, 193, 195 and 199, and adding
Article 199 (a), to the Labor Code will be submitted to the National Assembly
in June 1987.



- 17 -
59.       The entry into force of this law and of its implementing decrees and
orders has been set for the end of July 1987.
60.       The main provisions of the draft law are as follows:
-    elimination of-the placement monopoly hitherto accorded to the
public manpower services, to enable firms to recruait directly or use
private placement agencies; and
-    easing of the rules governing the conditions for renewing fixed-term
labor contracts for non-permanent jobs.
(b)  Studies to be undertaken
-    The manpower service reform study, which should be completed in May
1987, is intended to produce a thorough analysis of the tasks,
resources and methods of the said service, evaluate the results and
make proposals for comprehensive reforms in the light of the new
framework for its activities.
-    The study of incentives to entrepreneurs and workers to promote
businesses, production and employment, which comprises three
complementary components:
- the link between productivity and wages in enterprises;
-   participation by wage-earners in the equity base and in
profit-sharing; and
- the financing of social security costs borne by employers.
This study was begun in October 1986 and should be entirely
completed by October 1987. Its recominendations will be examined with a view
to their possible adoption.
(c) Program envisaged
-    Industrial Restructuring Fund
In the context of the adaptation of the industrial sector to the new
competitive environment, an Industrial Restructuring Fund is
envisaged to support in particular modernization of the production
apparatus and efforts to improve productivity.
III.      RESTRUCTURING OF THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION SYSTEM
A.  Diagnosis
61.       Senegal's banking system, consisting of some 20 institutions, is
currently undergoing a liquidity crisis that is forcing the banks to confine
themselves to financing short-term commercial operations at a time when the
priority should be the financing of development or adjustment-related
activities.



- 18 -
62.       Apart from these common characteristics, the banks are not all in
similar financial situation:
-    in some cases, in-depth analysis has revealed the need for thorough
relhabilitation, as in the case of the USB and the BCS, for which the
relevant plans are being implemented. A rehabilitation plan is
being prepared for the BNDS;
-    for others, careful monitoring is needed.
63.       For those banks whose financial position is sound, ways must be
found to channel their resources towards applications that better meet the
needs of Senegal's economy.
B.   Obiectives
64.       The Government has decided to create the conditions that will
strengthen the capability of the banking system to respond to its economic
orientation. This presupposes the restoration of bank liquidity and the
rehabilitation of the financial situation of the institutions in difficulties,
these actions being complemented by a thorough reform of the financial
intermediation system.
C.   Methods
Z. Rehabilitation Plans and Restoration of Bank Liquidity
65.       To relieve the banks' very large cash deficits, the state has been
obliged to take certain steps on behalf of those institutions with the largest
imbalances:                                                             -
-    In 1984 alleviation of the burden of the outstanding ONCAD debt
(almost CFAF 100 billion) on the BNDS through its reallocation among
other banking institutions; this enabled BNDS's share in ONCAD debt
to be reduced to 411; and
-    mandatory channeling of deposits by public organizations to BZU)S and
USB; the effects, although limited, have nonetheless been
perceptible.
66.       However, these measures have not been sufficient and broader actions
have already been initiated as a result of the recent steps taken by the UMOA
to consolidate at a non-penalizing rate the loans made to member banks in
difficulties.
67.       A rehabilitation plan has been prepared for USB as a result of
efforts by the State and by Cr6dit Lyonnais, USB's principal partner.
68.       The rehabilitation plan for ENDS will be submitted to the monetary
authorities at the end of April 1987. The submission of this plan will be
accompanied by a statement on the position of the state vis-a-vis BNDS,
outlining the state's intcn-tion to reduce its share of the capital to 511 at
most.



- 19 -
69.       Arrangements have already been made to help other establishments
(SOFISEDIT, BIAO).
70.       Nonetheless, the low capitalization of most institutions, excessive
recourse to Central Bank refinancing and inadequate financial results (often
negative) indicate that rehabilitation is essential. The actions undertaken
in this sense aim to:
-    improve the liquidity of the banks through an appropriate
applications and resources policy and more intensive efforts to
collect private or public debts;
-    enhance portfolio quality by rehabilitating public enterprises
heavily comitted towards the banking system, and reducing other
public arrears and inactive portfolios (e.g. ONOAD);
-    strengthen the banks' financial base by equity contributions; and
-    tighten the controls, particularly those of a preventive nature,
over the quality of bank portfolios and the accuracy of their
accounts. To this end and to ensure observance of the banking
regulations, the supervision exercised by the Central Bank and the
"Banking Control Commission" will be strengthened; the latter will
henceforth produce quarterly, instead of annual, reports. The
penalties specified by the regulations will also be strictly applied
in accordance with reconmendations contained in said reports.
71.       To a very large extent, this strategy will be implemented through
the mobilization of significant amounts of public funds, either in the form of
direct contributions to the institutions, or through significant reduction of
public enterprises arrears carried by the banks. The volume of these arrears
would justify assistance to the banking sector, in the form of a project which
will be presented elsewhere.
2.   Reform of the Financial Intermediation System
72.       The state has embarked on major reforms designed to strengthen the
capability of the banking system to mobilize domestic and external resources
to sustain economic recovery and to improve its performance in financing
growth and development.
73.       The actions to be taken will be specified by the overall study on
the banking sector, the conclusions of which will shortly be examined. In the
meantime the State has already decided on a certain number of measures:
-    to reduce the tax on interest income earned on deposits (TPS) from
17X to 7S; this should have a positive impact on savings
mobilization;
-    to raise in 1987 the minimum capital requirements for banks, so as
to strengthen the financial resources of credit institutions;



- 20 -
-    in order to facilitate access by small and medium-size enterprises
to credit, rationalize the various existing funds, whose functions
sometimes overlap, to improve their financing conditions and increase
the recourse to donors for their financing.
IV.       REFORM OF THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
A.   Diagnosis
74.       The parapublic sector bas grown very rapS  y and covers almost all
sectors of economic activity. Nonetheless, its contribution to Senegal's
economic development has not matched what could have been achieved by private
enterprise and has entailed financial costs that have become unbearable,
largely because of poor internal management of the public enterprises and
shortcomings in the system of state supervision and control.
75.       At July 1, 1985 the parapublic sector in Senegal consisted of:  62
mixed-capital companies with direct state participation; 5 national
corporations ("Soci6te nationale"), and 24 public agencies ("6tablissement
public").
76.       The capital base of the 62 mixed-capital companies and the national
corporations owned by the state amounted to CFAF 33.1 billion as of
July 1, 1985.
B.  Objectives
77.       The aims of the new government policy concerning the parapublic
sector adopted on July 29, 1985 are to increase the efficiency of the
state-owned production system through systematic withdrawal from production
and commercial activities, rehabilitate the enterprises retained in the
state's portfolio, and introduce a supervisory framework designed to encourage
the development of responsibility and autonomy in these enterprises.
78.       To attain these objectives, the Government has adopted a multiyear
action plan which is now being implemented. During the years 1987-89 the
Government intends to accelerate this process in four key areas: (1)
divestiture of state ownership; (2) rehabilitation of public enterprises;
(3) transparency of financial relations between the state and the public
enterprises; and (4) rationalization of the legal and institutional
framework. The Government will take the necessary measures to strengthen the
institutions that are guiding and overseeing the reform. To this end it will
study proposals to broaden the mandate of the GESP in order to enhance the
latter's capability for preparing for policy decisions and monitoring their
execution, and it will revise its composition in order to include
representation from outside the Administration. Likewise, a plan to
strengthen the Program-Contract Unit will be prepared between now and the end
of June 1987 to increase its capacity to provide technical support to the GESP.



- 21 -
C. Action Program
1.  Disengagement
Divestiture of State ownership will be pursued in three areas:
1.1 Mixed-capital companies
Of the 62 mixed-capital companies in which the state has a direct
holding, the Government has already decided to transfer all its shares in 15
companies, to reduce its holding in 13 others, and to liquidate six in
addition to the four liquidations that were previously decided. This first
phase of divestiture will be completed by the end of 1989 at the latest. A
study of the procedures for state divestiture and for the preparation for
privatization of 10 companies will be completed by July 1, 1987 at the
latest. The offering for sale of the shares in these companies is planned for
September 1987. A second batch of 10 to 17 companies to be privatized in 1988
will be selected before the end of 1987. The remainder of the state's
portfolio will be reviewed in 1988 with a view to identifying other candidates
for privatization.
In addition, the Government has decided to examine all proposals to
purchase shares in parapublic enterprises even if the enterprise has not been
listed for privatization, with the understanding that sales would be made on a
competitive basis.
As regards the liquidation of the seven companies, the Government
will take the necessary measures to speed procedures so as to complete the
process, except for matters under litigation, before the end of 1987.
A program has been drawn up to wind down four rural development
agencies (SOMIVAC, SODAGRI, SODEVA and SODESP). In view of the specific
objectives assigned to SODEFITEX and SAED, a program involving a significant
withdrawal of the State divestiture and transfer of responsibility to sector
operators has been prepared.
1.2 Public agencies
The possibility of partially privatizing public agencies through
their conversion into mixed-capital companies will be studied between now and
the end of 1987. As regards CEREEQ, this conversion is scheduled for December
31, 1987. In addition, the state will examine the remaining public agencies
in order to identify before June 30, 1987 those having structural deficits and
performing no public service function, with a view to their liquidation.
Finally, certain public agencies of an administrative nature,
essentially consisting of training schools, will be given a legal status
analogous to that of the University of Dakar.
2.   Rehabilitation of Parapublic Enterprises



- 22 -
2.1 Institutional framework
To increase enterprise autonomy and strengthen their internal
management tools, the Government has adopted a Mhanagement Charter which will
be disseminated among the enterprises in July 1987. In addition, a study of
internal control units (in the parapublic enterprises) is under way. An
action plan to apply the recomnendations of this report will be implemented in
all enterprises in September 1987.
2.2 Rehabilitation plans: program-contract agreements
The state intends to pursue its policy of contractual relations with
the public enterprises retained in its portfolio, in order to restructure them
and improve their management. At January 1, 1987, seven program-contracts and
one rehabilitation plan (ISRA) were being implemented. During 1987 it is
planned to conclude six program-contracts and five rehabilitation plans. In
1988 program-contracts in six other enterprises are envisaged.
I
In order to make the program-contracts an effective instrument for
clarifying the relations and mutual obligations between the state and the
public enterprises, the Government will take measures to meet its financial
comuitments. In particular, before finalizing the draft finance law in any
year, it will compare all the financial obligations deriving from the
program-contracts either already in effect or to be initiated in that fiscal
year and the resources available to it in the state budget, including those
that may be provided in the form of external assistance. Furthermore, the
recommendations regarding technical and financial monitoring resulting from
the seminar on program-contracts will be applied from June 1987 onwards.
3.   Financial Relations between the State and Public Enterprises
The Government intends to improve its financial relations with the
parapublic sector by making them more transparent, as follows:
-    introduction of an annual economic information system of the
parapublic sector to provide regular statistics on typical sector
aggregates. Forecasting modules will be developed and put into
operation by January 1, 1988 to serve as a management tool;
-    completion of the program for settlement of reciprocal debts and
claims recognized as of June 30, 1985; a Government decision on
disputed claims will be requested by May 15, 1987 at the latest. By
July 31, 1987 a final settlement of reciprocal debts and claims for
enterprises representing at least 80% of the amounts involved will
be drawn up, along with a timetable for settlement of net
positions. A final settlement for all the other enterprises will be
reached by October 1, 1987 at the latest;
-    the tabulation and reconciliation of debts and claims covering the
period July 1, 1985 to June 30, 1986 will be completed by June 30,
1987 at the latest. The settlement plan will be established before
October 1, 1987.



- 23 -
Financial relations will be monitored through the Annual Economic
Information System with the aim of avoiding a recurrence of the arrears in the
future.
The timetable for the reduction of direct subsidies is as follows
(taking 1985-86 as the base): 51 in 1986/87; 10% in 1987/88; 151 in 1988/89
and 201 in 1989/90. This phasing will significantly accelerate the reduction
in subsidies from 1987/88 onwards, while maintaining the overall objective of
a 50% reduction by 1989/90. Furthermore, the Government does not plan to
grant any operating subsidies other than those included in the Finance Law.
Finally, the Government has initiated a tariff study whose
recommendations will be made available at the end of March 1987. It will
apply these recommendations in order to introduce a true pricing policy in the
public enterprises.
4.   Legal and Institutional Framework
As part of the implementation of the action plan for the parapublic
sector, a new law repealing Law 77-89 will be promulgated and implementing
decrees will be issued by June 1987 at the latest. The role of the oversight
agencies over parapublic sector enterprises will also be redefined.
The role of the control bodies will be revised to eliminate
progressively a priori control in favor of a concomitant strengthening of a
posteriori controls. To this end a complementary study on the control system
for parapublic enterprises will be carried out. The terms of reference for
this study will be available in June 1987. The study will be started in
October 1987.
Official accounting standards have been prepared in order to
establish audit norms and a national regulatory framework. These standards
will be disseminated during 1987.
The financial accounts of all enterprises will be audited annually
and a management audit will be conducted at least every five years.
A study is being carried out on the operations of the boards of
directors. This study will lead to an action plan to improve the state's
representation on these boards and strengthen their role. The action plan
will be drawm up in July 1987 at the latest.
Finally, the definition and organization of the government oversight
function ("tutelle") will be specified in the new law on the parapublic sector.
V.   IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
79.       Government efforts will be concentrated on improving the efficiency
of public investment and on restoring the public finances.



- 24 -
A.   PUBLIC INVESTMENT
1.   Diagnosis
80.       Analysis of public investment performance in Senegal has revealed
major shortcomings as regards the mobilization and efficient utilization of
resources. Excesively vague definitions of objectives and resource allocation
criteria and deficiencies in the programming and monitoring of public
expenditure have adversely affected the returns on investments, particularly
in the second half of the 1970s.
2.   Objectives
81.       The essential objective of the Adjustment Program in this area is to
improve the efficiency of public investment. To this end the Government has
decided to reform the system of planning, programming, budgeting, executing
and monitoring public investment, a reform initiated in 1986. The aims are to
improve rehabilitation and maintenance programs for existing infrastructure,
achieve a more rigorous selection of economic and social infrastructure
projects that are not directly productive, including a more rigorous
estimation of recurrent charges, give priority to productive projects with
high economic and financial returns, and make the programming and monitoring
of public investments more efficient.
3.   Actions
82.       The main actions envisaged to achieve these objectives can be stated
as follows:
-    enhanced economic policy analysis and formulation;
-    improving the programming, budgeting, execution and monitoring of
investment projects; and
-    as regards expenditure programming, a better mix between capital
costs and recurrent charges borne by the state.
This series of measures would be implemented in the context of the
project to reform the national planning system, which will be examined by the
Higher Planning Council (CSP) at the end of June 1987.
3.1 Enhanced economic policy analysis and formulation
(i)    To improve resource allocation, measures are envisaged that will
strengthen the quality and availability of statistical information, establish
a data bank, and encourage the preparation of sector and sub-sector studies
along with the development of analytical tools such as input-output tables.
(ii)    Economic policy formulation will be enhanced as a result of the
actions described above, and by a long-term outlook study (whose terms of
reference will be prepared before the end of June 1987). This will involve



- 25 -
defining and submitting to the CSP a new framework for economic and social
planning which will take into account the introduction of "rolling" investment
programs.
While an Input-Output Table is being prepared and production
capacities are being evaluated, the Government will before December 1987
establish an improved macroeconomic framework that will take account of the
sector policies already established, and in particular of the contributions of
the various sectors to CDP growth. Along the same lines, the three-year
outlook study will determine the financial constraints within which the
selected projev.ts must fit.
3.2 Improving the project planning, budgeting, execution and
monitoring cycle
The medium-term reform program will propose a consistent set of
actions that will cover all phases of project planning, budgeting and
monitoring cycle, from identification through evaluation. Among these actions
should be mentioned:
-    introduction of a project identification system to facilitate fucure
investment planning;
-    strengthening of the criteria for project preparation, appraisal and
selection. Projects will not be included in the program unless they
are proved to be technically, financially and economically viable,
that their physical and financial execution is feasible, and their
recurrent costs adequately met;
-    enhanced physical and financial programming and budgeting of
investments; and
-    better execution and monitoring of projects.
Between now and June 1988 the following actions will be taken:
(i)    effective decentralization of project identification and preparation
to the Ministries of Rural Development, Water Supply, Infrastructure,
Industry, Education and Health (end of March 1988);
(ii)    preparation of a standard guide for economic analysis of projects
(end of June 1987), along with the publication of periodic price series and
deflators to be used in project analysis (end of December 1987);
(iii)    preparation of a document defining the criteria and tools for
project selection, and the operating rules and procedures of the Project
Selection Committee (end of June 1987);
(iv)    completion of the computerized monitoring system for the physical
and financial execution of public investments (end of June 1987);



- 26 -
(v)    proposals for actions designed to enhance project execution (end of
September 1987);
(vi)    draft of the three-year Public Investment Program (PIP)
1988/89-1990/91 (end of August 1987), with improvements in the following areas:
-    consistency with the macroeconomic framework;
-    economic and financial appraisal of at least 80% of the appraisable
project portfolio and 1001 of the appraisable projects of the first
year of the program, 1988/89 (by value);
-    impact of the PIP on public finances, especially:
(a) recurrent costs of all projects starting after July 1, 1988 and
other projects under execution during the PIP for the urban water
supply, health, education and transportation sectors, and (b) impact
on the external public debt and proposed conditions for the
financing to be sought;
-    consolidation of PIP by project and economic sector;
-    harmonization or possible consolidation of project and programing
data sheets; and
-    reconciliation of the public enterprise investment program and
investments proposed under the program-contracts being negotiated.
3.3  Harmonization of the programming of investments and recurrent charges
This objective is part of the medium-term goal of achieving better
allocation and management of public resources. Between now and June 1988 a
number of developments will lead to improved analysis of public expenditure
and resource allocation decisions:
better information on recurrent charges for new investment projects
(see above);
functional analysis of current public expenditure so as to determine
the capability for financing recurrent charges for existing
investments (See Section B, below);
-    strengthen the forecasting of public finances (See Section B, below);
-    better management of public debt so as to make it possible to
determine the impact of investment decisions on Government
indebtedness (see Section B, below).



- 27 -
B.   PUBLIC FINANCES
1.   Diagnosis
83.       In recent years Senegal has made significant progress in restoring
its public finances. The deficit on state financial operations fell from
11.51 of GDP in 1980/81 to 2.3% in 1985/86 (an a commitments basis). This
improvement was essentially due to: (i) a reduction in the rate of growth of
expenditures, particularly for equipment and investment and to a certain
extent to better control of the growth of the civil service wage bill; and
(ii) the mobilization in 1985/86 of special receipts via the taxation of
certain imports for which world prices had declined.
84.       As a result of this approach, it has been increasingly more
difficult for Senegal to maintain and exploit its basic infrastructure, and in
investing. Under these circumstances, the possibilities for further reducing
the fiscal deficit and restoring public savings by limiting expenditure seem
limited; it would therefore be more appropriate in future to concentrate on
policies that will increase revenues.
2.   Objectives
85.       During this phase of the Adjustment Program, the Government's fiscal
policy, while pursuing the aim of short-term rehabilitation of public finances
and restoring public savings, will focus more on promoting the recovery of
economic activity and increasing public revenue. To this end, the Government
will concentrate on three main objectives:
(i)   increased tax and customs receipts;
(ii)    improved allocation and management of capital expenditure and
recurrent charges; and
Ciii)    better management of economic and financial information and enhanced
analytical forecasting capabilities as regards public finances.
The attainment of these objectives will enable Senegal to restore
public savings while eliminating the state's arrears to enterprises and
financial institutions. These savings will, to an increasing extent, be used
to finance the public investment program and provide a reliable source of
funds for the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) to service external debt.
3. Action Program
3.1  Mobilization of revenues
Higher receipts are expected to be derived essentially from customs
and tax reforms.



- 28 -
(a) Customs reform
An action plan to increase the proceeds from customs duties has been
prepared; receipts are expected to inicrease as a result of changes in tariffs
and the Customs Code, and through the restructuring of services.
Overall, the program is intended to increase the yield frou customs
duties and to safeguard economic agents in Senegal in an environment of
healthy competition.
The measures to be taken to achieve these objectives revolve around:
1.   The crstoms tariff, which was reformed by a law passed in August
1986 in order to make it consistent with new economic policy orientations.
With the widening of the base, this reform should increase the volume of
receipts despite the reduction in import duty rates resulting from the
rationalization of the protection system.
2. The new customs code, which will be submitted to the National
Assembly before June 30, 1987, features:
-    strengthening of the authority of the customs service;
-    stricter application of customs procedures in order to better
regulate the economy;
-    heightened efficiency and application of customs procedures as part
of a campaign against fraud;
-    organization of cooperation between the customs service and other
Government agencies; and
-    special measures concerning foreign exchange.
3. The computerization of customs procedures, in progress since 1986,
is an essential element in improving the system. It will permit stricter
application of customs regulations, the installation of a data bank and
swifter collection of customs charges.
In addition, the customs service has undertaken:
-    a revision of duties on imported materials in the context of the
execution of procurement contracts financed by external funds;
-    a revision of the system of granting exemptions;
-    a study on reference prices including an action program to modify
their field of application to be announced before the end of
December 1987;



- 29 -
-    correction of the distortions deriving from the 1986 reform of
customs duties. A provision for the purpose has been submitted to
the National Assembly.
(b) Reform of the General Tax Code
The principal objective of the reform is to stimulate economic
recovery while increasing tax receipts by widening the tax base and improving
controls.
A number of measures have been taken to increase tax revenue under
the new tax code, including:
-    introduction of a flat-rate minimum tax on individuals;
-    upward revision of the scale of benefits in kind;
-    raising of the rate of flat-rate minimum tax on companies, etc.; and
-    reform of state ownership (sale of state-owned lands).
It is planned to increase registration duty revenue in various ways,
e.g. by raising the fixed-duty rates, narrowing the scope of exemptions, etc.
It is also planned to convert specific indirect taxes into ad valorem taxes
and to strengthen control measures and increase penalties. The reorganization
and computerization of the General Directorate of Taxation will also be
pursued.
The establishment of a register to increase the revenue from the
land tax will be effective from January 1, 1989, after the essential studies
have been made, tax lists published and computerization of the system
implemented.
The reinstatement of nonstandard systems following the revision of
the Investment Code will help to improve receipts.
The reform will be undertaken according to a previously established
timetable which is attached as an annex. The second phase of the reform will
in particular incorporate generalized application of the VAT, effective from
1990 onwards. A study on this issue will be initiated at the end of 1987 or
the beginning of 1988. Such a reform presupposes general application of
standard accounting procedures in the commercial sector. It is also planned
to introduce a comprehensive income tax (IGR) in 1989 on the basis of studies
which will begin in January 1987.
3.2 Improved allocation and management of expenditures
The purpose of this component of the program is to improve the
availability and quality of public services. To this end, the Government has
decided to curb the growth of the Jr,,ge bill while at the same time seeking to
raise the motivation of Government employees, improve procurement arrangements



- 30 -
for the execution of equipment and infrastructure expenditure, rationalize the
provision of subsidies to enterprises in view of the Government's disengagement
policy and the reform of the parapublic sector (to reduce its size), and
finally to improve management of the public debt.
(a) Controlling the number of employees and the wage bill
Mi)    Reduction of the wage bill as a component of budgetary expenditure
means limiting the ratio of personnel costs to current expenditures (including
interest actually paid on the debt) to:
52% in 1987/88;
51% in 1988/89; and
49% in 1989/90.
(ii)    For fiscal 1988, the total number of civil service personnel
(permanent staff and contract personnel) will be held at the June 30, 1987
level, i.e. 68,000 persons.
(iii)    These objectives will be achieved by not replacing all retirees and
by limiting intakes into the training schools, thus by a reduction of staff.
In view of the projected numbers of retirees and the smaller training intakes,
it will be possible to keep the size of the civil service under control.
(iv)    Encouraging the voluntary departure of civil servants and state
employees into the private sector through the introduction of a redeployment
fund and the preparation of incentives to voluntary departure. Proposals will
also be studied to improve the system of financial and non-financial
incentives for civil servants and state employees (end of March 1988).
(v)    Strengthening personnel management through checking the payroll by
physical verification to identify civil servants and state employees who are
in an irregular situation (April 1987); computerization of civil service
personal records to improve personnel administration, identify employees
eligible for early retirement and facilitate staff redeployment (end of June
1988); and restructuring of the central payroll service by improving budgetary
and management control (end of June 1988).
(b) Improved procurement arrangements for equipment and infrastructure
expenditure
(i)    The Government will study and implement measures designed to improve
the granting and execution of Government contracts and to ensure that the
legislation in force governing payment periods is respected, in order to avoid
a recurrence of the arrears problem (June 1987).
Cii)    In addition, a plan will be developed for the settlement of arrears
owed by the state to the private sector (July 1987).



- 31 -
(iii)    Measures are also envisaged for the consolidation of the investment
budget, at least as regards financing already obtained, along with steps to
improve the execution of the consolidated investment budget, including
completion of the computerized system for the management and monitoring of
public investment (June 1987).
(c) Provision of subsidies to enterprises
(i)    Examination of the possibility of converting indirect subsidies into
budget subsidies.
(ii)    Harmonization of the program to reduce subsidies to public
enterprises with the public service tasks as defined in the program contracts
and terms of reference (June 1987).
(d) Public debt management
(i)    An increase in budget transfers to the CAA to increase its resources
during fiscal 1987/88 and 1988/89.
(ii)    Integration of the computerized system for managing and monitoring
medium and long-term external debt by completing the compilation of on-lent
loan proceeds, and monitoring of drawdowns (end of June 1987) and debt service
payments actually made so as to permit calculation of the outstanding debt and
the arrears (end of November 1987); computerized data compilation and tracking
of donations and grants from external public sources (end of December 1987);
computerized data compilation and tracking of loans to the state from domestic
banks and enterprises, including a survey of drawdowns and payments made, so
as to permit calculation of the outstanding debt and arrears (June 1988);
integration of systems for tracking external debt, donations and grants, and
the domestic debt (June 1988).
(iii)    Computerized issuance of payment orders to service the medium and
long-term external debt (June 1987).
(iv)    Compilation of non-comoitted balances on completed or frozen
projects, and preparation of proposals for using these funds (September 1987).
(v)    Limitation of the state's guarantee for private investments to
exceptional cases.
3.3 Information management, analysis and forecasting
The measures taken in this area essentially involve improvement of
the conditions for collecting, processing and using economic information and
enhancing the Senegalese administration's capability for analytical
forecasting.
(a) Economic and financial statistics
The efforts at this level will aim at making the economic and
financial information system more efficient in order to permit monitoring and
evaluation of the policies applied.



- 32 -
The steps taken will include:
the preparation of provisional economic accounts for 1982-86 in
current prices (February 1988) and constant prices (April 1988);
the establishment of a permanent system of administrative statistics
based on existing and planned records (December 1988);
updating and effective application of Law ,6-59 on rationalization
of the statistical data circuits (October 1988);
the establishment of a program o improve the foreign trade
statistics (December 1988);
-    the preparation of a proposal for national household budget and
consumption survey (October 1987).
(b) Analytical forecasting
(i)    In-depth functional and economic analysis of recurrent expenditures,
including budget subsidies, designed to link the allocation of budgetary
resources to structural adjustment program priorities and establishment of a
permanent information system enabling the monitoring of these expenditures
(March 1988).
(ii)    Implementation of a multiyear forecasting model (three years
minimum) for public finances, so as to provide a framework for deciding
allocations between recurrent charges and capital expenditure, and to allow
for the impact of the investment program on the public finances (June 1988).
VI.       THE SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
86.       The implementation of the Adjustment Program in recent years has
undoubtedly contributed to reducing macroeconomic imbalances while
simultaneously creating favorable conditions for the recovery of economic
activity and employment. Nonetheless, an examination of the current financial
situation indicates the need to pursue policies to control domestic demand and
reduce distortions in the incentives system. These policies may in the short
term have an adverse impact on certain socioeconomic groups.
87.       The Government is therefore concerned about the temporary costs of
the adjustment process for the poorest groups, such as workers in the private
and parapublic industry sector and the civil service. It is indeed possible
that in the short term, as a result of the crisis now affecting Senegal's
economy, the position of private sector workers will deteriorate further as a
consequence of the decline in tariff protection. Likewise, the employment and
living standards of public sector workers will also be impacted by strict
control of expenditure and the policy of state disengagement.
88.       The Government has already implemented specific policies directed at
certain population groups and has also taken steps designed to facilitate the



- 33 -
redeployment of workers who have lost their jobs. A redeployment fund has
been established which will provide assistance in the form of loans to
parapublic sector employees (made redundant by the rural development
corporations) to set up businesses on their own account.
89.       Reinsertion Fund.  The Government has decided to expand the existing
fund to cover the entire range of adjustment-related needs. A ministerial
working group has accordingly been set up under the aegis of the Minister of
State and Secretary General of the Office of the President to determine the
operating procedures of this single fund. The Government has decided to
allocate a minimum of US$5 million for this fund, which will be operationaL
before the end of 1987.
90.       Meanwhile the pricing polic  in the agriculture sector is intended
to bring about food self-sufficiency and to permit a redistribution of income
that is aore favorable to farmers. It should also be noted that the
progressive rehabilitation of the public finances over the next few years will
basically be carried out by increasing receipts, which will make it possible
to reduce the tax burden by lowering tax rates for the lowest-income groups.
Likewise, as part of the review of expenditure planned under the adjustment
program, specific actions will be taken to improve the quality of public
services in basic sectors such as education and health.
91.       It is in this context that the Government's decision to evaluate
more precisely the social impact of the adjustment process should be located.
To this end, the Government has, in particular, expressed its desire to
participate in the project that the World Bank plans to carry out, with UNDP
support, as part of the Fourth Regional Program for Africa. This project is
designed to evaluate the social dimension of structural adjustment programs at
the regional level, the aim being to devise specific programs to alleviate the
impact of adjustment on the least privileged socioeconomic groups.
92.       In line with the provisions of the United Nations Programme of
Action for African Economic Recovery and Development, the Government of
Senegal attaches the highest importance to formulation of consistent
population policies within the framework of its adjustment policy.
93.       To this end, it has already organized the necessary institutional
framework, prepared programs and undertaken various actions designed to
provide a better understanding of the factors of significance for
interpretation of the changes observed in this field.
94.       Thus the Government has formed an Interministerial Council chaired
by the Chief of State to formulate and monitor the implementation of the
population policy. The technical preparation for the Council's work is
performed by the National Population Commission (CONAPOP), which is
coordinated by the Minister of Planning and Cooperation.
95.       The mandate presently assigned to CONAPOP is:
-    to conduct an analysis of the current population situation in
relation to the food, health and education problems;



- 34 -
to evaluate the impact of demographic growth on the satisfaction of
needs;
to study the effect of the growth of the population on the country's
long-term development;
to suggest amendments to current legislation to adapt it better to
the present-day situation;
finally, to propose to the Government a consistent population policy
and specific means for its implementation.
96.       To ensure the proper execution of the decisions that will be taken
in regard to population policy, CONAPOP may call on any individual,
organization or agency whose opinions may be of use to it in the performance
of its task.
For the Government of the Republic of Senegal
The Minister of Planning and Cooperation
s/Cheikh Hamidou Kane
Original in French signed
Annexes: Action Plans



ACTION PLANS
A. INCENTIVES IN AGRICULTURE
1.   Cereals Plan
CSA
-    Setting up of price information system                 July 1, 1987
-    Completion of action plan on CSA                       December 31, 1987
-    Implementation                                         April 1988
Semi-artisanal processing
-    Evaluation of performance of five units                April 30, 1988
-    Setting up of 20-30 units                              1988, 1989, 1990
-    Operation of pilot industrial processing
plant (500)                                          Begin April 1987
Promotion of local grains
Launching of special extension programs                Begin 1988/89 season
Sale of improved seed at cost price                    Begin 1988/89 season
Pricing policy
-    Prices and incentives study                            Begin April 1987
Results: August 1987
-    Adoption of action plan                                October 31, 1987
2.   Groundnut subsector
-    Completion of marketing cost study                     December 1987
-    Elimination of seed exchange subsidy                   1988/89 season
-    Start of SONACOS audit                                 August 1, 1987
-    Implementation of SONACOS action plan                  March 1988
3. Decontrol of inputs
-    Gradual reduction of subsidy on fertilizers            F 16/kg, 1987188
F 81kg, 1988189
F 0/kg thereafter



2-
Decontrol of imported compound fertilizers              1989/90 season
Completion of report on execsition of previous
fertilizer programs                                  December 31, 1987
4. Agriculture credit
Comparative study of existing programs                 October 1987
Completion of study on financial
situation of CNCAS                                   July 30, 1987
Implementation of action plan on farm credit           1988
5. Agricultural Diversification
Horticulture
* Subsector study:  Results                            September 30, 1987
* Adoption of action plan for horticulture             December 31, 1987
Senegal River Region
* Exploratory study - Terms of Reference               May 1987
* Conducting of study                                  June 30, 1987
Diversification of rSRA research program                June 1987
SPRIISRA cooperation agreements                        October 1987
6. Strengthening of MDR
Project appraisal                                      March 1987
Implementation                                         From April 1987
7. Land tenure
Completion of review of existing regulations           December 31, 1987
Establishment of procedures for fixing fees
to recover a part of the investment cost             March 1988
8. Livestock
Livestock action plan                                   June 1987
Implementation of action plan                          December 31, 1988
Decontrol of domestic meat prices                       June 1987
Cancellation of SERAS monopoly on skins                 Drafting:  June 1987
and hides (Decree)                                    Effective:
December 31, 1987
Reorganization of SODESP                                October 30, 1987



-3-
B. INCENTIVES IN INDUSTRY
1. Protection system
Tariff and product-specific Codes
Submission of the 1988/89 Tariff
to the National Assembly                             April 1988
Preliminary draft of study on product-specific
codes prepared by Customs Directorate                September 1987
Finalization of study                                  December 1987
Submission to the Assembly of Law revising
the product-specific codes                           April 1988
Lifting of quantitative restrictions                        As per schedule
Reference price study
-    Findings presented                                     May 1987
-    Action Plan                                            September 1987
2. Review of export incentives
-    Evaluation of the export subsidy system                September 1987
-    Evaluation of the drawback system                       September 1987
3. Studies on enterprise conventions
-    Findings presented                                     April 1987
-    Adoption of action plan                                 September 1987
4. Review of the Investment Code
-    Draft version                                          April 1987
-    Final draft                                            May 1987
-    Submission to the National Assembly                    July 1987



-4-
5. Setting up of a "One-Stop Window" system (guichet unique)
Submission of draft version                            April 1987
Adoption of draft                                       July 1987
System implementation                                  August 1987
6. Performance Chart for monitoring industrial reform
Set-up of system                                       May-June 1987
Definition of operating procedures                     September 1987
System Implementation                                  December 1987



- 5 -
C. REFORM OF TRADE SECTOR
Reform of distribution system
-    Greater deregulation of distribution by
removing wholesale/retail distinction                April 1987
-    Amendment of Decree 76-018 of January 6, 1976
and of Order 962 of February 9, 1986
to allow free movement of certain
products throughout Senegal                          April 1987
Elimination of control of industrial
prices in competitive sectors
-    Publication of decrees to lift price
controls in tandem with removal of
quantitative restrictions                            April 1987
Regulations on fair competition
-    Law regulating competition
* Preliminary version                                  May 1987
* Final draft                                          June 1987
* Approval of draft                                    July 1987
* Submission to the National Assembly                  September 1987
Importer-exporter card
-    Publication of decrees simplifying
approval procedures                                  Nay 1987
Export promotion agencies
-    Implementation of SENPRO Committee
recommendations                                      July 1987
-    Organization of round tables for further
simplification of export formalities                 June-September 1987
-    Action program for simplification of formalities       November 1987
-    Strengthening of CICES:
Consultants to start work                           April 1987
Report                                              June 1987
Adoption of action program                          September 1987



-6-
Restructuring of ASACE:
* Draft version                                       April 1987
* Final Report                                        June 1987
. Adoption of action program                          September 1987
Quality control and standardization
-    Organization of round tables with representatives
of the Food Technology Institute (ITA), the
Senegalese Standarization Institute (ISN), and
the Food and Applied Nutrition Service (SANAS)      April-June 1987
-    Setting up of an action plan                           October 1987



D. PROMOTION OF EMPLOYMENT
1.   Improvement in the functioning of the labor market
(flexibility, autonomy, etc.)
Submission to the Assembly of a law to
eliminate monopoly on placement and
facilitate renewal of fixed-term labor
contracts                                           June 1987
Publication of decrees                                July 1987
2.   Evaluation of efficiency level of
Labor Department
Finalization of study                                 May 1987
Implementation of reforms                             October 1987
3.  Study on links between labor productivity
and wages
Finalization of study                                 Nay 1987
Discussion and adoption of study                      July-August 1987
recomnmndations
4.   Study of reforms of the system of financing
employer welfare contributions
Finalization of study                                 September-Oct. 1987
Discussion and adoption of study
recommendations                                     Nov. 1987-June 1988
5.   Study on worker's participation
in equity and profit-sharing
Finalization  of study                                September-Oct. 1987
Discussion and adoption of study
recommendations                                     Nov. 1987-June 1988
6.   Extension of Redeployment Fund
to all sectors
Design of operating procedures for
the fund                                            May-September 1987
Startup                                               October 1987



7. Industrial Restructuring Fund
Design of operating procedures                         April-September 1987
Setting up of fund                                     December 1987
Startup                                                January 1988



- 9 -
III. REFORM OF THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
1. Strengthening management of the reform Process
Adoption of GESP and CCP strengthening plans           June 30, 1987
2. Divestiture by the State
Selection of EPICs to be liquidated or
privatized (CEREEQ, ITA, among others)               December 31, 1987
Choice of procedure for disengagement
and offering for sale of shares in first
batch of 10 mixed-capital companies in
(SEMs) to be privatized                              September 30, 1987
Change legal status of INDR, INSEPS
and CNQP                                             December 31, 1987
Presentation of final report on liquidation
up of 7 SEMs and 2 EPICs (see list)
approved by CVCCEP                                   Decemoer 31, 1987
Selection of second batch of SEMs
(10 to 17) to be privatized                          December 31, 1987
3. PE Rehabilitation
*Conversion into National Companies
-    PAD                                               June 30 1987
-    OHLM                                              December 31, 1987
Signature of program-contracts
SENELEC, SOMIVAC, OPCE, OHLM
and renewal for SOTRAC and SAED                 1987
RCFS, SONATRA, PAD, SONACOS/SEIB,
ORTS and renewal for SONEES                     1988
Implementation of Rehabilitation Plans
BNDS, SICAP, DAKAR-MARINE                         1987
*   ORTS, CNTDS                                        1988
Management audits
CSS, CPSP, APS, SOFISEDIT, CNCAS,
SAPCO, SRS, CSPT, SNSS, SNPC,
SIDEC, COSEC, PAD, ONAC, SEPFA                  December 31, 1987



- 10 -
Dissemination of organization chart                     June 1, 1987
Adoption of procedures and timetable
for progressive elimination of
a priori control                                June 30, 1987
4. Financial Relations between State and Public Enterprises
Reduction of subsidies to parapublic
sector enterprises                             1986/87 - 51 on 85/86
1987/88 - 15% on 85/86
1988/89 - 301 on 85/86
1989/90 - 501 on 85/86
-    Table reconciling State financial commit-
ments under program-contracts with available
or mobilizable resources and start of system
to monitor financial transactions under
program-contracts                                     June 30, 1987
-    Setting up of forecasting modules of
Farapublic sector information system                  December 31, 1987
-    Settlement of reciprocal debts as of
June 30, 1985 with non-financial
enterprises
-    Arbitration of disputed claims                     May 15, 1987
-    Settlement of cross-arrears and timetable
for settlement of net positions with
enterprises accounting for 801 of
the total                                       July 31, 1987
-    Settlement of cross-arrears and
timetable for settlement of net
positions with the remaining PEs                October 1, 1987
Settlement of reciprocal debts with
non-financial enterprises (July 1,
1985 to June 30, 1986:
compilation and reconciliation of claims              June 30, 1987
-    arbitration of disputed claims                     August 1, 1987
-    definitive situation and timetable for
settlement of net positions for all
enterprises                                        October 1, 1987



- 11 -
5. Legal and institutional framework
Submission to National Assembly of now law on
parapublic sector and implementing decrees           July 1987
Complementary study on Control Bodies
--   Terms of reference                                June 30, 1987
-.   Commencement of study                             October 31, 1987
-    Adoption of action plan                           March  31, 1988
Study on Boards of Directors
-    Presentation of report                            June 30, 1987
--   Adoption o¶ action plan                           September 30, 1987



- 12 -
IV. PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
A. PUBLIC INVESTMENT
Review by Conseil Sup6rieur du Plan of
proposals for reforming the planning system           June 30, 1987
Prospective study on long-term development
-    terms of reference                                 June 30, 1987
-    report                                             June 30, 1988
Decentralization of project identification
and preparation to the rural development,
water supply, public works, industry,
educationand health sectors                          March 31, 1988
Manual for project appraisal                            June 30, 1987
Dissemination of periodic series of prices
and deflators used in project analysis                December 31, 1987
Document defining projects selection
criteria and tools and operating pro-
cedures of Project Selection Committee                June 30, 1987
Implementation of the computerized
monitoring system for physical and
financial execution of public investments             June 30, 1987
Proposals for improving project execution               September 30, 1987
Preliminary version of improved PTIP for
1988/1989-1990/91                                    December 31, 1987



- 13 -
B. PUBLIC FINANCES
1. Mobilization of receipts
(a) Customs receipts
-    Submission of new Customs Code
to National Assembly                                     June 30, 1987
Computerization customs clearance
procedure:
-    drafting of specifications and detailed
studies on bidding procedures                      June 30, 1987
--   application for manifest system                       June 30, 1988
application for other systems                         December 31, 1988
Reorganization of structures of Customs Service,
review of customs personnel regulations,
implementation of a training program                     June 30, 1987
(b) Tax receipts
Implementation of first phase of tax reform
-   application of new General Tax Code                  April 30, 1987
application of taxation of public contracts
financed with external loans                         July 1, 1987
-    application of the law on reform of State
Property Code                                        April 30, 1987
Preparation and implementation of second
phase of tax reform
-    general application of VAT in trade sector
* start of study                                     beginning of 1988
- completion of study
* general introduction of simplified
* accounting plan
. implementation                                     end of 1990
-    following study, implementation of compre-
hensive income tax with elimination of
the scheduled tax system
* start of study                                     January 1987
* completion of study
* implementation                                     end of 1989



- 14 -
establishment of a land tax register
for the Dakar Urban Conimunity
* feasibility study
* computerization
* publication of tax rolls
*  implementation                                 January 1, 1989
Computerization of turnover tax (TVA)
*  initiation                                     June 30, 1987
* finalization
Reorganization of DGID structures                       January 31, 1988
2.   Improved allocation and management of expenditures
(a) Management of Civil Service
- olding size of total civil service personnel
numbers (permanent and contract staff) at
June 30, 1987 level (68,000)                          1987-88
Reduction of Civil Service wage bill as a               1987-48 - 522
percentage of operating expenditure                   1988-89 - 512
(including interest actually paid on public debt)   1989/90 - 492
Proposals for improving the system of finan-
cial and nonfinancial incentives for civil
servants and public sector employees                  March 31, 1988
Strengthening of personnel management
-    personnel audit                                    end April 1987
--   reorganization of central payroll service          end June 1988
-    rehabilitation  of DFP procedures and -
computerization of central civil service
records                                         end September 1988
(b) Expenditures on materials and equipment
Following study, proposals to improve award
of government contracts                               December 31, 1987
Implementation of computerized monitoring of
execution of consolidated public invest-
ment budget                                           June 30. 1987
(c) Subsidies to enterprises
Following study, proposals on the possibility
ofeliminating and/or converting indirect
subsidies into budget subsidies                       end September 1987



- 15 -
Implementation of a system for monitoring
budget subsidies, including examination
of the possibility of functional classi-
fication of budget subsidies                          end March 1988
(d) Settlement of State arrears
Annual targets for settlement of State
arrears                                               June 1987 (acc. to
1ff Standby
Arrangement)
(e) Public Debt Management
Increase budget subsidies to
Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAM)                     1987/88-1lO
1988/89-101
Implementation of computerized system
for monitoring medium and long-term
guaranteed and on-lent external debt
execution of actual payments                       November 30, 1987
automatize issue of payment
orders and receipts, payment
schedules and statements of
amounts payable                                  September 30, 1987
Computerize administration of external
grants and subtidies from external
public sources
-    compilation                                         December 31, 1987
-    execution of planned and actual operations          June 30, 1988
Computerization of domestic public debt
-    compilation                                         December 31, 1987
-    execution of planned and actual operations          June 30, 1988
Integration of public debt data-processing
chain                                                  June 30, 1988
Compilation of uncommitted balances from
completed or frozen projects and proposals
for utilization                                        September 1987
3. Information and Economic and Financial Forecasting
(a) Economic statistics
-    Preparation of provisional national accounts



- 16 -
--   Proposed methodology                               September 1987
-    Gathering, analysis and use of CUCI
data (1982-1986)                                 Deceniber 1987
-    Establishment of financial accounts
for the public administrations
(1981/82 - 1985/86)                                December 1987
-    Completion of provisional national
accounts for 1982-86
* in current prices                                end February 1988
* in constant prices, and documentation            end April 1988
Implementation of a permanent system of
administrative statistics
-    inventory of existing and planned records
--   determination of nomenclatures
-    implementation of system                           end December 1988
Surveys
-    prepare a proposal for national household
budget and consumption survey                    end October 1987
-    conduct two light surveys nu
informal sector                                  end December 1988
Establishment of TEE for 1986                           end March 1988
Updating and application of Law 66-59
specifying and rationalizing the
statistical information circuits                      end October 1988
Implementation of program to improve
foreign trade statistics                              end December 1988
Review of work of Statistics Department
-    compilation of needs of main users                 October 1987
-    adaptation of work program                         end January 1988
(b)  Analysisandorecastin
Functional and economic analysis of
public current expenditures                           end March 1988
Implementation of a system of multi-year
programming of public finances                          June 30, 1988



- p7 -
V. FINANCIAL SYSTEM
1.  Rehabilitation of the Banks
USB -     Execution of rehabilitation plan
after approval by monetary authorities          1987-88
BCS -     Execution of rehabilitation plan after
approval by monetary authorities                1987-88
BNDS -    . Submiasion to monetary authorities              April 30, 1987
Execution after approval by
monetary authorities                          1987-88
2. Reform of Intermediation System
(a) Financial policies
-    Study on banking system ready                          April 1987
-    Examination of study's recommendations and
possible adoption of an action plan                  April-December 1987
-    Increase banks' minimum capital
requirement to CFAF 1 billion                          December 1987
-    Reduction of TPS on credit interest                    Entry into force of
new Tax Code
-    Evaluation of the system and of the level
of TPS on interest payable on basis of
analysis of the fiscal impact of the tax reform      End of fiscal 1987188
(b) Relationship between Monetary authorities
and Primary Banks
-    Measures to improve control over major banks
by the Banking Control Cc3mission                      June 30, 1987
-    Training and computerization program for
Direction de la Monnaie et du Credit                   Under way



PopuLation: 6.6 million  (mld*1985)                                                                                                                                       ANNEX   V
GNP per capita: £370 (19a5)                                                                                                                                               Pa"  1 of 3
LONG TERM PROJECTIONS
.................................................................................................................................      ............  .................  ........ .
Amount - 1985               -.-.-.-.A..ual growth rate (1). .-.                                                     -
(million USS                                                 ctual   a/                                               Projected
Indicator                           at current                                           -                  ...  .   .                           -.-..    ...........
prices)                   1981        1982        1983        .914        1985        19b6                   1987        1PM         1989        1990
......................................................................................................                                             .................................................................................................................................
NATIONAL ACCoUNr
Cross domstic prockwt                     2564                    *0.7        15.1         2.7         4.6         3.8         4.6                    3.5         3.5         3.6         3.5
Agriculture                              487                    -5.7       24.8         4.9       -18.9         8.0         9.8                     4.8        6.4         4.4         3.4
Irtustry                                735                     5.6        15.0         2.3        *1.8         2.0         4.0                     3.5        3.5         4.3         3.4
Services                               1342                    *1.6        11.7         2.1        *0.1         1.2         4.4                     3.0        2.4         2.9         3.7
Con sq2tion                               2534                     3.6         9.8         0.6        -6.2         7.0        *0.4                    0.5         2.8         3.8         3.8
Gross Investment                           351                     2.9         5.6         5.6        2.4        12.0         S5                   `13.5         3.7         3.8         3.7
Exports of GNFS                            801                      1.3        4.8         9.8        -7.2       12.7        19.9                    8.7         3.6         2.0         2.2
Imports of CGFS                           1123                    11.1        '4.4         3.8         9.3        *6.8         3.0                    3.6         2.2         2.?         3.0
Gross national savings                       25                 '138.4        47.1        32.7        30.5       -98.4
................................................................................ ....................................................................................................................... .................................
PRICES
GOP deflator  (197IM 100)                                        119.8       131.2       142.2       161.0       175.9       189.1
Exchange  rate (CFAF/S)                                          211.7       328.6       381.1       437.0      449.3       346.3
........................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................. 
Share of GOP at market prices (M)                                      Average annual  increase (X)
( at current prices)                                               (at constant 1979 prices)
....................................                                 ...................................................................... ................................
1970        1980        19aS       1990        1995               1970-fS   1975-88   1980-85   1          -90  1990-95
....       ....        ....        .....  ....                      ........  ........  ..... .. .. ........ ...... ..... ........  .....
Gross domestic preduct                               100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0                     1.9         0.6        3.3         3.7         3.5
Agriculture                                        24.1         19.1        19.0       20.7        20.7                     3.2         3.9         1.8        5.7         3.4
Industry                                           21.5        24.9        28.6        26.0        27.0                     3.2         2.2        4.5         3.7         4.1
ServIes                                           54.4        56.0        52.4        53.3        52.3                     0.8         1.9         3.3        3.0         3.1
Consuption                                            88.9       100.5        98.3        88.5        88.3                     1.8        3.9         2.0         2.1         3.7
Gross Investment                                      15.7        15.5        13.?        15.2        14.6                    3.0        '4.6         0.2         5.9         3.2
Exports of ChFS                                       27.4        28.7        31.3        28.0       25.7                      1.0       -3.2         1.7         7.1         2.7
Imports of CNFS                                       32.0        44.7        43.8       31.7        28.8                      1.4        2.0         1.5         2.9         3.1
1981        1982       1983        1984        1965        1986                               1981        1986
... .... ....................  .....   . .....  .....   ......  .....            .......                    .....
PUBLIC FINANCE    b/                                             (billions of current CFA francs)                                                       (as X of GDP)
CUrrent  expenditure                                    169        182         215         206         220         232                               25.2        17.9
Revesue                                                126         152         176         187         204         219                               16.8        16.9
Surplus I*) or deficit (1                              '43         -30         .39         .19         *16         -13                               -6.4        -1.0
Capital  expenditure                                     38          31          39          40         35          34                                 5.7        2.6
Srplus or deficit                                       -81         -61         -78         -59        -51         -47                               12.1         3.6
/  The 1982 85 figures  re provisional.                                                                                                                                  MAiDS
b/ Fiscal years endin  June 30th.                                                                                                                                   Febnary 1987



Population: 6.4 million (mid-1984)                                                                                                            ANN4EX  V
CMP per capita: US, 370 (1985)                                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
EXTERNAL TRADE
................   ,4....... .......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amount   1985                                Annual growth rates (z) at constant prices .-.----.
(million USS                               Actual el                                          Projected
indicator                        at current                  --- --------------
prices)              1981      1982     1983      1984      1985    19B6 b    1987        1988     1989      1990
.............................  ................................   .......................................................................................................... .................................................
EXTERNAL TRADE c/
..............
Merchandise exports                      481               '0.8       14.1     23.1      -8.0    -20.6       29.2      12.0      4.2        i.7      2.0
primary                               210               -31.8      97.5      13.0    *21.9    -22.9       28.8      19.5       4.5       0.1       0.2
petroleum                              87               -18.2      12.6    -17.5       -2.9    -10.0       -8.0      8.3       3.8       3.1       3.0
others                                184                41.1      -9.8      98.3      17.3    -21.2      44.2       4.5       3.6       3.7       4.1
Merchandise Inports                     898                 3.2      -1.9       8.4    -11.5       -8.1       3.3       4.1       1.7      2.3        2.9
Food anci Beverages                   256                48.6       8.6       3.5       9.8      11.9     -4.6      -0.2      -1.2      °0.9       0.6
Petroleum                             195                 8.9       6.6       3.3      12.2    -12.2    -14.4       18.5       2.8       4.4       4.4
Machiner-y ard equipment              115                -7.3       8.6       7.6    -33.1        1.4       4A4      0.4       2.5       2.8       2.7
Others                                332                *7.9      12.0      13.3    -24.3    -22.4        22.1       2.1      3.0        3.7      3.1
PRICES
Export price irdex (1979u100)                             140.3    145.4    158.2    Inf.9    201.1    174.6    176.3    185.8    194.7    203.8
leport price Index (1979=100)                             135.5    144.7    160.7    188.?    198.4    169.8    175.2    184.8    191.8    198.5
Term of trade Index (1979Z200)                            103.5    100.5       98-4    103.8    101.4    102.6    100.6    10035    101.5    102.7
............ ............................ ........... ............. ,........ ... ,   .................................................................................................I............................... .. ... .
Composition of Merchandise Trade tX)                           Average Anrual Increase (K)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1979 prices)
.......... ...............................................................  ...........................
1975      1980     1985      1990      199S                      1980-85  1985-90  1990-9f
.....    .....    .....      ...       .....                       .......  .......  . ....
Exports                               100.0    100.0    100.3    100.0    100.0                              0.4       9.4        2.9
PrImary                              70.5      52.4      43.7      40.4      38.4                         -1.8      10.1       1.4
petroleum                             7.0      18.7      18.1      11.6      12.9                         -7.8       La        3.0
Others                               22.5      28.9      38.5      46.0      48.7                          9.5      10.9       4.5
lmports                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                             -1.8       2.a       3.0
Food and Beverages                   23.3      19.0      26.5      21.6      18-i                         15.6      -1.3       1.1
Petrolets                            12.0      25.0      21.?      19.2     23.0                           3.6       2.6       4.3
machinery and equipment              18.4      14.3      12.8      13.1      12.5                         -6.0       2.6       2.8
Others                               46.3      41.7      37.0      46.1      46.4                        -11.6       6.5       3.7
.................................    .....................................................................  .,.......,. ^............................. ... ... .
Share of trade with                    Share of traed with                    Share of trade with
Industrial countries (1)               Developing countries (K)              Oil Exporting Countries (X)
1975     1980      1985                1975      1980      1985               1975      1980      1985
DIRECTION OF TRADE
...................
Exports                                66.4      50.1      46.3                20.0      38.2      25.0                          2.4       0.5
Imports                                67.1      6o.6      65.7                11.5     36.9      29.9                 4.1      18.1      13.2
a/ Provisional.
b/ Estimates.                                                                                                                                        A209
c/ Exports  F.O.B.; lIports, CI.F                                                                                                               February 1987



AN.FEX V
Pop.tation: 6.6 mi1irne   (Mid'19S)
GIP per capita: usS 370 (1981)                                                                                                           tage 3 of 3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTRiNAL CAPITAL AND 0EST
,                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~................................I...............
(milliwm of USS at current prices)
.............................................................. .......................................................................
Actual  a/                                          Projected
Indicator                          .
1981      1982      1983      19/       198e    1986 b    1987        1988      1989      1990      1995
. . .  .. . .........................   .. . . . . . . . . .      . . . . .............................................. I,.,....,,,,,,...,,,,,.....
BALANCE o0  PAIMENI
................ ...............  
Exports of goods  ad services           1009       907       934       934       815      51OO       1207      1317      1408      1507      2120
of whicht iletchuise f.o.b.            560       502       551       613       481       658       737       814       a"8        9Z9      1346
Taports of goods snd services           1638      1408      1406      1331      1213      1493      1601      1713      l181       1934      26'3
of which: ftrchadise t.a.b.           1D20       873       907       840       790       860       920        941     1048       1111      1562
Net private transters                    '10        5        .9         .5        17        26        27        28        29        31        42
Currant hcomut balance                  o639      '505      '481      '402      '451       '368      '367      -36e      *301       3ff      '55
Private direct investment                  5         5         2         -2        '3       2         '1         1         2         2         S
officiat Transfers                       177       l82       158       139        133       160       178       133       190       198       271
PLT loans (rnt)                          174       274       304       172        171       64        144       536       165       177       239
Disburseeents                          222       284       320       204       216       207       317       344       369       387        510
Aiortiaiton                            48         9        16        33        45       143       173       205       205        211       271
Other capital                            105       '70        36        91        Si        1           4 4       A         4         4         6
Oecrease In reserves                     178       114        53          2       99        '43        44        44        21        16        '9
Net foreign assets                                '514      '476      -470      '689
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT c/
............................
Oflicial trnsfers                        177       182       158       139       133       164        176       183       190       196       271
Coneessionsl loans                       1;1       107       168       139       145       18e        189      204       2t7        227       296
iAC                                     37        32        39        38        28        44        51        57        60         61        79
IDA                                     48        25        20        20        30        37        37        40        39        43        79
Other                                   66        54       109        81        86       101       101       107       117        123       138
Naeencessloal loans                       71       177       152        66        83        515       128       140       153       160       215
official export credits                 30       139        92        34        la        29        SO        61         71        7?       102
IERD                                    22         5        12         9         4         4         8        10        13         14        19
Other multiLateral                      13         9        34        13        1Z        16        14        16         18        19        30
Private                                  6        24        IS        10        50        64        56        53        51         50        63
External Debt                           1669      2119      2157      2245      Zo31      2605      230       3074      3301       3541      5188
Outstanding  nd disbursed             1004      1236      1496      1530      2003      2157      2301      2438      2602      2m         305
Official                             715       970      1287      1354      1745      1883      2031      2174      2337      2493      3469
of which: IDAIiBRD                223       244       269       290       322       357       397       437        479       523       746
Private                             289       266       209        176       254       274       270       262       265       285       336
Undisbursed                             45      U83        661       715       298       448       530       638       699        764      1383
of which: IDA/IBRD                   156       144       150       149       1SO
Debt service
Total service paycnts  df               89        43        57        84        89       246       289       325       325       337       431
el which: IDA/ISRD                     8        10        12        13        14        18        19        20        21        23        37
Interest on  ELI toans               42        34        41        SI        44        104       126       117       120       1Z6       160
Pamwnts as % of exports                9.0       4.8       6.2       9.1      11.1      22.7      27.0      27.7      25.7      24.8      22.3
Average interest rate eJ                 6.2       5.0       3.4       5.0       6.4
Average maturity  ej                    22.0      27.5      29.7      20.4      24.5
Average grace period (years) e/          6.1       7.1       7Q.        5.8       5.7
Average grant element Ct) el            28.0      40.1      52.0      35.8       30.1
.................... ;....................................................... I......................................................................................... ..........................................................
a/ The 192-85 figures are provisional.
b7 Est imte.
cr Pubiic and pbtAicty'Suaranteod MLt loans.
d  Excludec IMP repurchasfs.                                                                                                              WDO
e7 of (y loans



Annex VI
Senegal - Use of DfF Resources
(in millions of US dollars)
Purchases                            Repurchases /a
Extended   Compensatory             Structural
Financing   Financing               Adjustment
Facility    Facility      Standby   Facility   Total
1980    53.5                          2.7                 56.2        8.3
1981                   49.5          18.6                 68.1        7.5
1982                                 58.8                 58.8       14.7
1983                                 33.6                 33.8       11.2
1984                                 32.3                 32.3       [4.9
1985                                 56.5                 56.5       41.5
1986                                 39.7       21.0      60.7       61.6
1987                                                                 48.8
1988                                                                 45.9
1989                                                                 47.7
1990                                                                 40.2
1991                                                                 21.5
1992                                                                 13.1
1993                                                                  4.5
(a Projections of repurchases are based on outstanding purchases as of
December 31, 1986.



I                        ANNEX VII
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT - PROJECT SUMMARY
Basic Data:    Appraisal Departure:      June 15, 1987
Tentative Financing Plan:      IDA:        US$14.0 million
Government: USS 1.0 million
US$15.0 million
Possible cofinancing with UNDP and France
1.        Proiect Obiectives and  Design.  Within the  GOS public  adminis-
tration reform efforts, the project's principal objectives are to streng-
then core economic institutions and civil service management and to help
execute the SAP. Other important objectives are to: (i) study alternatives
for reforming civil service policy and for remunerating adequately key
government  staff;  (ii)  motivate  and  support  the  GOS  in   developing
non-goverrnent sources of  policy analysis; (iii)  develop economic  policy
and public sector management training programs; (iv) help the GOS to use
NGOs (IDRC, Ford Foundation) in institutional development efforts; to
better manage TA and to experiment with more effective TA delivery for
institutional development 'twinning". The project will be managed flexibly
through annual work programs within the long term objectives of each
component. In order to promote internalization of reform objectives and
procedures and sustain training efforts, recourse to long term or resident
foreign TA will be minimized and emphasis placed on developing alternative
modes for the provision of advisory services through short term missions
and mobilization of local expertise focused on specific needs. Each of the
components described below would be managed by a relevant institution  with
central administrative coordination by MPC. The management of the project
should also strengthen the GOS capacity to undertake subsequent phases of
public administration reform.
2.        Project Description:  The  project  will finance  TA  (local  and
foreign), equipment and materials and training to:
(a) Civil service management and reform: (i) strengthen the Ministry of
Civil Service and the Payroll Division of HEF to better manage the stock of
government employees; (ii) support a GOS commission to study and design
reforms on key civil service policy issues; (iii) support BOM to prepare
and deliver training on personnel management issues.
(b) Economic management and policy capacity: (i) support MEF and MPC to
pursue the reform of public expenditure and debt management; (ii) finance a
five year institutional development program of the Direction de 1k
Statistique,  through  "twinning" with   an  appropriate  outside   agency
(possibly INSEE); (iii) support a program to develop economic policy design
capacity within government (policy units in MPC and HEF) and outside
(stimulating policy research work and strengthening local consulting
capacity); and (iv) finance a Study Fund in MPC for short term advisory
services and studies linked to the SAP.
(c)  Government  procurement:   Finance   studies  and  implementat±on   of
recommendations   on   government   procurement   regulations   and   their
harmonization with donor guidelines, and rationalize the role of the
National Contract Commission (CNCA).
(d) Technical assistance management:   Strengthen MPC's capacity to  manage
technical assistance. UNDP is preparing a program for this and, if the GOS
agrees, may finance its implementation.



Annex VIII
SENESUL SAL III
Page (L)
Objectives                                Recent Developments and Progress                                 SAL III
_______________________________                                _under_SAL      11
I. Public Resource Management
I.a. Parapubilo Sector
Strengthening the management of, and
institutional setting (GESP and CCP) for
the parapublic sector reform (June 87).
Adoption by Government of list of                   Privatizatlon of a first group of 10
Reduce the size of the parapublic                  enterprises to be privatized or                      public/mixed enterprises (Sep. 87) and
sector and improve the efficiency,                 liquidated and elaboration of a                      identification of another group of 10-17
investment and savings performance                 methodology for privatization.                      PEs to be privatized (Dec. 87).
of the public enterprises, through:
Restructuring and disengagement of                  Liquidation of 9 structurally unprofitable
- disengagement of the State,                      RDAn.                                                SEMs and EPs (Dec. 87) and progressive
disengagement of 6 PEs.
- restructuring of speciflc                        Liquidation of 3 SEMs and 6 EPs.
enterprises,                                                                                          Implementation of a program of audits and
Merging of SOPIDAK-CSCE for export                  restructuring plans for several
- improving P.E. management and                    promotion.                                           enterprlses.
accountability, corporate
planning and internal control,                   Study of public enterprise tariff.                  Redefinition of the role and
responsibilities of public enterprise
- streamlining relations between                                                                        Boards of Directors (Sep. 87).
government and enterprlses and
improving transparency of                                                                             Implementation of actlon program to
financial relationships, and                                                                          strengthen enterprise internal corporate
planning, management control systems and
- reforming the government                                                                              financial accounting (from July 87).
institutional setting for
overseeing public enterprises                                                                         Subsidies to PEs to be reduced in 1787/88
5% reduction in direct subsidies to                 and n788/89 to 85% and 70% of 1985/86
PEs in 1986/87 compared to 1985/86.                 levels.  Transformation of indirect
subsidies into direct subsidies, whenever
possible (see page V).



SAL III
Page (ii)
Objectives                                 Recent Developments and Progress                                  SAL III
under SAL II
I.e. Parapublic Sector (contd.)                     Elaboration of contract-programs or                  Strengthening the process of preparing and
"Lettre de mission" for a ntmber of                  monitoring execution of contract-programs:
enterprises.  Seminar on experience                  agreed schedule of payment of Govt. finan-
with contract-programs.                              cial obligations (July 87); compliance with
financial obligations during first 6 months
FY87/88 (Nov. 88).
Information system to projece and monitor
Improvement of government sector data                financial flows between Gcovt. and PEs (Dec.
management and reporting, Including                  87).
computerized MIS with historical data
through Dec. 85.
Reconciliation of cross arrears between
Reconciliation of cross arrears                      Government and the manufacturing and
between government and public                        commercial public enterprises through June
enterprises through June 30, 1985.                   300 1986 and agreement to a settlement plan
(Oct. 87).
Acceptable plan to remove a priori controls
Study to improve system of government                over Etablis. Publics. by 1990 (July 87).
supervision over public enterprises.
Gouplementary study to reform system of
government supervision over PEs (Sep. 87).



SAL III
Page (ii)
Objectives                                  Recent Developments and Progress                                  SAL III
under SAL 11                                                                  -
I,b Public Investment Prograingin
Pre~iaration of a three year public                  Preparation and review by the Association
inv'estment program (1987/88-1989/90).               of a three year PIP for 1988/89-1990/91
Review of the program by the                         (Dec. 87).
Association.
To optimize allocation of external
and internal resources within a                     Preparation of a medium-tern action                  Submission to the Higher Planning CoUnCil
macroeconomic and sectoral                          plan to carry out the institutional                  of the proposal to reform  the planning
framework; increase absorptive                      reforms of the planning, programing                  system (June 87).
capacity of investment; improve                     and budgeting of public investment.
evaluation, selection and budgeting                                                                      Completion of project appraisal guide (June
of projects and evaluation of                       Improved financLal supervision of                    87).
recurrent expenditure; and                          investment program and extension of
strengthet supervision of project                   debt monitoring system to project                    Transfer of responsibilities for project
execution.                                          level.                                               identification and preparation to technical
ministries in Rural Development, Water
Supply, Equipment, Education an4 Health
(March 88).
Docment defining project selection
criteria and methods and operating
procedures of Project Selection CIttee
(June 87).
Implementation of the computerized
monitoring system for physical and
financial execution of public investments
(June 87).
Reform of taxation of externally financed
projects (part of tax reform, see page
(i)).
Study of Senegal long term development
prospects (TOR by June 1987, completion in
June 1988).



SAL III
Page (iv)
Objectives                                Recent Developments and Progress                                 SAL III
under SAL II
I.e. Public Finance
Preparation and submission to the                   Implementation of the first phase of the
government of tax reform (firat phase)              tax reform: applicatiom oE the new General
aiming at improving incentives to                   Tax Code (Apr. 87), elimination of
production and investment, expanding                exemption on taxes and duties on
the tax base, reducing tax evasion and              foreign-financed projects (July 87).
improve income distribution.
Preparation and implementation of the
secDnd pbase of the tax reform: study of
Pilot study of fiscal cadaster in                   general application of VAT in the trade
Dakar region.                                       sectiou (beginning of 88); possible
implementation of comprehensive income tax
with elimination of the scheduled tax
Improve economic incentives.                       Preparation of reorganization of                     system (end of 89).
Rostore lpublic savings through                    custom administration aud
reducing tax evasion, increasing                   computerization of custom statements.                Submission of new Customs Code to National
fiscal revenue and restructuring                                                                        Assembly and reorganization of custom
current expenditure; develop                       Implementation of tariff reform and                  service (June 87).
multi-year financial forecasting.                  revision of export subsidy system.
Introduction of fiscal cadaster for Dakar
Inventory of cross-arrears between the              (beginning of 69).
Government and enterprises up to June
85.                                                 Coputerisation of customs clearance
procedure (completion by Dec. 88).
Annual targetz fcr the settlement of state
arrears (June 87, according to IMP standby
arrangement).
Holding size of civil service at June 30,
1.987 level (68,OCO) for 1967-88. Reduce
wage bill as a share of current expendi-
tures (targets for 1987/88, 1988/89 and
1989/90). Introduce personnel information
system and improve personnel management
(June 88).



SAL III
Page (v)
Objectives                                Recent Developments and Progress                                  SAL III
under SAL II
I.e. Public Finance (Contd.)
Reduction of direct budget subsidies.                Proposals to transform indirect subsidies
into direct budget subsidies, or to
Launching of audits of indirect                      eliminate them (Sep. 87).  Continue to
subsidies and of special agreements                  reduce direct subsidies according to agreed
(conventions spdciales) between the                 targets.
government and enterprises.
Undertake evaluation and programming of
Actions under the IMW Stand-by                       recurrent expenditure on new investments
arrangement to reduce domestic                       launct.ed after July 1, 1988.
arrears, eliminate external arrears,
reduce budgetary subsidies and limit                 Streamline procurement procedures (Dec.
the number of civil servants and the                87).
growth of the wage bLIl.
Conpiete review o' current expenditure to
improve sectoral and functional allocation,
and efficiency (March 88).
Develop multi-annual financial forecasting
(December 87 and June 88).
Implementation of computerlzation of system
for monitorinig nedium and long term
guaranteed and on-lent external debt (Nov.
Measurea to improve external debt                    87); computerize administration of external
monitoring and management.                           grants and subsidies and of domestic debt
(June 88).
Preparation of provisional national
accounts for 1982-86 in current and
constant prlces (April 88).
Implementation of a permanent system of
administrative statistics and conduct of
two light surveys in the informal sector
(Dec. 88).
Implementation of program to improve
foreign trade statistics (Dec. 88).



SAL III
Page (vi)
Objectives                                  Recent Developments and Progress                                 SAL III
under SAL II
II. Agriculture
1. Pricing and Incentives Policies
Cereals
Preparation of cereals development                  Tmplementation of the cereals development
action program focusing on production               action program, including in particular:
factors, processing and prices.                     - audit of CSA (April 1987);
- review of performance of coarse grains
Reduction of CSA operations and                       processing units before the end of 1987;
introduction of a floor-price                       - maintain rice protection at a level
mechanism for cereals.                                sufficient to maintain incentive to
production of local cereals.
Reduce dependence on food imports;                  Steps taken towards disengagement of
increase and diversify agricultural                the State from rice import operations;               Establishment of a price information system
production and exports; increase                    privatization of internal marketing of              for producers and traders (July 87).
productivity; achieve greater                      cereals (except for paddy).
efficiency of public resource use
through fostering private sector                   Establishment of sufficient nominal
initiative and withdrawal of the                   protection for domestic cereals and
state from dirent involvement in                   periodic adjustment of retail price cE
production activities; and reduce                  rice in consultation with the Bank.
income disparities between urban and
rural areas.                                       Reduction of fertilizer subsidies in                 Fertilizer subsidy limited to CFAF 16/kg
accordance with agreed timetable.                   during the 1987/88 season.  Agreement to
Steps taken towards the liberalization              complete liberalization of fertilizer
of fertilizer import in accordance                  imports by 1989-90.
with agreed target date and the
privatization of fertilizer
distribution.
Groundnuts
Reduction of central groundnut seed                 Groundnut Guarantee Fund to be managed
security stock.                                     without recourse to the Budget.
Liberalization of seed distribution                 Undertake study of agricultural incentives
and implementation of a seed action                 and price support determination (Apr. 87).
program.                                            Review results of the study with the
Association and agree on action program
(Oct. 87).



SAL III
Page (vii)
Objectives                                   Recent Developments and Progress                                  SAL III
under SAL II                                            _
II. Agriculture (contd.)
1. Pricing and Incentives Policies (contd.)
Groundnuts (cont.)
Study to reduce groundnut marketing costs
(Dec. 87).
Audit and plan of actions to restructure
industrial facilities of groundnut
processing industry (Mar. 88).
2. Agricultural Credit
Covernment to define the main principles of
its agricultural credit policy (April 87).
The Government will carry out a comparative
study of ongoing agricultural credit
programs in the first half of 1987, to
review level of agricultural interest
rates, measures to reduce non-repayments
and administrative costs, and review need
to establish risk guarantee mechanisms.
3. Diversification and Export Promotion
Agree on TOR far investors meetitLg (May
87) to stimulate domestic and foreign
investment in diversification export crops
In the Seregal river valley.
Follow-uptJune 87).



SAL III
Page (viii)
Objectives                                 Recent Developments and Progress                                 SAL III
_________________________________                     __   _   under  SAL  II
II. Agriculture (Contd.)
4. Institutional Reforms
Preparation of reorganization of the                Implementation of the MDR reorganization
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR)                 and strengthening of the MDR capacity for
investment programing and budgeting (sea
Restructuring and/or disengagement of               I.b. above) (to be done under the MDR
a number of rural development                      Strengthening and Organization Project).
agencies; revision and signing of
"Lettrea de mission"t for SODAGRI,
SODEVA, 9AED, SODEPITEX and SOHIVAC.
5. Management of Natural Resources
Adjustment of existing regulations on land
allocation in the new irrigated areas with
a view to facilitate domestic and foreign
investment and diveruification crops; to
foster intensive land use; to recover part
of investment costs; and, to facilitate the
reinsertion of civil servants in the
agricultural sector.
Preparation of a draft decree codifying
respective roles of rural communities and
Government in allocating irrigated land
(June 87), including regulations concerning
the access to land by outsiders of the
eommunity and agro-businesses.



SAL III
Page (ix)
Objectives                                 Recent Developments and Progress                                  SAL III
under SAL II
II. Agriculture (Contd,)
6. Livestock Policy
Government to define Its livestock
development policy and atrategy, including
decontrol of meat prices, by June 87, and
implement action program for livestock
development (December 87).
Elimination of SERAS' marketing monopoly of
hides and skins (Dec. 87).
Restructuring of SOCS?P (Oct. 87).
1II. Industrg. Etployment and Trade
1. Protection System
Publication of a Revised tariff law                  Study towards suppression of the "carifs de
(August 1986)1 law call. for further                 pricision" by 1998/89 (conclusions to be
reforms in 1988.                                     discussed with IDA in Decmber 1987).
Lifting of Quantitative restrictions                 Lifting of remaining quantitative reotric-
for all products not produced in                     tlons (according to agreed cilendar).
Senegal, and for metal industries
Enhance competitivenes of                     (July 1986), packaging (October 1986),               Review of the system of ref.rence prices
industrial enterprise, and                   construction materials (April 1987)                   with a view to eliminating them as
their ability to reach export                and agroindustries (April L987).                      protective instruents.  Study to be
markets through (i)                                                                                completed in May 1987 and action plan to be
rationalization of protection                Agreement on a scbedule for removal of                agreed in September 1987.
systems; (ii) simplification                 remaining quantitative restrictions
of the regulatory framework;                  (July 1986).                                         Reform of the investment code to: (a)
(iii) improvements in labor                                                                        eliminate current provisions which Induce
laws; and (iv) promotion of                                                                        capital intensity; (it) introduce a system
Industrial exports.                                                                                of declining advantages over eligibility
Renouncing the practice of entering                  period; and (iii) include clear and
into spetial conventions with                        automatic eligibility criteria.  (New Code
enterprises.                                         to be published by July, 1987).
Undertaking of a study on existing                   Follow up on reco.mendations from studies
special conventions for selected                     on conventions (action plan to be agreed
enterprises (December 1986).                         with IDA by September, 1987), and actual
renegotiation of convention with CBS as
agreed at negotiations.



SAL III
Page (x)
Objectives                              Recent Developments and Progress                                  SAL III
under SAL II
III. Industry, Employment and Trade (Contd.)
2. Simplification of Regulatory framework
Commitment to phase out price controls               Continuation of the price liberalization
in step with removal of quantitative                reform.
restrictions.
Liberalization of distribution systems
(April 1987) by (i) eliminating statutory
distinction between wholesalers and
retailers; (ii) allowing certain industries
to directly sell to retailers; and (iii)
allowing industries to set up their own -
marketing network.
Streamlining of procedures to grant
Investment Code benefits and setting up of
a cell within the Ministry of Finance to
process benefit requests (August 1987).
3. Improve Labor Laws
Studies on (i) linkages between                     Revision of the labor code to enable
remuneration and productivity; (ii)                 enterprise to (i) hire without state
participation of workers in equity and               interference and (ii) renew temporary
profit sharing; and (iii) irpact of                  contract (June 1987).
employer's share of social charges on
job creation.                                        Program of labor reforms to be designed on
the basis of studies underway
(Recommendations to be adopted after
discussion with IDA before April 1988).



SAL III
Page (xi)
Objectives                                Recent Developments and Progress                                 SAL III
_____________________________________                          under SAL II
III. Industry, Employment and Trade (Contd.)
4. Proten dInustrial Ex9orts
Streamlining of procedures for                      Automaticity of access to importer/exporter
granting importer/exporter cards,                   cards (May 1987).
New law and decree, to revise the                   Review of experience with new system
export subsidy scheme and base it on                 (September 1987).
Industrial Value Added rather than FOB
value (August 1986).
New decree, to streamline the duty                  Review of experience with new system
drawback system (April 1986).                       (September 1987).
Study towards simplification of export              Implementation of recommendations from
forms (BENPRO committees).                          SENPRO committees (July 1987).
Streamlining of export procedures (action
plan by November 1987).
Implementation of a program of rationali-
zation of the various institutions involved
in quality control (October 1957).
Diagnostic study of ASACE (export insurance
company) and of CICES (Senegalese Center
for External Trade) (February 1987), and
implementation of restructuring measures
recommended in these diagnostic studies
(program to be agreed upon with IDA in
September 87).
2     * 



SAL III
Page (xii)
Objectives                                  Recent Developments and Progress                                  SAL III
_____________ _  under SAL II             _
IV. Financial Sector
Preparation of rehabilitation plans                  Implementation of rehabilitation plans Eor
for BNDS, USB and BCS and launching of               BNDS and BCS. (Finalization of plans for
rehabilitation/ restructuring for USB                BNDS and BCS by June 1987; execution,
vith a private partner.                              1987-88).
Inventory of government liabilities to               Agreement and implementation of program for
the Banking sector and reduction of                  the settlement of government net arrears to
these liabilitiea (ONGAD debt).                      enterprises (over five years) (see page
(iv) ).
Rehabilitate a number of
government-owned banks in crisis,                                                                        Strengthening of the control of primary
streamline the banking sector,                                                                           banks by the Central Bank (ECEAo) and the
develop resource mobilization,                                                                           Ministry of Finance, and of the role of the
restore financial intermediation and                                                                     Coimssion for Banking Control (June 1987).
improve control over credit
expansion and banking practices.                                                                         Reactivation of the Banking Association
(APB) (Jan. 87) and recognition by the
Government of APB as official interlocutor
(June 87).
Reduction of tax (TPS) on credit interest
(Jan. 87).
Increase in the minimum capital require-
ment to establish and operate a bank
(December 87).
Finalization of banking study aimed at
developing domestic resource mobilization
and financial instruments (April 87).
Review of the recoDmendations of the study
and agreement on a program for their
implementation (April-December 87).



SENEGAL                         A 
RAPPORT ECONOMIQUE                                          S Nbelh ^
DEIISITE DE LA POPULATION lpatr km2laprsur
t N - 511 
C -    ;C            -   ---            -|        |       ;          fM                       Ta0 r le keO
-RoUTEi  ' 1;: ;' ;    V              f~~~Ai A
|  fl- AEROR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  .                                                                            "IN
|  ~~~'-LIU'TE'; , | 121: '1 '                                                                          -* ~~~~~ouBog
i  . \  >    ;u or r  i;    v;   - S\ogou11.1
C~ ~                    .:%-1.                                               ^        _       ;-':.
0,  t  iO 3,0 4D 50 60 70 80 s0 100  , ,,,  , 4 , < 3      y      z~~~~~~~~TaiiTiekn_e
CaP5kiorirlS 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urt.^o                              -       j-      N.E ' .
wjZZM                                                           F   .~~~~~~~~



I   ~ ~ ~~~~   -    I.                      N~~~~~~I\   b
A U    R   I  T   A   N                                            stI    E  6  (e o   r        AkpMe
MourWnic~~~~Ag~rI
''._                                                        I
,   *                a^^¢sEg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Anb                    *r        r
A                                                                           L. 4 &
- 1~~- -- - ~ ~ ~ FEVRIER  ..te
L~~~~~~
u                                                                                        A ~~~~~~A 7NlQerIo 
Ta-- Tjrmn'
ko~ ~~~~~Nw
Tat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
1A~~~~~~~~~?G                       N   E      12.
FEVRIER '1987



I



