OFF\CAL
DOCUMENTD
SWISS GRANT RELATED TO
CREDIT NUMBER 1802 SE
Swiss Grant Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustnent Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Swiss Funds within the framework of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated              /  , 1987


﻿SWISS GRANT RELATED TO
CREDIT NUMBER 1802 SE
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated               /          , 1987, between the
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Swiss funds within the frame-
work of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Admin-
istrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) pursuant to Section F of the Resolution, the Government
of Switzerland (Switzerland) has agreed to provide Swiss funds
in the form of grants in support of programs of structural
change, policy reform and institutional improvement in countries
which are eligible for financing from the African Facility's
resources;
(C) by an Arrangement dated September 11, 1985 (the
Arrangement), Switzerland has requested IDA, and IDA has accept-
ed, to act as Administrator of the Swiss funds (the Administra-
tor) in accordance with the provisions of the Arrangement;
(D) the Administrator has received a letter dated April 16,
1987 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objec-
tives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declar-
ing the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Administrator in   the financ-
ing of urgently needed imports required during such execution;
(E) the Borrower has requested Swiss funds from the Admin-
istrator, to provide additional assistance in support of the
Program, and the Administrator has determined that the provision


﻿-2-
of such funds (the Swiss Grant) would be in accordance with the
provisions of the Resolution and the Arrangement;
(F) the Borrower has also requested IDA as Administrator
of the African Facility to provide additional 'asistance towards
the financing of the Program, and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and said Administrator (the African
Facility Credit Agreement), said Administrator is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount of
thirty-one million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 31,100,000) (the African Facility Credit);
(G) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
thirty-five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,000,000) (the
IDA Credit);
(H) the Borrower and the Administrator intend, to the
extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Swiss Grant be dis-
bursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Program,
before disbursements of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit and the IDA Credit are made; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Swiss Grant to the Borrower
in three tranches upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Deuelopment Association acting as


﻿-3-
Administrator of the Swiss funds, except in the phrase "member of
the Administrator" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e)
thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are amend-
ed to read "Swiss Grant Agreement", "Swiss Grant" and "Swiss
Grant Account", respectively;
(c) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss Grant pur-
suant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Swiss Grant
Agreement.";
(d) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(f) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association"
shall also include the International Development Association
acting in its own capacity; and
(g) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Administrator, the Borrower shall pre-
pare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the program referred to in
the Preamble to the Swiss Grant Agreement, the performance
by the Borrower and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the Swiss Grant Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Swiss Grant."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with res-
pect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those


﻿-4-
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Arti-
cles;
(b) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(c) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e) "Central Bank" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest.
ARTICLE II
The Swiss Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend a non-reim-
bursable contribution to the Borrower on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twelve million Swiss Francs
(SwF 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Swiss Grant may be with-
drawn from the Swiss Grant Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; or (ii) any coun-
try designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions set
forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in the Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿-5 -
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The National Director for Senegal of the
Central Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Condition8.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Swiss Grant
and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Administrator in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than CFAF 300,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
Borrower's arrangements to monitor such progress.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Swiss Grant shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the eligibility restric-
tions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss Grant.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such y'ear, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and the audit there-
of as the Administrator shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Swiss Grant Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Adminis-
trator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Swiss Grant Account was made, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditures submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-


﻿-7-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the relat-
ed withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) that an event has occurred which shall make it improb-
able that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit made
to the Borrower for the financing of the Pro-
gram shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B)  any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction,.
of the Administrator that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Program are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement, within


﻿-8-
the mcaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement and the African Facility Credit
Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified fcr the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that Switzerland or IDA decide to
terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator, pursuant to
paragraph 5 of the Arrangement, the Administrator shall notify
the Borrower promptly of the date on which Switzerland shall
assume the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions in Section 2.04 of
this Agreement, the Borrower's Minister responsible for Finance
and Secretary of State to said Minister are designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General .Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Miistere de 1'Economie et des Finances
Rue Charles Laine
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Republique du Sen&gal
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                      3203 SG
Dakar, Senegal


﻿-9-
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Swiss Funds
(International Development Administrator)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the Swiss Funds
within the framework of the SPECIAL
FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By /4 & V                                       1
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Swiss Grant
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Swiss Grant may be withdrawn from
the Swiss Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Admin-
istrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to
be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear   reactors,  and  parts
thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 11 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
897      897.3              Jewelry   of  gold,  silver  or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths'   or  silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-        971.0              Gold, non-monetary    (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, how-
ever, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods shall be eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Swiss Grant;
(c) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(e) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(f) expenditures for fuel or foodstuffs.
3.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss
Grant after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Swiss Grant
withdrawn from the Swiss Grant Account and the total amount of
such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of four
million Swiss Francs (SwF 4,000,000) and eight million Swiss
Francs (SwF 8,000,000), respectively, unless the Administrator
shall be satisfied in each case, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program.


﻿- 12 -
SCHIEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Schedule and sub-
ject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement, contracts for the procurement of goods
shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bid-
der's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to
bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the Uniced Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories eligible pursuant to Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement, that are potential suppliers of
the goods required."
(b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may re-
quire the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency
widely used in international trade and specified in the
bidding documents."


﻿- 13
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d) All references in the Guidelines to the Bank and to
loans shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator and
to the Swiss Grant, respectively.
2.   The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be stated
in the tender or prequalification documents for the procurement
of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
3.   (a) Contracts to be procured by private entities shall be
awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
(b) Contracts for goods to be procured by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions or state-owned enterprises, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 each shall be awarded
on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the pur-
chaser of such goods, such procedures to be satisfactory to the
Association.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Swiss Grant Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids and recommenda-
tions for award, a description of the advertising and tendering
procedures followed and such other information as the Administra-
tor shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Swiss Grant Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Admin-
istrator may reasonably request to support withdrawal applica-
tions in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or para-


﻿- 14 -
graph 5 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Administrator as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the Swiss Grant Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 3.04 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the exe-
cution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Swiss Grant in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
(b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to SwF 1,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss Grant
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to reple-
nish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Swiss Grant Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator re-
quests for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals
as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such re-
quests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the Swiss Grant
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Swiss Grant Account in
the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 16 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Swiss Grant Account in accord-
ance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Swiss Grant,
minus the amount of any outstanding agreement to
reimburse made by the Administrator and of any
special commitment entered into by the Administra-
tor pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
tions with respect to the Program, shall be equal
to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Swiss Grant Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Swiss Grant shall follow
such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satis-
fied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be uti-
lized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,


﻿- 17 -
refund t.o the Adm'nistrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the Swiss Grant Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


