OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-27 SE
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              , 1987


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-27 SE
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               S              ,1987, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-
SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) constituted by the
funds which shall be contributed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other dooors, and
administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African
Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with, the provi-
sions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter dated April 16,
1987 from the Borrower (the letter of Development Policy)
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed
to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program and requesting assistance from the Administrator in
the financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution and the Administrator has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program and, by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
thirty five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,000,000) (the
IDA Credit);
(D) the Borrower has also requested IDA as Administrator of
Special Joint Financing from Switzerland (the Swiss Grant
Administrator) to provide additional assistance in support of the
Program under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the
Special African Facility and by an agreement (the Swiss Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Swiss
Grant Administrator, the Swiss Grant Administrator is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an amount of twelve million Swiss
Francs (SwF 12,000,000) (the Swiss Grant);


﻿0. 2 -
(E) the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing the Program;
(F) the Borrower and the Administrator intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the African Facility Credit and
of the Swiss Grant be disbursed before disbursements of the
proceeds of the IDA Credit are made; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to the
Borrower in three tranches upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are amended
to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African Facility
Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 and the second
sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the


﻿-3-
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for -!ountries whose
names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Articles;
(b) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifica-
tion, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2 (1981);
(c) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(e) "Central Bank" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de 1'Ouest;
(f) "SEM" means Soci6t6 d'Economie Mixte, a joint stock
corporation of which the Borrower is one of the shareholders; and
(g) "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from
July 1 to June 30.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty one million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in the territories of: (i) any Part II
member of IDA; and (ii) any country designated by the


﻿-4-
Administrator as meeting the provisions set forth in paragraphs 4
(f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in the Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
or shall be cEhcelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the P 'rican Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable o)     Jay 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1997,
and endi.-       1, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment


﻿-5-
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The National Director for Senegal of the
Central Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the African
Facility Credit and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Administrator in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than CFAF $300,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Sec2ion 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, the
Borrower's arrangements to monitor such progress and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and such
actions, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Program and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. %a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)    furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and it, such detail as the Administrator shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Administrator such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Administrator shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Adminis-
trator has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the African
Facility Credit Acccunt was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Administrator's representatives to
examine such records; and


﻿-7-
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors !- to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b) (i) subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit
(including the IDA Credit and the Swiss Grant)
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Program shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreements providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(ii)   sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Administrator that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreements, and


﻿-8-
(B) adequate funds fUr the Program are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-
paragraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01, The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have been
fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the African FacYlity pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Borrower's Minister responsible for Finance and
Secretary of State to said Minister are designated as


﻿-9-
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are sp, -.Jied for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions
For the Borrower:
Minist6re de 1'Economie et des Finances
Rue Charles Laind
B.P. 4017
Dakar
R6publique du S6n6gal
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                      3203 SG
Dakar
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By//6             t
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be with-
drawn from the African Facility Credit Account for expenditures
made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
112                               Alcoholic beverages
121                               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122                               Tobacco, manufactured
667                               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
688                               Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles
therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium


﻿- 12 -
Grogp    Sub-group                 Description of Items
718      718.7                   Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, P.e.s.
897      897.3                   Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
-      971.0                   Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to March 1, 1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency,
other than the Administrator, shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 7,800,000 for petroleum products and SDR 7,800,000 for
foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the African Facility Credit after the amount of the proceeds
of the Credit and the African Facility Credit withdrawn from the


﻿- 13 -
Credit Account and the African Facility Credit Account and the
total amount of such commitments shall have reached in the
aggregate the equivalent of SDR 23,500,000 and SDR 44,800,000
respectively, unless the Administrator shall be satisfied in each
case, after the corresponding exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the corresponding actions described in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the
Administrator.
4.   If, after any such exchange of views, the Administrator is
not so satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Administrator,
then the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the African Facility Credit unwithdrawn from the African
Facility Credit Account or any part thereof.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof and subject to
the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement, contracts for the procurement of goods shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines) subject to the
following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one news-
paper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
ipment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of the countries
and territories eligible pursuant to Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, that are potential
suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 15 -
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d) All references in the Guidelines to the Bank and to
loans shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator and to
the African Facility Credit, respectively.
2.   The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement shall be stated in the tender or prequalification
documents for the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1
hereof.
3.   (a) Contracts for goods to be procured by private entities
and contracts for foodstuffs and petroleum products commonly
traded in the international market may be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
(b) Contracts for goods to be procured by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions or state-owned enterprises estimated to
cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent each may be awarded on the
basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods, such procedures to be satisfactory to the
Administrator.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility
Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Administrator may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the


﻿- 16 -
Administrator, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or
paragraph 5 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Administrator as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
A.   For the purpose of the release of the Second Tranche:
1.   The Borrower has: (a) offered for sale all its shares in the
following SEMs: Berliet-Sdnegal, HAMO, SPHU-Teranga, VACAP,
SAIH-Ngor and SPT; (b) offered for sale part of its shares in the
following SEMs: SERAS, Salins du Sine Saloum, Dakar-Marine and
SICAP; and (c) identified a group of at least ten other SEMs to be
privatized.
2.   The liquidation of seven SEMs (Bud-Sen6gal, COSENA, SNPT,
S6n6m6tallurgie, SSE, SEGI and SOSEPRA) and two Etablissements
Publics (STN and SONAR) has been completed.
3.   The Borrower has prepared an action program to implement the
recommendations resulting from the study on agricultural prices
and incentives.
4.   The Borrower has started the implementation of the action
program to change the scope of application of the system of
Valeurs Mercuriales.
5.   The Borrower has prepared an action program to review the
Conventions Sp6ciales in effect.
6.   The revised Investment Code has been submitted to the
National Assembly.
7.   The operation of the export subsidy system has been reviewed,
the level of the export subsidy has been reviewed and set, and the
operation of the duty drawback system has been reviewed.
8.   The rehabilitation plan of BNDS is being implemented in
accordance with the program adopted by the monetary authorities
(Ministry of Economy and Finance and Central Bank).
9.   The Borrower has increased the minimum amount legally
required for the capital of banks.
10. The Fonds de R6insertion has become operational.


﻿- 18 -
B.   For the purpose of the release of the Third Tran-The.
1.   The Borrower has fulfilled its financial obligations for the
first half of FY 1987-88 under all contrats-pians with public
enterprises in effect for that year, in accordance with the
timetable established as of June 30, 1987.
2.   The Borrower has submitted the three-year Public Investment
Program 1988-89/1990-91 to the Administrator, which has approved
it on the basis of mutually agreed evaluation criteria.
3.   The total number of the Borrower's employees (including
permanent civil servants and contractual employees) in FY 1987/88
does not exceed the number employed as of June 30, 1987, or a
maximum of 68,000.
4.   Provisional national accounts in current prices have been
prepared for calendar years 1982 through 1986.
5.   The implementation of the action program on agricultural
prices and incentives has started.
6.   The action program to improve the efficiency of the SONACOS
group has been prepared on the basis of an operational audit
(technical, financial and management audit).
7.   Draft laws revising the customs tariffs and modifying tariffs
per destination (Tarifs de Pr6cision) have been submitted to the
National Assembly in order to enable said tariffs to become
effective on July 1, 1988.
8.   The Borrower has adopted such recommendations of the studies
on employment and the labor market as shall have been satisfactory
to the Borrower.
9.   The Borrower has formulated a population policy and specified
the means for its implementation.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 3,900,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Administrator shall withdraw from the African Facility Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Administrator from the African Facility Credit Account in the
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 20 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Program,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No


﻿- 21 -
further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


