OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1802 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1802 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      (     so              , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 16, 1987 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association, acting
as Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
African Facility) established by its Executive Directors by
Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association as
Administrator of the African Facility (the African Facility Credit
Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to thirty one million
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,100,000) (the
African Facility Credit);
(C) the Borrower has also requested the Association as
Administrator of Special Joint Financing from Switzerland (the
Swiss Grant Administrator) to provide additional assistance in
support of the Program under the Special Joint Financing Agreement
for the Special African Facility and by an agreement (the Swiss
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Swiss Grant Administrator, the Swiss Grant Administrator is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an amount of twelve million
Swiss Francs (SwF 12,000,000) (the Swiss Grant);
(D) the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing the Program;
(E) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the African Facility Credit and
of the Swiss Grant be disbursed before disbursement of the
proceeds of the Credit are made; and


﻿-2-
(F) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have, the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have tne following
meanings:


﻿-3-
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "OFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Central Bank" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest;
(e) "SEM" means Soci6te d'Economie Mixte, a joint stock
corporation of which the Borrower is one of the shareholders; and
(f) "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from
July 1 to June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty five million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 35,000,000).
Section 2.02, (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in the Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.    Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Rarrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purpuses of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November 1, 1997, and ending May 1, 2037.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The National Director for Senegal of the
Central Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for


﻿-5-
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than CFAF $300,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, the
Borrower's arrangements to monitor such progress and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and such
actions, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the


﻿-6-
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)     retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)     enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) that an event has occurred which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will
be carried out;


﻿-7-
(b) (i) subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit
(including the African Facility Credit and the
Swiss Grant) made to the Borrower for the
financing of the. Program shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated, in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreements providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreements; and
(3) adequate  funds required during the execution
of the Program are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (a) of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-
paragraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:


﻿-8-
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
African Facility Credit Agreement, other than any related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) proposals for the reform of the Borrower's planning
system have been submitted to the Conseil Sup6rieur du Plan; and
(c) the Borrower has submitted to the National Assembly for
its approval a bill to amend the Labor Code in order to enaLie
enterprises to hire labor without mandatory intervention of the
State and renew temporary work contracts.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Repregentatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower's Mimister responsible for Financu and
Secretary of State to said Minister are designated as
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist're de 1'Economie et des Finance.,;
Rue Charles Lain6
B.P. 4017
Dakar
R6publique du S6n6gal
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                     3203  G
Dakar


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /
Regional Vice Pre ident
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject co the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
GrouP    Sub-group                 Description of Items
112         -                    Alcoholic beverages
121         -                    Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -                    Tobacco, manufactured
667         -                    Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
688         -                    Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles
therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium


﻿- 11 -
Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
718      718.7                    Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3                    Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
-      971.0                    Cold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country,
expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the
territory of such other country;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to March 1, 1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 7,800,000 for petroleum products and SDR 7,800,000 for
foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the African Facility Credit after the amount of the proceeds
of the Credit and the African Facility Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the African Facility Credit Account and the


﻿- 12 -
total amount of such commitments shall have reached in the
aggregate the equivalent of SDR 23,500,000 and SDR 44,800,000
respectively, unless the Association shall be satisfied in each
case, after the corresponding exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the
corresponding actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.
4.   If, after any such exchange of views, the Association is not
so satisfied and this situELtion shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Credit unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any
part thereof.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, contracts for the
procurement of goods shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines'are deleted.


﻿- 14 -
2.   (a) Contracts for goods to be procured by private entities
and contracts for foodstuffs and petroleum products commonly
traded in the international market may be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
(b) Contracts for goods to be procured by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions or state-owned enterprises estimated to
cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis
of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such
goods, such procedures to be satisfactory to the Association.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCRHZJLE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
A.   For the purpose of the release of the Second Tranche:
1.   The Borrower has: (a) offered for sale all its shares in the
following SEMs: Berliet-S6n6gal, HAMO, SPHU-Teranga, VACAP,
SAIH-Ngor and SPT; (b) offered for sale part of its shares in the
following SEMs: SERAS, Salins du Sine Saloum, Dakar-Marine and
SICAP; and (c) identified a group of at least ten other SEMs to be
privatized.
2.   The liquidation of seven SEMs (Bud-S6n6gal, COSENA, SNPT,
S6n6mdtallurgie, SSE, SEGI and SOSEPRA) and two Etablissements
Publics (STN and SONAR) has been completed.
3.   The Borrower has prepared an action program to implement the
recommendations resulting from the study on agricultural prices
and incentives.
4.   The Borrower has started the implementation of the action
program to change the scope of application of the system of
Valeurs Mercuriales.
5.   The Borrower has prepared an action program to review the
Conventions Sp6ciales in effect.
6.   The revised Investment Code has been submitted to the
National Assembly.
7.   The operation of the export subsidy system has been reviewed,
the level of the export subsidy has been reviewed and set, and the
operation of the duty drawback system has been reviewed.
8.   The rehabilitation plan of BNDS is being implemented in
accordance with the program adopted by the monetary authorities
(Ministry of Economy and Finance and Central Bank).
9.   The Borrower has increased the minimum amount legally
required for the capital of banks.
10. The Fonds de R6insertion has become operational.


﻿- 16 -
B.   For the purpose of the release of the Third Tranche:
1.   The Borrower has fulfilled its financial obligations for the
first half of FY 1987-88 under all contrats-plans with public
enterprises in effect for that year, in accordance with the
timetable established as of June 30, 1987.
2.   The Borrower has submitted the three-year Public Investment
Program 1988-89/1990-91 to the Association, which has approved it
on the basis of mutually agreed evaluation criteria.
3.   The total number of the Borrower's employees (including
permanent civil servants and contractual employees) in FY 1987/88
does not exceed the number employed as of June 30, 1987, or a
maximum of 68,000.
4.   Provisional national accounts in current prices have been
prepared for calendar years 1982 through 1986.
5.   The implementation of the action program on agricultural
prices and incentives has started.
6.   The action program to improve the efficiency of the SONACOS
group has been prepared on the basis of an operational audit
(technical, financial and management audit).
7.   Draft laws revising the customs tariffs and modifying tariffs
per destination (Tarifs de Precision) have been submitted to the
National Assembly in order to enable said tariffs to become
effective on July 1, 1988.
8.   The Borrower has adopted such recommendations of the studies
on employment and the labor market as shall have been satisfactory
to the Borrower.
9.   The Borrower has formulated a population policy and specified
the means for its implementation.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 3,900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent
amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.


﻿- 18 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by 'the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Program, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further


﻿- 19 -
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


