                          NIGERIA

Lagos Urban Transport Project




                    Report No. 103068
                           JUNE 30, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                                                           Report No.: 103068




                     PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                              NIGERIA

                            LAGOS URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT

                                   (IDA 37200 AND IDA 37201)



                                            June 30, 2016




IEG Financial, Private Sector, and Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without authorization.
                                                      ii


   Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
   Currency Unit = Nigerian naira (₦)

   2002                      US$1.00                   ₦119.41
   2005                      US$1.00                   ₦133.30
   2010                      US$1.00                   ₦151.05
   2013                      US$1.00                   ₦161.70
   2015                      US$1.00                   ₦198.90


   Abbreviations and Acronyms
   BRT              bus rapid transit
   BRT-Lite         low-cost BRT
   CO2              carbon dioxide
   CPS              country partnership strategy
   DCA              development credit agreement
   ERR              economic rate of return
   GDP              gross domestic product
   GEF              Global Environment Facility
   ICR              implementation completion and results report
   IEG              Independent Evaluation Group
   IMT              intermediate means of transport
   LAMATA           Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority
   LASTMA           Lagos State Traffic Management Authority
   LASWA            Lagos State Water Authority
   LFSC             Lagos State Ferry Services Company
   LMOT             Lagos Ministry of Transport
   LSMWI            Lagos Ministry of Works and Infrastructure
   LUTP             Lagos Urban Transport Project 1
   LUTP2            Lagos Urban Transport Project 2
   MVA              Motor Vehicle Administration
   NPV              net present value
   NURTW            National Union of Road Transport Workers
   PAD              project appraisal document
   PDO              project development objective
   PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
   RAP              resettlement action plan



   Fiscal Year

   Government of Nigeria:             January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                              :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector and Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Manager, IEG Sustainable Development                                  :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                          :   Ms. Fang Xu
                                                                   iii


Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ iv
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ iv
Preface................................................................................................................................ vi
Summary ........................................................................................................................... vii
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Project Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ............................................................ 4
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 5
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 7
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 8
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 12
5. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 25
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 25
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 26
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 27
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 29
6. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 31
References ......................................................................................................................... 33
Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet.......................................................................................... 35
Appendix B. The BRT-Lite Project .................................................................................. 43
Appendix C. List of Persons Met ...................................................................................... 46
Appendix D. Borrower Comments ................................................................................... 47


Tables
Table 1: Lagos Urban Transport Project Financing (US$ millions) ................................... 9
Table 2. Key Capacity Building Outputs .......................................................................... 14
Table 3. Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority: Counterpart and Transport Funds
Received from Lagos State (US$ millions) ...................................................................... 17

Figures
Figure 1. LAMATA Organization Chart .......................................................................... 15
Figure 2. The 22 km. BRT-Lite Route from Mile 12 to Lagos Island .............................. 45

Peter Freeman (consultant) and Fang Xu prepared this report. The project was assessed in the field in
November 2015. This report was peer reviewed by Jean-Charles Crochet and panel reviewed by George T.
Pitman. Richard Kraus provided administrative support.
                                                              iv


Principal Ratings
Nigeria: Lagos Urban Transport Project (IDA – 37200 and 37201)
                                     ICR*                       ICR Review*                 PPAR
 Outcome                       Highly Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Risk to                       Negligible to Low                       Moderate                         Moderate
 Development
 Outcome
 Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory                   Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
 Borrower                      Highly Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible World Bank department. The ICR Review is
an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                               Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                    Sector Director                   Country Director
 Appraisal               Dieter E Schelling                    Callisto Madavo                   Mark D Tomlinson
 Completion                    Ajay Kumar                  Obiageli K Ezekwesili                      Onno Ruhl
                                                           v

     Independent Evaluation Group Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through
                                        excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the World Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the World Bank’s
work is producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures
through the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25
percent of the World Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference
is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country
evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that
are likely to generate important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment
report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the World Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vi


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG), evaluates the Lagos Urban Transport Project in Nigeria. The
International Development Association (IDA) approved a credit of US$100 million for
the project on November 21, 2002 (Cr. 37200) and additional financing of a further US$
50 million in April 2007 (Cr. 37201). Credit 37200 was fully disbursed, but US$0.4
million was cancelled from Credit 37201. The project closed on December 31, 2010, two
and a half years later than originally planned.

At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$ 135 million, but the final cost of
the expanded project was US$ 265.8 million. The borrower contributed an amount of
US$ 100.4 million, nearly three times larger than originally envisaged.

The project was selected for evaluation by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) as an
input to the on-going major evaluation scheduled for FY2017 on the effectiveness of the
World Bank Group’s support to urban transport development. This was because the
project included not only the improvement of transportation in the Lagos Metropolitan
Area, but also the preparation of the first bus rapid transit project (BRT) in Africa. The
project encompassed multimodal transport investment including ferry services, traffic
management, and a new coordinating transport authority. Another reason was to re-visit
the disconnect between the self-rating in the implementation completion and results
report (ICR) and that given by IEG in its review of that ICR posted on June 26, 2013.

IEG prepared the PPAR on the basis of the project appraisal documents (PADs), ICRs,
development credit agreements (DCAs), and project papers, related reports, memoranda,
and working papers. Meetings were held with World Bank staff in Washington, DC, and
at the resident mission in Abuja. An IEG field mission visited Nigeria in November 2015
to review achievements and assess the sustainability of the project in light of subsequent
developments, including the active follow-on project. Discussions were held with the
Lagos Metropolitan Transport Authority, the Lagos State Waterways Authority, the
Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, and the bus operator–Primero Transport
Services Ltd—among others.

The team expresses its appreciation for the generous time and attention given by the
borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons met by the team during the mission
is given in Appendix C.

Following IEG practice, copies of the draft report were sent to the appropriate
government officials and implementing agencies, and no comments were received.
                                            vii

Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the World Bank-supported
Lagos Urban Transport Project in Nigeria. The International Development Association
(IDA) approved a credit of US$100 million for the project on November 21, 2002, and
additional financing of a further US$ 50 million in April 2007. The project closed on
December 31, 2010.

Lagos is the largest city in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is the commercial hub and main port of
Nigeria, with a metropolitan area population estimated to be around 17 million (2015).
For many years, public transportation in Lagos has been fragmented and unreliable, with
multiple private operators, small poor quality vehicles, and an unregulated environment.
Chronic traffic congestion is a major problem. These challenging circumstances
presented the World Bank and the borrower with a huge task.

The state government program that this project intended to support had the development
objective of supporting the improvement of transport services in the Lagos Metropolitan
Area in particular for public transport users, especially the poor. This was to be achieved
through five sub-objectives: improvements to the management of the Lagos metropolitan
transport sector; enhancement of the road network; more efficient public transport
services; the promotion of water transport, and the preparation for future phases of the
urban transport program. A key factor in the project was support for the newly
established Lagos Metropolitan Transport Authority (LAMATA), which was empowered
to plan an integrated transport system for the Lagos State Government with a specific
focus on implementing and regulating mass transit systems. A transport fund was to be
established, which would eventually be able to cover the costs of maintenance of
transport infrastructure in the metropolitan area. The project scope was expanded after
four years of implementation through the provision of additional financing from the
World Bank and a substantial further contribution from the borrower.

The credit financed road rehabilitation and maintenance to restore the main routes over
which the public transport operated. The transport fund was indeed set up and by 2009
LAMATA was able to meet 60 percent of its operational funding requirements. This is
being further pursued in the follow-on project, Lagos Urban Transport 2, which, among
other things, aims to ensure that more income flows into the fund.

A quality pilot bus franchise scheme, owned by former operators of small, poorly
maintained buses, was implemented on specific corridors and the project financed
consultancy support for developing a conceptual framework for this. It subsequently
proved possible to attract commercial funds for the purchase and operation of 100 high
capacity buses and to lease a further 120 new buses. There was no government subsidy
for operating the scheme and it has been financially successful. Members of the National
Union of Road Transport Workers operated the buses supported by LAMATA and
succeeded in paying back the loan in only two years. Selected stakeholders, including
union representatives, were taken on a study tour to see successful bus and mass transit
                                             viii


operations in Brazil and Colombia and this was a crucial step in their acceptance of the
concept.

Later, this concept was expanded in a pilot bus rapid transit line (known as BRT-Lite),
which was also established along a 22 km. route–the first in Africa. BRT is a bus-based
mass transit system with dedicated lanes to deliver fast, comfortable, and cost-effective
service. Though the infrastructure was funded by the State of Lagos, the World Bank,
drawing on its experience in Latin America, helped adapt the concept to African
conditions and financed the design of the BRT line at a cost that was much cheaper than
similar schemes elsewhere because it had boarding points rather than full stations and did
not separate the track from the roadway exclusively for the entire length. Public support
for the project is evident and ridership has far exceeded expectations.

Overall, the project was pro-poor oriented. Time spent by poor households on bus travel
was reduced, as was travel time and waiting time per trip along project corridors.
Passengers also experienced fewer transfers in their journeys, while the amount spent by
poor households on bus travel along the corridors fell from 20 to 12 percent of income.

Relevance of the objectives is rated substantial, as is relevance of design, although it was
hampered by the failure to implement a results framework in the first few years of the
project. The quality of monitoring and evaluation was modest. The objective to improve
the transport services in the Lagos Metropolitan Area in particular for public transport
users and for the poor was substantially achieved, despite some shortcomings with
respect to the ferry services regarding safety and the lack of progress in attracting private
sector investment to the Lagos Ferry Services Company. Efficiency is assessed as
substantial given the high economic rate of return. The project outcome is assessed as
moderately satisfactory.

Risk to development outcome is considered moderate. The setting up of the transport
fund has been an important step in the right direction. Although the inflow to the fund
covers only 60 percent of recurrent and periodic maintenance needs in the road sector,
adequate provision for maintenance of the BRT service has been provided. At the outset,
it was indicated that it was a longer-term goal to achieve 100 percent cost recovery and
further steps in the follow-on project are expected to close this gap. In comparison, the
water transport services are cash-starved and insufficiently attractive to the private sector.
In general, there is still a degree of dependency on World Bank funds in the follow-on
project to maintain a stable situation. The current economic situation in Nigeria, which is
deteriorating with the lower international oil prices, is a cause for concern given that 70
percent of government revenue comes from that source.

Regarding World Bank performance, the project was subject to a review by the World
Bank’s Quality Assurance Group in June 2003, which was concerned about the difficult
country context and complex design. Concern was expressed that the implementation of
the physical components might sidetrack the Lagos authorities and the World Bank from
the objective of promoting the institutional and cost recovery improvements that were the
project’s top priority. The complexity did contribute to the limited progress in the initial
years of project implementation. However, despite the over-stretched design and
jurisdiction difficulties, the borrower, with the World Bank’s help, managed to improve
                                               ix

the public transport service to the satisfaction of the users, while institutional capacity
was strengthened and a cost recovery mechanism established. Nevertheless, a proper
monitoring and evaluation system was not in place until the approval of additional
finance. At this time, the number of traffic management units to be set up was reduced;
and over time, the closing date was progressively extended by two and a half years.

The World Bank during supervision sought ways to resolve various issues in a
collaborative manner. Technical assistance, though there were perhaps too many separate
studies, was commensurate with the needs of the project. The World Bank’s procurement
and financial management procedures set the project on a sound footing and gave
credibility to LAMATA as a transparent organization. Windfall savings were used
opportunistically to finance the design costs of the BRT. Overall the rating for World
Bank performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

In respect to borrower performance, the state government ensured approval of the
LAMATA legislation; provided support to empower, resource, and establish it; and
streamlined responsibilities within the government to better define the role and mandate
of LAMATA as a planning and regulatory body. Although the state government was
partly responsible for insufficient counterpart funding early in implementation, it
subsequently offered timely solutions, and was willing to restructure the project, such that
by closure, the state government had financed over US$100 million from the state budget
and transport fund towards project activities, including the capital costs of the pilot BRT
line. The state government’s final contribution was considerably greater than the initial
US$ 35 million specified at appraisal. LAMATA made steady progress despite the
challenging circumstances and demonstrated competence in complying with World Bank
procurement and safeguard requirements. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

Lessons
Setting up a strong institutional basis for coordinated planning and regulation is
critical to the success of urban transport projects. However, such changes take time and
need to be supported by strong commitment from top officials and politicians to ensure the
integrity of governance changes as in the case of the establishment of LAMATA.
Supporting legislation is essential and the roles and responsibilities of all transport entities
affected need to be worked through. The recruitment of experienced international staff
enabled the creation of a strong authority and the ability to move beyond the project and
begin to implement an ambitious reform agenda.

The challenges facing cities with respect to urban transport and its governance are
of long duration and not quickly fixed. The Bank had its first intervention in the city
with the Lagos Urban Transport Project, followed by the second Lagos Urban Transport
Project, this continuous engagement by the Bank is a compelling requirement to sustain
progress in urban transport sector. It should also be noted that urban transport projects
require longer periods for implementation—seven years or longer when many authorities
are involved.
                                              x


Critical to the success of the project was steady progress with the institutional
reforms and the establishment of a transport fund, which contributed to the positive
outcome by improving financial sustainability. The team targeted the right priorities in
a comprehensive capacity building program and ensured that the necessary preparations
and commitments were made to establish a sustainable transport fund. However, while
financial self-sufficiency for institutions is an important longterm goal, it may take longer
to achieve than has been previously recognized.

World Bank supervision teams need flexibility and the ability to adjust the project
to take advantage of opportunities that may arise. In this case, the enthusiasm of the
politicians in the State of Lagos to pursue the BRT project presented such an opportunity,
and the team was able to use windfall funding to help the pilot BRT project to become a
reality by financing the design and related costs and in providing technical advice from
the World Bank’s global experience. The concept of BRT was adapted to the African
context so that it was more affordable to the poor in Lagos.

Observing the experience of other countries or cities where new public transport
concepts have worked successfully can convince local stakeholders to adopt a new
approach. In this case it convinced key stakeholders, including the trade unions, to agree
to adopt the franchising and BRT concepts locally. That said, the integration of existing
operators into new bus franchise services without fundamental transformation of business
models underlying those services is at best a transitional strategy and not sustainable in
the long run.




                                                                 Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                                                  Director
                                                         IEG Financial, Private Sector, and
                                                                Sustainable Development
                                                1


1. Background and Context
Economic Background

1.1     Nigeria, the largest country in West Africa, exceeds the area of France and
Germany combined. It has a federal government system with 36 states and one federal
territory (Abuja). In 2014 the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) overtook that of
South Africa to become the continent’s largest economy.

1.2      According to the World Bank, Nigeria officially has a population exceeding 177
million (2014) with 47 percent urbanized, but many sources suggest that the figure,
although based on census data, may be inflated, with the population in the north being
broadly overstated and that in the south understated.1 Some estimates put the true
population closer to 160 million. The Economist Special Report on Nigeria, (June 20,
2015), for example, points out that because allocations of revenue and resources from
central government depend on population estimates, every region has had an incentive to
inflate its figures. Since eight cities have a population of over a million this issue is
significant for effective planning. There are two mega cities, Lagos and Kano, with
populations exceeding ten million, while five other cities have a population between five
and ten million.

1.3     During the past decade the country, despite a history of weak governance,
experienced strong economic growth averaging 6.5 percent a year, strengthened by
prudent fiscal policy management and a decline in the rate of inflation. The successful
outcome of the recent Presidential and Governorship elections also enhanced stability and
the country’s macroeconomic prospects. Poverty has declined over the last five years by
about 2.3 percent, despite continued high population growth. Nevertheless, a major
challenge is to handle the steep fall in oil prices. Nigeria is a major oil exporting country
and has large reserves of natural gas. Although oil contributes only about a tenth of
Nigeria’s GDP, it accounts for 70 percent of government revenue. The sharp decline in
oil prices since the third quarter of 2014 has posed major challenges to the country’s
public finances; it has constrained the ability of the new federal government to undertake
some ambitious programs. Strong non-oil growth is needed and hurdles include the need
to strengthen the investment climate and improve governance (particularly at state level).
Fiscal decentralization gives the state governments considerable policy autonomy, but
capacity is weak in many states meaning that improved governance will likely be a long-
term process.2

Lagos Urban Transport Context

1.4    Lagos is the largest city in sub-Saharan Africa. It is the commercial hub of
Nigeria, with a metropolitan area population estimated to be around 17 million in 2015,




1
    The Economist Special Report on Nigeria, Nigeria’s Opportunity (June 20, 2015)
2
    www.worldbank.org/en/country/nigeria/overview
                                                 2


growing at four percent per year.3 Estimates suggest it is the sixth largest city in the
world. The metropolitan area stretches well beyond the physical boundaries of the State
of Lagos. Its seaport and the international airport handle over 70 percent of the nation’s
cargo. It is also the largest manufacturing center in Nigeria, employing over 45 percent of
the skilled manpower in the country. Although Lagos has been replaced by Abuja as the
country’s capital city, its role as the principal financial and commercial center and
gateway to the country is unquestioned.4

1.5     The absence of effective policies on land use and economic development has led
to urban sprawl; the long travel distances have also pushed up the price for public
transport affecting the poor disproportionately. Before the project, Lagos lacked any
mechanism to coordinate the plans and actions of the various agencies at the federal,
state, and local government levels for managing, maintaining, and developing the
transport network in an integrated manner. Moreover, most of these agencies lacked a
secure financial basis for their operations; their budgets were vulnerable to fiscal
pressures and higher political priorities.

1.6     Transport operations in Lagos for the public are almost entirely owned and
managed by the private sector – typically individuals own one or two second-hand
vehicles that they rent out to drivers on a daily basis. For many years such transportation
in Lagos has been fragmented and unreliable, with multiple private operators, small poor
quality vehicles, and an unregulated environment. Chronic traffic congestion is a major
problem with commuters reliant on a large fleet of 75,000 minibuses (danfo) together
with smaller numbers of midi-buses (molue) and shared taxis (okada). Danfo and molue
are low quality modes of transport with variable fares. Riders of such vehicles tend to
experience uncomfortable, unsafe and tedious journeys. Although minibuses are widely
used they are not much liked. Most minibus owners have only a few vehicles and
compete aggressively for passengers. Transport prices associated with these modes
historically accounted for over 20 percent of a typical passenger’s disposable income.
The danfo and molue are affiliated with one or more associations, the largest being the
National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW).

1.7      There are far more registered private vehicles than one would expect in a country
at this stage of development. This is a legacy of subsidized petroleum prices over many
years and unrestricted imports of cheap second-hand vehicles. Commuters from the north
and west of Lagos trying to reach the central business district on Lagos Island typically
have a one-way journey of more than two hours.5 The linear nature of the commute
concentrates the congestion in a north-south pattern since possible alternative routes are
constrained by the coastal geography. Buses account for 82 percent of the share of
motorized person trips, while taxis and cars account for 13 percent and the remaining five
percent are motorcycles, despite the fact that two-wheeled traffic is officially banned in
the city center. Non-motorized transport users (principally pedestrians), as observed by

3
  Lagos Central Bureau of Statistics; - the 2006 national census put the population of Lagos at
nine million, but the Lagos authorities vehemently dispute this figure; according to the Lagos
State Bureau of Statistics the population was closer to 17 million (2015).
4
  World Bank, 2010 Lagos Urban Transport Project 2, PAD, Report 49974-NG
5
  Mobereola D, 2009, Lagos Bus Rapid Transit, SSATP Discussion Paper No 9.
                                                 3


the IEG mission (November 2015), have very limited infrastructure facilities; sidewalks
have largely been taken over by parked cars and there are few footbridges or pedestrian
crossings.

1.8    Other modes of transport include a limited daily rail commuter service operated
by the National Railway Corporation and a branch line that is scarcely used (these rail
corridors represent a significantly under-used asset). In addition there are ferry services
provided by both state and federal government. Such services together at the time of
appraisal accounted for less than one percent of total person trips, but were considered to
have good potential for expansion.

1.9     The institutional structure of Nigeria has three levels: federal, state and local. At
the federal level, the Ministry of Transport is responsible for national transport policy and
the Ministry of Works develops the federal road network, which connects the cities.
Urban transport has been devolved to the states through the 1999 constitution and the
states thus make their own laws on traffic and transport. In Lagos State the Ministry of
Transport (LMOT) is the primary agency for transport policy and implementation, whilst
the newly created Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) was to
introduce an integrated transport system for the state with specific focus on implementing
and regulating mass transit systems. The Lagos State Ministry of Works and
Infrastructure (LSMWI) is responsible for the state road network and the Lagos State
Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) has the power for primary traffic
management and enforcement; it reports to the Commissioner for Transportation.

World Bank Assistance to Urban Transport

1.10 Federal government policy is to propagate the concept of sustainable urban
transport involving improvements to safety, cleanliness, and reliability for the urban
transport systems in Nigeria, as well as through institutional reforms and improvements
to the regulatory and enforcement environment.6 The World Bank committed to support
urban transport development in Lagos in order to improve the urban environment and
transport for the poor in particular. The concept of metropolitan authorities in developing
countries had already been implemented elsewhere in Africa with Bank support, notably
in Dakar, Senegal.7 Under LUTP a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Line was established on a
pilot basis with the World Bank providing technical support and the capital funding by
the Lagos State Government.8 This BRT concept is being expanded under the follow on
project Lagos Urban Transport Project 2 (LUTP2) with the financing and implementation
of two additional lines. The World Bank’s intention is to consolidate and build on the
achievement of the first project. Ultimately it would like to support replication of the
project in other cities such as Kano.



6
  Transport Sector Policy Letter drafted in 1996 and revised in 2001.
7
  Kumar A and Agarwal O, 2013, Institutional Labyrinth: Designing a Way Out for Improving
Urban Transport Services – Lessons from Current Practice, Working Paper 84066, World Bank
8
  BRT is a bus-based mass transit system that delivers fast, comfortable and cost effective service.
The BRT-Lite system in Lagos operates along a 22 km. route of which 65 percent is physically
segregated from the regular roadway and 20 percent is separated by road markings.
                                              4


1.11 The World Bank is well placed to mobilize its knowledge and expertise in urban
transport worldwide for the benefit of Nigeria. Best practices in similar projects such as
in Bogota, Colombia and Curitiba, Brazil have been used as a basis for adapting the BRT
bus-based mass transit system to the African context.

1.12 Future focus is likely to be on reviving the under-used rail corridors, expanding
the BRT network, reducing traffic-related air pollution, improved traffic management,
introduction of integrated land use measures and parking policies as well as upgrading
the pedestrian facilities and promoting road safety. This is in line with the Transport
Master Plan for Lagos and the 2009 Country Partnership Strategy.

2. Project Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1    This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) evaluates the Lagos Urban
Transport Project in Nigeria. IDA approved a credit of US$100 million for the project on
November 21, 2002 and additional financing of a further US$ 50 million in April 2007.
Credit 37200 was fully disbursed, but US$0.4 million was cancelled from Credit 37201.
The project closed on December 31, 2010, two and a half years later than originally
planned.

Objectives

2.2     The project objectives stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA -
conformed copy June 24, 2003) differed from the PAD. The DCA (page 2) first refers to
a Lagos State program whose objectives were “ to improve the transport services in the
Lagos Metropolitan Area in particular for public transport users and for the poor by: (i)
maximizing use of existing capacity; (ii) promoting private sector participation and
competition; (iii) raising cost-recovery and ensuring sustainability; (iv) regulating quality,
externalities and competition in the transport sector; (v) developing human resources; (vi)
providing safety nets; and (vii) involving stakeholders in the development process and
declaring Lagos State’s commitment to the execution of the Program.”

2.2     Subsequently, in Schedule 2 (page 19) of the DCA, the project development
objective was stated as “to support the program by (a) improving the management of the
Lagos metropolitan transport sector; (b) enhancing the public transport road network in
an environmentally, socially and financially sustainable manner; (c) enhancing bus
services; (d) promoting water and non-motorized transport; and (e) prepare future
phases of the Program.

2.3    The PAD (page 2) on the other hand describes the project objectives as: “The
capacity to manage the transport sector in the Lagos Metropolitan Area is sustainably
improved and the efficiency of the public transport network enhanced, such that it
contributes measurably to poverty reduction.”

2.5    After reviewing the above, this assessment assesses the program objectives as the
overarching objectives and the means to achieve them through the five activities listed in
Schedule 2 of the DCA, but takes note that the fifth activity is mainly an input rather than
an output.
                                            5



Relevance of Objectives
2.6    The relevance of the project development objectives is substantial. However, as
described above, it was difficult to distinguish some of the objectives from the
components.

2.7    The program objective is:

            To improve the transport services in the Lagos Metropolitan Area in
             particular for public transport users and for the poor.

       The means by which the program objectives are supported in the project are:

            Improving the management of the Lagos metropolitan transport sector,
             including preparation of future phases of the program;
            Enhancing the public transport road network in an environmentally,
             socially and financially sustainable manner;
            Enhancing bus services;
            Promoting water and non-motorized transport; and
            Preparing future phases of the program.

2.8     After 30 years of military rule, the World Bank’s interim strategy for 2000-2001
discussed the need for a full Country Assistance Strategy formulated on the basis of a
recently completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. It stated that the major role of the
World Bank would be to help the Nigerians build their capacity to manage their own
resources effectively, and this theme would inform all of the World Bank's activities in
Nigeria. Studies on private sector competitiveness, including a survey of international
businesses, had shown that transport infrastructure was given the least satisfactory
assessment in Nigeria out of twenty-four African countries.9 The objectives were thus
relevant at the time and remained relevant throughout the life of the project.

2.9     The 2009 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) covering the period FY10-13 was
jointly developed by the Federal Government of Nigeria, the World Bank Group, as well
as the United Kingdom’s Department for International Aid, and the United States Agency
for International Development. In wishing to transform and diversify Nigeria’s economy,
there was a particular focus on establishing an integrated mass transit program with
priority given to road, rail, and water transportation services. The September 2011 CPS
Progress Report proposed Lagos State as a candidate to pioneer state level urban
development operations and prompt other states to improve planning, management and
coordination of urban transport functions in their metropolitan areas. The importance of
diversifying away from oil dependency, the provision of key infrastructure and a major
move to strengthen governance are continuing important features of the latest CPS for



9
 World Economic Forum, 2000, The Africa Competitiveness Report 2000/2001, Centre for
International Development and World Economic Forum, New York, Oxford University Press
                                             6


FY14–17, though this is more applicable to the follow on project, which mainly focuses
on expanding BRT and other transport services further.

2.10 The PDOs were also consistent with the federal government’s priorities as
presented in the 2007 National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy for
Nigeria as well as the Lagos State Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy.
Both strategies recognize the economic importance of an efficient and sustainable
transport system for the Lagos Metropolitan Area, which is the main commercial center
of the country. The objectives are also aligned with the long-term (2020) federal
government plan to develop an efficient and affordable multi-modal transportation
network for the major cities.

Components

2.11   The project comprised five components:

2.12 Capacity building (Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 27.6M; actual cost at
completion, US$44.2M). This component focused on capacity building through the
establishment of an appropriate policy, regulatory, and institutional framework for the
management and financing of the transport system of metropolitan Lagos. It included
institutional strengthening to bring the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority
(LAMATA) into operational effectiveness and included the establishment of units
responsible for procurement, financial management, and safeguard compliance as well as
the creation of a special transport fund from sector based user charges to be used by
LAMATA to entirely finance its operating costs and discharge its key responsibilities.
The establishment of the Fund was covenanted in the loan agreement with details of
amounts to be deposited from collection of user charges each fiscal year. In addition,
LAMATA was to maintain, starting in 2003, a ratio of total operating expenses to total
expenditures of less than 0.06.

2.13 The component included the construction of an office building for LAMATA and
strengthening the capacity of other transport sector agencies in Lagos State. These
included the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation (to strengthen its policy making and
performance monitoring functions), and the Lagos State Ministry of Works, (to improve
its planning for road investments and explore options for toll roads). In addition, the
Lagos State Ministry of Women’s Affairs and Poverty Alleviation was included (to
strengthen its poverty and gender impact monitoring capacity), and the Nigeria Police
Traffic Unit (to enhance traffic enforcement capacity in Lagos). Provision was also made
for the establishment of Traffic Management Units in key local government areas as well
as the financing of the operating costs of LAMATA, including external audits and the
carrying out of other activities consistent with sector policy and strategy. A cost recovery
strategy was to be drawn up moving towards full cost recovery in the long term and
ensuring the declared road network was fully covered by user charges by the end of the
project.

2.14 Road network efficiency improvement (Estimated cost, U$ 98.5M; actual cost,
U$ 158.8M). The component was designed to enhance the efficiency of the existing road
space, to reduce vehicle-operating costs and to improve road safety, in particular
                                                7


pedestrian safety. It comprised: maintenance and rehabilitation measures on a prioritized
400 km of the 632 km of main road network (including bridges) in the Lagos
Metropolitan Area that serves as the backbone for the bus system; the rehabilitation and
improvement of major junctions on the above network incorporating low cost traffic
systems management measures; and the preparation and implementation of similar
measures to improve traffic flow on Lagos Island and in Ikeja.

2.15 Bus services enhancement (Estimated cost, US$ 0.7M; actual cost, US$ 50.7M).
This component comprised technical assistance to LAMATA for the establishment of an
effective regulatory framework for bus services provision by the private sector and the
adaptation of this framework to the other modes of public transport (rail mass transit and
water transport). It included the preparation of a pilot demonstration project for the
provision and financing by the private sector of improved bus services. (This component
was later considerably expanded with funding from IDA additional financing, and from
the Lagos State Government).

2.16 Water transport promotion (Estimated cost, US$ 2.9M; actual cost, US$ 5.3M).
To contribute to the improvement of modal diversity within an integrated urban transport
system by promoting the enhanced provision and use of water transport, including the
development and implementation of a detailed strategic plan for improving the use of the
waterways of Metropolitan Lagos for transport services, including the establishment of an
appropriate regulatory framework; a study on the potential for privatization of the Lagos
State Ferry Services Corporation and disposal of existing state owned ferries and the
encouragement and promotion of private sector participation in the provision of water
transport services. In addition there were feasibility studies for potential franchised routes
and spot improvements to selected existing terminal facilities.

2.17 Preparation for follow-on phases (Estimated cost, US$ 5.3M; actual cost, US$
6.8M): This component consisted of the preparation of a comprehensive Master
Transport Plan for metropolitan Lagos, an institutional reform plan of the transport sector
(in particular on reform of the Motor Vehicle Administration system), a strategy for the
enhanced use of intermediate means of transport (IMT)10 in metropolitan Lagos, and all
the necessary studies and preparatory activities for the next phase of the implementation
of the Lagos Metropolitan Area transport policy and strategy, including the preparation of
resettlement plans for the implementation of rail mass transit in the Agege-Iddo corridor.

Relevance of Design
2.18 During and prior to project preparation the performance of urban mobility
systems in Lagos was dismal, but the government, in creating the Lagos Metropolitan
Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) in 2002, understood that there was an urgent need
to establish an organizational and institutional capacity for the planning and management




10
 “Intermediate forms of transport” is a generic term that includes animal carts, bicycles,
motorcycles, rickshaws, and wheelbarrows, among other things.
                                                 8


of the state’s transport system. It also needed to raise the level of cost recovery in the
transport sector and promote the use of affordable public transport services.11

2.19 The overall relevance of design is rated substantial. Despite the design
complexity, there was a good causal linkage between the planned activities, the sub-
objectives and the program objective. The sub-objectives commenced logically with
institution building of LAMATA and the upgrading of the identified roads in the core
area used by public transport, as well as improvements to traffic flow at the major
intersections. Expanded and better bus and ferry services directly targeted the poorer
transport users. The studies showed how all urban transport modes can be further
improved and integrated in the program over time. A focus on the poorer public transport
users is evident from the emphasis on reducing the cost of travel and improving the
service for users from poor households.

2.20 The results framework was delayed initially, because data in Lagos are extremely
difficult to collect, but when the framework was finally in place, it supported a sensible
approach of measuring savings in travel time and the costs of travel for rail and road
users; it provided for the establishment of a coordinating metropolitan authority to
oversee implementation progress as well as considerable capacity building; it introduced
a transport fund to ensure operations and maintenance could be funded going forward;
and enabled comprehensive urban transport planning. However, the indicators were not
supported by a full baseline survey at the outset and only, when additional financing was
approved, were credible baseline figures approved.

2.21     On the other hand, the bus service component of the project was designed as a
public-private partnership with the public sector financing the infrastructure and the
private sector financing bus procurement and operations. While the Credit did not finance
bus purchases, the success of the project nevertheless depended on the ability of the
private sector to obtain financing for buses. This was the major success of the project.

2.22 Traffic congestion was to be relieved by a series of measures with implications
for improving the environment, while innovative public transport interventions supported
this aim through reducing emissions and encouraging commuters to switch from taxis and
other vehicles to less-polluting modern buses, although there were no targets set for
improving emissions levels.

3. Implementation
Implementation Experience

Loan and Credit Details

3.1    The total cost of the project increased from US$135 million at the time of
appraisal to US$ 265.8 million at closing. IDA approved additional financing of US$50
million on 10 April 2007, while the borrower provided counterpart funding and
contributions from a transport fund, established under the project, to the value of

11
     Letter of Sector Strategy and Policy, PAD, Appendix 11
                                                     9


US$100.4 million. The remaining US$15.4 million was funded out of windfall foreign
exchange gains. The most significant cost increases were for the road network and the
bus services components; road overlays planned for 42 km. was extended to 68 km. and
length of the franchised bus network was increased from 10,000 to 15,000 km. In
addition there was an increase in the cost of road works primarily due to significantly
higher bitumen and other input prices, and deterioration in the condition of parts of the
road network, during the two-year delay between design and construction.

Project Financing

3.2      In April 2007, US$50 million in additional IDA financing was approved to
contribute towards the increased cost of road works and to scale up the bus services. The
scale-up of the bus services component included bus shelters, terminals, lay-byes, and
streetlights. For road network efficiency improvements, 25 additional junctions were
added, three traffic management units were to be funded and traffic systems management
measures introduced along the pilot bus franchise corridors to improve traffic flow. Some
funds were also allocated for a strategic plan to improve use of the waterways and for the
rehabilitation and upgrading of two additional jetties. The project was entirely financed
by IDA and borrower contributions (including the transport fund – see Table 1).

Table 1: Lagos Urban Transport Project Financing (US$ millions)




Source: LAMATA and ICR. See Appendix A for greater detail.


3.3     The actual IDA disbursement amount at closure was US$165.4 million including
gains from a favorable dollar/naira exchange rate and US$ 0.4 million was cancelled. The
borrower contribution at closure amounted to US$100.4 million. Of the final amount,
US$ 65.2 million was from counterpart funds and US$ 35.2 million from the transport
fund set

3.4     The transport fund received dedicated funding from the Lagos State budget,
license fees, bus concessions and road user charges (tolls). The Lagos State Government
contribution was primarily allocated to finance the bus service improvements component
and the increase in the roads component.

Project Restructuring.
                                            10


3.5     The project was restructured following approval by the World Bank’s Country
Director) in June and August 2005. In both cases, there were some amendments to the
original components, but the project development objectives remained unchanged. The
June 2005 adjustments included:

    The Federal roads that were initially earmarked for maintenance were excluded
     and only state and local roads remained under the project. This was because the
     Federal Ministry of Works agreed to carry out the maintenance of the Federal
     roads in the project area and therefore project funds could be reallocated to other
     components;
    The Lagos State Government counterpart funds contribution to the transport fund
     was rescheduled to start in FY2004-05;
    The road safety performance indicator on the number of pedestrian traffic
     accidents was dropped; the data were found to be inaccurate and were not
     collected.

The direct transfers to the transport fund were also to start later than planned, but were
expected to reach $7.0 million by the end of the project; a further payment of US$5.0
million, however, would be paid separately for road maintenance activities. (In the event
this amount was US$ 8.2 million). Provision for a building for LAMATA was dropped
from the project.

3.6    The August 2005 restructuring allowed the application of 100 percent of IDA
financing to all eligible expenditures, and the reduction of the Lagos State Government’s
annual commitment due to financial constraints. In June 2010 a further restructuring
allowed remaining funds of US$13 million to be expended, among other things, on
technical assistance, additional road upgrading and detailed design for the BRT. The state
government provided the infrastructure for the BRT.

Dates

3.7     The project was approved on November 21, 2002, but only became effective on
30 October 2003 mainly because of differences of opinion on the LAMATA proposal
between the different road and transport agencies. The project was originally scheduled
to close on June 30, 2008, but the closing date was extended three times: first, by a year
in the additional financing project paper from June 2008 to June 30, 2009. Then to
August 31, 2010, and finally December 31, 2010 to complete the implementation of
activities.

Procurement

3.8      At commencement of the project LAMATA engaged the services of an
experienced consultant charged with building capacity in the procurement unit. This
initiative was supplemented by the World Bank though procurement training both within
and outside the country; this was also an effort to mitigate a lack of capacity, an area of
risk identified in the PAD. Over time considerable expertise was built up and the IEG
mission found that a key factor contributing to the good performance of the procurement
function was the strong complement of competent and highly skilled staff. Some of these
                                            11


officers had developed proficiency working for systems in other organizations and in the
preparation of specifications; this was supplemented during the project by training in the
application of Bank procurement procedures. Based on their experience elsewhere, they
demonstrated considerable planning and implementation skills, made good use of
contract management tools and had strong communication skills. Bank procurement
specialists in Abuja supported the view that LAMATA’S procurement unit was efficient
and also said that the procured contracts had unit prices that were lower on average than
those of other organizations in Nigeria funded by the World Bank. The unit was prompt
in paying contractors and applied transparent procurement rules. The implementation
supervision reports were positive and post procurement reviews conducted by Bank staff
were found to be satisfactory.

Fiduciary Management

3.9     At an early stage the financial management staffs were able to migrate from a
transaction-based to a report-based disbursement procedure. LAMATA financial and
accounts department also developed a robust computerized accounting system to generate
timely and reliable financial statements. Processing time was reduced from 21 to 15 days.
Well-respected auditing firms externally audited the project funds and IEG observes that
all annual financial statements were submitted on time and with unqualified opinions.
The IEG mission noted that towards the end of the project resolution of all financial
management issues were found by the auditors to be in compliance with Bank procedures
and the amounts provided by the borrower exceeded the original commitments. Fiduciary
management was overall satisfactory.

Safeguards

3.10 The project was categorized in Environmental Assessment Category “B” under
OP/BP4.01 Environmental Assessment. The World Bank’s safeguard policy Involuntary
Resettlement (OP 4.12) was triggered.

3.11 LAMATA was responsible for carrying out a safeguards assessment with an
emphasis on pedestrian safety and the project’s social and environmental impacts. For
this purpose it established a safeguard unit, which developed an information, education
and communication strategy. It also incorporated a grievance redress mechanism and
prepared procedural manuals on environmental and social assessment. The IEG mission
noted that LAMATA prepared, implemented, enforced and disclosed an Environmental
Management Framework, and on the basis of this framework carried out the resettlement
management plans for the activities where resettlement was required. All sub-
components were screened using the World Bank’s safeguard checklist and the
environmental and social management plans were implemented. As part of safeguard due
diligence, an environmental audit was conducted with a view to evaluating the project’s
safeguard performance. The environmental audit report found the project’s overall
safeguards compliance to be satisfactory.12


12
 LAMATA, 2007, Study on Environment and Social Assessment, Environmental Resources
Management
                                                 12


3.12 The LAMATA safeguards unit undertook an Environmental Impact Assessment
along five corridors and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) along four corridors.13 In
2006 an RAP was implemented to minimize any adverse socio-economic impacts that
might affect the Iyana-Ipaja bus franchise corridor. Following the RAP, LAMATA
provided technical support for the transport union to establish a cooperative to run bus
services and resolve all stakeholder concerns. A further RAP dated March 2008 in respect
of junction improvements, identified that while no households needed relocation, some
435 roadside vendors were affected with various semi-permanent or temporary structures.
But only four needed to be demolished, while others were to be relocated or shifted
backwards. Compensation and logistical measures were addressed in consultation with
community leaders. All RAPs were publicly disclosed.

3.13 A vehicular emission monitoring study was undertaken in respect of the BRT-Lite
corridor. The objective of the study was to raise public awareness and promote better
understanding of the characteristics of air pollution, its related health effects and its
principal sources. In the longer term it was aimed at developing a consensus among
stakeholders around a plan to improve air quality in Lagos. Traffic data, ambient air
monitoring, and vehicle emissions measurements were carried out in the corridor
including data on suspended particulate matter and exhaust emissions. Overall, safeguard
compliance was satisfactory.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1     This chapter is structured according to an assessment of each of the five sub-
objectives and then the program objective. In the case of the second sub-objective
“Enhancing the public transport road network in an environmentally, socially and
financially sustainable manner” the assessment considers each of these aspects
separately.

1. Improving the management of the Lagos Metropolitan Area transport sector

The improvements to the management of the Lagos Metropolitan Area transport sector
were substantial.

Outputs

4.2     LAMATA’s annual operating costs have remained within the indicator target of
less than six percent of overall expenditure throughout the project and this was still the
case when the IEG mission visited in November 2015.

4.3     Two Traffic Management Units were set up and became operational; the original
target was four, but during a re-prioritization of project resources in 2007 this was
reduced to two focused on the areas where the bus franchise scheme and BRT-Lite were
situated. A third Unit was established at a later stage.



13
     A decision was taken not to include the fifth corridor so an RAP was not needed.
                                             13


4.4      Technical assistance to LAMATA and training for its professional staff was
provided in areas such as road management, traffic management, public transport
planning, financial management, procurement, environmental and social assessment,
traffic law enforcement, transport economics, and general management. This included
developing a road map towards full cost recovery by the transport sector in the long term
as well as a transport sector policy and strategy of the Lagos State Government for the
next five years. Consultancy support was provided in the drawing up an appropriate
resettlement policy framework. A proposed new office building for LAMATA (US$ 1.5
million) was dropped because of difficulties in achieving planning permission at the
proposed site.

4.5    A pilot bus franchise scheme was implemented and the project financed
consultancy support for developing a conceptual framework for the scheme.

4.6     A detailed strategic plan was developed and implemented for improving the use
of the waterways of Metropolitan Lagos for transportation purposes, including specific
measures to encourage private sector participation. The Lagos Ferry Services Corporation
(LFSC) was incorporated as a limited liability company in January 2008.

Outcomes

4.7     The Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) was established
by law, but became fully functional with competent staff and all procedural manuals in
place only in August 2005. The original target was 2002, later revised to June 2006 and
ratified as such in the additional financing paper approved in March 2007. The delays
were due to recruiting suitable professional staff, difficulties in clarifying the roles and
functions of the various agencies involved in transport operations and management, and
delays in finalizing the regulatory framework and setting up the transport fund.

4.8     LAMATA has strengthened its capability for the planning, management, and
overall regulation of the transport sector in Lagos State. The law that established
LAMATA in 2002 was strengthened in 2007 to include planning and regulatory functions
across the various modes of transport (with the approval of the Governor). This made the
role of LAMATA as the sector regulator unambiguous. LAMATA operates as an
independent authority along the lines of a private sector organization (see Figure 1).
Since its establishment, LAMATA has contributed to increased awareness for traffic
management, transparency and discipline in procurement and has involved the users in
the decision-making processes. Because LAMATA has flexibility in employee
compensation it has been able to recruit Nigerian professional staff from international
organizations such as Transport for London.

4.9    A regulatory framework for bus service provision was established which
supported the implementation of a pilot bus franchising scheme. Thirteen-meter buses
replaced existing minibuses that were mostly in poor condition. The new buses use street
capacity more efficiently.

4.10 A transport fund was set up in 2004 with resources from the Lagos State budget
as well as license fees (comprising permits, road taxes, license plate and auto
                                               14


registrations), concession fees, and other road user charges, including tolls. LAMATA
successfully made a case on behalf of 36 states to the Joint Tax Board at the federal
government level to increase road user charges, which was shared and implemented in
LAMATA’s case (50 percent), State Treasury (40 percent), the Motor Vehicle Authority
(five percent), and the LMOT (five percent). Similar arrangements were also applicable
for other major cities in Nigeria that wished to follow suit.

4.11 LAMATA oversaw the preparation of a strategic long-term plan master plan for
the transport sector in Lagos that provided an overall vision and strategic direction for
transportation in the metropolitan area. It undertook the implementation of a pilot BRT
system, with preparation and design funded by the World Bank and the project funded by
the state government. It also managed preparatory studies for the follow on project,
Lagos Urban Transport Project 2 (LUPT2). Included was a strategy for the enhanced use
of intermediate means of transport such as bicycles in Metropolitan Lagos.

4.12 At first sight the amount allocated at appraisal for technical assistance may appear
high, but the items included covered capacity building for a variety of stakeholders as
shown in Table 2 below. In Appendix A the costs of the project, and contributions by
financial source are detailed.

Table 2. Key Capacity Building Outputs
 Sub-components                                 Details
 LAMATA                                         Technical assistance for LAMATA to develop
                                                the capacity to effectively discharge its duties.
 Technical Assistance                           Provide technical assistance in areas such as
                                                road management, traffic management, public
                                                transport planning, financial management,
                                                procurement, environmental and social
                                                assessment, traffic law enforcement, transport
                                                economics, general management, etc
 Training                                       Training of LAMATA staff
 Information, Education and Communication       Provide technical assistance to LAMATA to
                                                design and implement a communication
                                                policy, strategy, and action plan to promote
                                                dialogue and consensus partnerships toward
                                                achieving its objectives
 Sector environmental and social assessment     Consultancy support to prepare detailed
                                                Resettlement Policy Framework.
 Elaboration of a cost recovery strategy and    Technical assistance to develop a road map
 implementation plan.                           for moving towards full cost recovery by the
                                                sector in the long term.
 A traffic enforcement strategy and plan.       Technical assistance for developing the traffic
                                                enforcement framework and implement the
                                                critical elements of the plan.
 LAMATA building                                Preparation of building design and bidding
                                                documents.
 Other activities                               Technical assistance to develop transport
                                                sector policy and strategy of Lagos State
                                                Government for five years
                                               15

 Lagos State Ministry of Transport              Technical assistance to strengthen policy-
                                                making and sector performance monitoring
                                                and evaluation functions
 Lagos State Ministry of Works                  Technical assistance to improve planning for
                                                road investments
 Lagos State Ministry of Women's Affairs and    Technical assistance to strengthen poverty
 Poverty Alleviation                            and gender impact monitoring capacity
 Nigerian Police Traffic Unit                   Technical assistance to enhance traffic
                                                enforcement capacity in Lagos.
 Traffic Management Units                       Technical assistance for the creation of
                                                Traffic Management Units in local
                                                government areas
Source: ICR Appendix 2


Figure 1. LAMATA Organization Chart




Source: www.lamata-ng.co

2. Enhancing the public transport road network in an environmentally, socially and
financially sustainable manner

Enhancing the public transport road network in an environmentally, socially and
financially sustainable manner was substantial.
                                                16


Financial Sustainability

Outputs

4.13 In order to restore the road network over which public transport operated,
regarded as a “quick win” because of its visibility, the Credit was originally to finance 76
km. of road overlay,14 567 km of routine maintenance, 50 km. of road rehabilitation, and
70 junction improvements. The declared network included in the project was 632 km. but
initially the plan was to concentrate on 400 km designated as first priority roads until the
transport fund became fully operational. This network included federal, state and local
roads. No agreement, however, was reached with the Federal Ministry of Works in
respect of LAMATA’s right to maintain the federal roads and in 2004 the Federal
Ministry of Works decided to carry out the work on these roads using federal budget
resources. As a result the project focus was shifted to rehabilitating and maintaining state
and local roads. There was no functioning M&E system in place to measure these
changing targets for road improvements. By the time of the Project Paper for additional
financing the bulk of these works had already been completed using the available finance,
and reference was made to the completed maintenance, rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance activities, but it was not possible to compare the final details of completed
works with the revised upgrading targets because they were not recorded.

4.14 There were sufficient savings in the project for the World Bank to provide
technical support for the establishment of a new pilot BRT line. The State of Lagos,
however, provided the capital investment of US$ 36 million. Launched in March 2008,
the new BRT-Lite system was a major step in providing some of Lagos’ commuters with
a clean, affordable and reliable means of getting around in the city. Through the provision
of exclusive lanes and good customer service, BRT-Lite essentially emulated the
performance and amenity characteristics of a modern rail-based transit system, but at a
fraction of the cost.15 The pilot route was 22 km. long from Mile 12 to Lagos Island.
Sixty five percent of the route was physically segregated from the regular roadway and
20 percent by road markings. More expensive systems in other countries have exclusive
rights-of-way for the entire route and substantial stations instead of stops. Since the BRT
system was not part of the project in either the PAD or the Project Paper for additional
financing it is not discussed further in the main text of this PPAR, but because of interest
in the BRT concept more detail is provided in Appendix C.

4.15 A transport fund was set up with resources from the Lagos State budget as well as
license fees

Outcomes

4.16 An ex-post assessment of 57 junctions found that the improvements included
better physical design of roundabouts, dedicated right and left turning lanes, and other


14
   An overlay involves grinding off selected areas of old asphalt, patching potholes and then
resurfacing with a new compacted hot mix asphalt pavement.
15
   World Bank, 2010, Lagos urban Transport Project 2, PAD, Report 49974
                                               17


measures such as pedestrian crossings, road signs, and traffic signal repairs. The ICR16
reported that a 2011 site inspection of 21 roads rehabilitated under the program showed
that they were still structurally intact after three years. The PAD for the follow up project,
LUPT 2, however, discusses the need for additional investment in the declared road
network including routine maintenance of road surface and drainage for 532 km, periodic
maintenance on 12 km. of strategic roads that had degraded but were structurally intact,
and the rehabilitation of five km. identified as structurally damaged.

4.17 This strongly suggests that insufficient maintenance was performed in the
intervening period. Apparently there was a pavement management system, but LUPT 2
provided funds for upgrading it to a road management system that could generate
appropriate management reports from data collected including pavement condition.
Nevertheless, any increased capacity freed up by the LUTP interventions has in the
interim likely been neutralized by further traffic growth. Enforcement of traffic
regulations has also reportedly deteriorated.17

4.18 Regarding the transport fund, the covenanted minimum amount expected as
counterpart funding from the Lagos State Government was originally set at US$ 7.0
million and to be in established by 2004. However, taking account the delays in the early
years of the project, the state government claimed this was unreasonable given its
competing priorities for funds, and so in August 2005 the project was restructured to
reflect a more realistic amount of US$ 2.0 million, provided that US$ 7.0 million was
reached by the end of the project (US$ 6.78 million was attained). Since 2005, and after
the Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA) increased its fees, the transport fund has
brought in revenue to the value of US$ 46.2 million or an average of US$ 6.6 million
each year. In 2014, the latest full year available to IEG, the revenue was US$ 8.3 million
- see Table 3.

Table 3. Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority: Counterpart and Transport Funds
Received from Lagos State (US$ millions)
 Year                     LSG Counterpart           Transport Fund                Total
                          Fund Contribution
 2005                          5.63                        -                  5.63
 2006                          4.50                        -                  4.50
 2007                          2.29                       2.27                4.56
 2008                          6.78                       5.26               12.04
 2009                          5.65                       6.73               12.38
 2010 LUTP end                 6.78                       5.98               12.76
 2011 LUTP 2 begin              -                         6.32                6.32
 2012                          5.90                       6.17               12.07

16
  Implementation and completion results report, page 24
17
  An article in the Economist (November 7, 2015) claims the root of the problem lies in policy.
The new dispensation following the change in government cut the powers of the traffic
controllers from impounding vehicles. In retaliation officers have been refusing to enforce the
rules.
                                             18

 2013                           7.11                    7.45              14.56
 2014                           6.39                    8.29              14.68
Source: LAMATA

4.19 According to the PAD for LUTP 2, by 2009 LAMATA was able to meet 60
percent of its operational funding requirements, but the IEG mission was unable to
establish the current percentage since such needs vary from year to year. It appears that
the general shortage of available funds results in priority only being given to essential
road repairs and high priority projects in discussion with various transport authorities,
although the road management system now under implementation will at least be able to
put a figure to total needs. Implementation supervision reports for LUPT 2 indicate that
only about two thirds of the scheduled work is completed on time. This said, the progress
in setting up the Fund and gaining commitment from the stakeholders was substantial.
The follow-on project is assisting a move to full cost recovery in the short to medium
term. With the recent launch of a new operating contract for the BRT extension, franchise
fee recovery rates are expected to improve.

Environmental Sustainability

4.20 According to the World Bank, Little Green Data Book, 201518 94 percent of the
Nigerian population is exposed to air pollution levels exceeding World Health
Organization guidelines (compared to 72 percent for sub-Saharan Africa as a whole).
Over 50 percent of the transport contribution to greenhouse gas emissions in Nigeria
emanate from Lagos alone.19 It was estimated by the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
that the total vehicle population in Lagos is approximately 1.2 million (representing about
55 percent of the total vehicle population in Nigeria), out of which, approximately 72,000
are public transport vehicles (mostly mini-buses). Though no systematic data exists,
vehicles are estimated to contribute over 70 percent of the ambient air pollution in the
city.20

Outputs

4.21 Clear targets were not established, but a study by LAMATA between 2003 and
2007 at eight monitoring stations on key bus routes indicated that vehicle emissions
contributed approximately 43 percent of ambient air pollution on the routes measured.
The results showed that vehicular emissions also accounted for almost half of the total
particulate matter emission within the bus route study area. In addition traffic control
officers and a control group were subjected to pulmonary tests using a standard portable
spirometer. The tests showed a high prevalence of respiratory symptoms.

4.22 Under this project, older and smaller buses were replaced with 220 newer and
larger ones. A further 400 more buses were purchased after project closure to meet
customer demand.


18
   www.data.worldbank.org/data-books/little-data-book/little-green-data-book
19
   Komolafe, A et al, 2014 Air Pollution and Climate Change in Lagos, Nigeria, American
Journal of Environmental Sciences 10(4): 412-423, 2014
20
   Global Environmental Facility, 2008, Input to proposal for LUPT 2.
                                             19


Outcomes

4.23 As a result of replacing older and smaller buses with buses that were newer and
larger,21 better operating conditions and a small shift from private cars to buses of
between five and ten percent, depending on the route, LAMATA claimed a reduction in
CO2 emissions on selected routes of 13 percent per year, or about 24.7 kilotons for the
period 2008-2009, as subsequently reported in the Lagos CO2 Emissions Assessment
Handbook (June, 2010).22 In the intervening period it is likely, however, that the impact
of these early gains had diminished as the vehicles began to age, and overall pollution in
Lagos deteriorated further. Another study was completed in 2013 to estimate a baseline
for greenhouse gas emissions in the corridors for the follow-up BRT project, LUPT 2. It
reveals that the average age of vehicles in Lagos is 15 years. A baseline saving of 1,100
kilotons of CO2 emissions saved was estimated, but these figures are being examined
more closely under the GEF financed component of LUPT 2. Enhanced environmental
sustainability has made modest progress in the right direction.

Social Sustainability

Outputs

4.24 Stakeholder involvement was principally through the Safeguards and External
Relations Units of LAMATA. The latter has the mandate to follow-up on issues raised by
the public, and chairs an internal user‘s services group, which meets regularly. IEG
confirmed from perusing the minutes that such meetings took place.

Outcomes

4.25 No targets were set for the road network such as improvements in road roughness
as such. The needs of the passengers were determined through rigorous quantitative and
qualitative surveys that established information on travel time, gender issues, fare
elasticity, and to understand reasons for the choice of transport means. Moreover, regular
focus group meetings were held to explore in detail the travel-related issues faced by
different demographic groups in Lagos and later to test features of the proposed BRT-
Lite. Information from these meetings was used to improve the quality of the services
offered.

4.26 Time spent by members of poor households on bus travel per trip along project
corridor: The baseline (2005) was 30 minutes. The target set in 2007 was 24 minutes, and
at completion 20 minutes was achieved. This saving in travel time excludes time saved in
waiting at the bus stop resulting from higher bus frequency and better scheduling. On
average the reduction in journey time was 40 percent and that of waiting time 30 percent.
In the latter case waiting time on average was reduced from ten minutes to four minutes


21
   Typically new buses were Euro II compliant. European Emission Standards were introduced to
define limits for the exhaust emissions of new vehicles. Euro II compliance is now below the
limits currently expected in Europe, but in a developing country they can be regarded as a
significant step in the right direction.
22
   Lagos State Government, CO2 Emissions Handbook, June 2010
                                               20


because of the more frequent service. Passengers also experienced fewer transfers in their
journeys.

4.27 The amount spent by poor households on bus travel along the corridors improved
by the project fell from 20 percent of income to 12 percent of income during 2005-2010
(the numerical target was 15 percent). In real terms, however, the target was achieved
(i.e. taking account of the 63 percent change in the Consumer Price Index during the
period); the amount spent on travel in 2010 is a reduction of 45 percent since 2005.

4.28 Workdays of labor created: the baseline was 390,000 (2005), the target was
700,000 and at completion 1,660,000 workdays were claimed.23 The IEG mission accepts
that the direct employment data are likely valid, but the indirect employment estimate
looks too high. Overall, substantial progress has been made in the establishment of a
socially sustainable public transport system.

3. Enhancing bus services

Enhancement of bus service provision was substantial.

Outputs

4.29 A regulatory framework for bus service provision was established which
supported the implementation of a pilot bus franchising scheme. Thirteen-meter buses
(costing US$ 100,000 each) replaced existing minibuses that were mostly in poor
condition. The new buses used street capacity more efficiently. Operator incentives were
introduced to encourage safer driving and more reliable services along coordinated
routes. Both the driver’s union and the owner’s union accepted the franchising concept
after considerable negotiation and a study tour organized by the World Bank to
successful operations in Latin America (Bogota and Curitiba). A commercial bank agreed
to provide finance for the buses on condition that it had an initial lien on revenue
collected from the bus fares and the right to act as ticket distributor and security monitor.
Participating operators, though, had to accept collective liability (route operating
cooperatives) for all the obligations into which they had entered. Any individual default,
whether by embezzlement of revenues or through vehicle unavailability (perhaps as a
result of an accident or mechanical failure), were to be met by an additional charge on all
the remaining members.

4.30 The loans were paid off in only two years, which proved the viability of the bus
franchise scheme to the lenders after which other banks became interested in
participating. The scheme included an operator development function in partnership with
the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). However, in view of the lack
of capacity and experience of NURTW in operating large-scale scheduled bus services,

23
  These estimates are based on the completion report prepared by the borrower (March 2011).
Direct employment was defined as created in bus depots, terminals, additional bus fare collectors,
inspectors, etc. The indirect employment was created by improved access to job opportunities
along the corridors, improved maintenance requirements, additional employment in commercial
banks financing bus purchases, increased business opportunities along the corridor and a
multiplier impact.
                                            21


support was mobilized by LAMATA in organizing, operating and scheduling the bus
services. The vehicle maintenance function was outsourced to the vehicle supplier, which
provided full technical support including trained personnel and spare parts. Financial
management functions were provided by a commercial bank, while operations
management was outsourced to a specialist business handling large vehicle fleets. These
arrangements were all aimed at improving sustainability.

4.31 About 500 drivers were also trained in customer care. The original target for the
pilot bus franchise (15,000 bus-km) was tripled (to 45,000 bus-km) for the two chosen
corridors (Iyana-Ipaja-Ikotun and Mile 2 - Church Missionary Society). More than
100,000 passengers use the buses on these corridors daily instead of using poorly
operated and maintained small buses.

4.32 During project implementation, 12 workshops were held which involved a broad
section of stakeholders, divided into ten groups, The stakeholders included the state
government, public transport users, private vehicle users, people living along the
transport corridors, bus owners, bus operators and their associations, vendors and other
commercial operators in the project area, suppliers of buses and bus-related parts and
equipment, as well as pedestrians, commercial banks and NGOs. The views of the
stakeholders were translated into activities to improve service quality.

4.33 The project also provided funds for the preparation (studies and design) of the
BRT-Lite pilot project. The Lagos State Government at a cost of US$ 36 million
provided the capital for the infrastructure.

4.34 The pilot BRT scheme was not part of the original project or part of the additional
financing agreement. However, during implementation an opportunity arose for the
World Bank to support the State of Lagos to implement such a scheme. The World Bank
financed feasibility studies, project design, exposure to good practices through study
tours, participation in international seminars and knowledge sharing, while the Lagos
State Government provided the finance for the construction. The extension of the scope
was approved by way of a level two restructuring. Improvements made to the corridor
including the designation of dedicated lines for buses, road surface improvements on and
adjacent to the exclusive lines, bus terminals, bus stops, bus shelters, lay-bys, ticketing
activities and traffic system management measures. The BRT-Lite service, Mile 2 to
CMS corridor, carries over 220,000 passengers per day, see also Appendix C.

Outcomes

4.35     In addition to benefiting the poor households as a result of improved bus
services (para 4.23-4.24), the user surveys conducted by local firms and NGOs helped in
defining the project and achieving its public acceptance. User beneficiary responses were
obtained by random samples (500 households) and also analyzing results from 900
respondents that included commuters, women and disadvantaged groups, NGOs and civil
society organizations as well as transport operators. Public perceptions were generally
positive, as demonstrated by the surge in demand to use the better and cheaper public
transport including calls for the construction of an expanded network. Commuters
reported quicker journey times, lower costs of travel, greater comfort, and clean well-
                                              22


maintained vehicles. They also felt more secure. Passengers learnt to form orderly queues
and it was considered positive that the new buses were better equipped and designed to
accommodate persons with disabilities. The main issues cited by riders concerned public
safety (safety was better on the buses compared with the minibuses), comfort (degree of
overcrowding was less on buses), fares (buses are cheaper) and journey times (shorter by
bus).

4.36 More recent surveys of the franchised bus operation were not undertaken after the
project closed, but a passenger satisfaction survey was conducted for the pilot BRT-lite
line after project closure in December 2010. The top three favorable factors in service
quality according to the passengers were affordability (0.783), comfort (0,775) and safety
(0.695). However, in January 2016, following complaints by the public about poor
service quality and extensive waiting times, the Lagos State Government terminated the
BRT franchise in the Ikorodu corridor citing frequency schedules below 50 percent fleet
capacity contrary to the agreement.24 A new operator has been appointed and service
monitoring improved.

4. Promoting water and non-motorized transport.

The promotion of water transport and non-motorized services was modest.

Outputs

4.37 The Lagos Ferry Services Company (LFSC) has been established. The company
was granted a universal license to operate on all designated ferry routes.

4.38 The project financed repairs, additions and rehabilitation works of selected
existing water transport terminal facilities, including the construction of improved
parking facilities in the vicinity of some jetties. Four jetties were improved or constructed
under the project and are now operational. The original target was two. To put this in
perspective, these were large jetties, but there were 27 jetties in total.

4.39 A detailed strategic plan was developed and implemented for improving the usage
of the waterways of Metropolitan Lagos. Its main platforms were mobilizing the private
sector, identifying needed improvements, coordinating with other transport modes and
improving waterway safety.

4.40 A study of intermediate means of transport was completed. This covered the
existing and potential use of animal and handcarts, wagons, bicycles and wheelbarrows,
among other things, in the urban context of Lagos. The study recommendations were not
pursued further in this project since they were not considered by LAMATA as a priority,
but more attention is now being given under the follow-on project.

Outcomes

4.41 Initially there was a dispute between the Lagos State Government and the
National Inland Waterways Authority with regard to the responsibility for licensing

24
     The News, January 2, 2016, Lagos terminates NURTW BRT franchise in Ikorudu corridor
                                               23


waterway operators in the state, but the former prevailed in 2008 and the Lagos State
Waterways Authority (LASWA) came into being.25 LASWA monitors private operators
to ensure they operate within the waterways law, but has limited capacity and funds.
Although progress has been made with the availability of lifejackets for passengers, there
are still avoidable accidents reported. Progress with attracting private sector investment
has also been much slower than anticipated and LASWA’s target of 60 million passenger
trips by 2021 looks over-ambitious. The IEG mission noted, however, that on certain
routes there has been an attempt to improve intermodal connections between the ferries
and the buses and LFSC will now try to concession the most used terminals.

4.42 The repairs, additions, and rehabilitation of existing terminal facilities as well as
the jetty improvements have led to an upsurge in the numbers of passengers using the
services. From 2.62 million passenger trips in 2007, patronage has increased to 22.0
million in 2014 and 26.40 million in 2015. This is still comparatively small and
represents about 1.5 percent of all commuter trips by all modes compared with about 0.5
percent previously. However, each ferry passenger is one less person using the roads.

4.43 The indicator target was to privatize LFSC. Nominally, this has been done, but the
sole initial investor in the concession (2016) is the state government. It operates as
LAGFERRY and has purchased or refurbished the ferries now used on the primary
routes. However, there has as yet been limited interest by the private sector to become
franchisees despite the fact that there are over 200 ferries operated by 50 private
individuals or groups. This may be because the stated mandate to deliver water transport
to previously underserved areas is not seen as the most profitable investment in
comparison to competing for the most trafficked routes. A new venture operating
successfully since 2009 is Metroferry Marine Services Ltd., but many small operators
have dubious safety records and old vessels providing a low quality of service.

5. Preparing Future Phases of the Program

Preparation for future phases of the program was substantial.

4.44 The activities were mainly outputs not outcomes. They were all accomplished,
however and comprised:

       A transport master plan for metropolitan Lagos;
       An institutional reform plan for the transport sector, in particular on reform of the
        MVA system;
       Strategy for the enhanced use of intermediate (non-motorized) means of transport
        in metropolitan Lagos;
       Studies for the next phase of implementation of the policy and strategy, including
        the resettlement plans for the implementation of rail mass transit in the Agege-
        Iddo corridor.




25
     National Inland Waterways Authority Act (Repeal) Law, 2008
                                             24


4.43 The achievement of the overall program objective is derived from the outcomes of
the five sub-objectives. In summary, based on the analysis of responses to user surveys,
improvements to the transport services, especially for public transport users and the poor
in the Lagos Metropolitan Area, have been substantially achieved, albeit with some
minor shortcomings. The benefits to the poor bus users include savings in journey time,
lower fare costs, fewer transfers, more comfort, and greater security. Benefits to ferry
users are similar, but on a much smaller scale.

Efficiency

4.45 At project appraisal an economic analysis was undertaken for the road network
efficiency improvement component comprising rehabilitation, routine maintenance,
bridge repairs and traffic management, this represented 60 percent of the total project
cost. The same methodology using the standard Highway Development Model was used
to estimate the economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value of each of the
proposed road works and for the aggregate works including the junction improvement
program. The overall ex-post rate of return given in the ICR was 67 percent compared to
56 percent at appraisal.

4.46 IEG has looked at the methodology used and finds that the ex post ERR of 67
percent is overstated. Maintenance, overlays and rehabilitation account for 89.4 percent
of the items included in the ICR analysis. In the case of maintenance the ERR was lower
than at appraisal and for overlays and rehabilitation only two percent higher. This
suggests that the ex post ERR is unlikely to be much higher than the 56 percent at
appraisal.

4.47 On the other hand, the project would likely also have resulted in small short-term
benefits in terms of improved traffic safety, and carbon dioxide emissions reduction, but
these benefits were not included in the economic analysis because the former could not
be quantified due to unreliable data, while the latter were partially measured for the bus
corridors only and the environment benefits may not be sustained as a result of
continuous growth of traffic in the city. Overall, even if the ERR is overstated, it is still
likely to be at least 56 percent, well over the threshold level of 12 percent.

4.48 No economic analysis was undertaken for the sub-components for capacity
building, water transport promotion, or for the preparation for the pilot BRT. Measuring
the benefits of the critical capacity building and organizational aspects was difficult in the
absence of a functioning M&E system, which was not in place until the additional
financing Project Paper in 2007. The water transport aspects were not well connected to
the main project and were measured mostly in terms of outputs. Indeed there is a
disconnect in the sense that the efficiency aspect of the project focuses heavily on the
benefits of improved road works, while much of the discussion is centered on transport
services.

4.49 Regarding BRT-Lite, the project financed technical support for the pilot, which
was funded by the Lagos State Government. LAMATA was unable to furnish an
economic analysis for BRT-Lite, but advised that revenues collected amount annually by
the operator amount to over US$ 16.5 million. LAMATA also confirmed that they budget
                                             25


US$ 1.3 million a year for maintenance of the BRT infrastructure. ERR’s have since been
calculated at appraisal for the two corridors financed by the World Bank under LUTP 2,
and are 17 and 15 percent respectively.

4.50 The project was delayed by two and half years and took eleven months to reach
effectiveness. These delays were due to recruiting suitable professional staff, to clarifying
the roles and functions of the various agencies involved in transport operations and
management, and in setting up the regulatory framework and the transport fund. There
was an under estimation by US$ 60 million in the cost of the road works, which was part
of the reason for a request for additional financing approved in 2007.

4.51 While the cost of the institution-building component at completion appears large
it was because the project was delayed and capacity support was needed for an additional
2.5 years. It was also expanded to cover additional scope assigned to LAMATA by the
state government including BRT planning, design, and regulation, among other things.

4.52 In fairness, there are some other positive indications of efficiency. LAMATA has
been able to reverse a prevailing culture whereby suppliers and consultants paid little
attention to quality, and cost of services. It has addressed this through designing terms of
reference and product specifications more clearly and precisely. A rigorous selection
procedure is followed to ensure that the suppliers that are best able to deliver are
contracted. Nevertheless, there still remains an issue with on-time completion of projects,
since the implementation supervision reports indicate that only one third of contracts are
completed in the time originally agreed.

4.53 LAMATA’s procurement process has nevertheless resulted in the delivery of road
works at a relatively low cost per km compared to similar works managed and financed
by other Ministries and agencies. For example, the average cost per km. (of a 7.3m single
carriageway) is US$ 1.4 million, compared with US$ 2.8 million by MOWI. In addition,
the roads provided by LAMATA includes service ducts, sidewalks, streetlights road
markings and traffic signs, whereas, MOWI, despite the high cost, provides only service
ducts.

4.54   The overall project efficiency is substantial.

5. Ratings
Outcome
5.1     Relevance of the objectives and of design is substantial, despite being hampered
by the failure to implement a results framework in the first few years of the project. Four
of the five sub-objectives were substantially achieved: (a) improving the management of
the Lagos metropolitan transport sector; (b) enhancing the public transport road network
in an environmentally, socially and financially sustainable manner; (c) enhancing bus
services; and (e) prepare future phases of the Program. One sub-objective was modestly
achieved: (d) promoting water and non-motorized transport. Efficiency is assessed as
substantial. Despite the good rate of return, there were serious shortcomings because of
the significant delays that occurred. It was, moreover, recognized that preparing “future
                                             26


phases of the program” was really an input rather than an output. However, cognizance
was also taken of the progress of capacity building in the very difficult circumstances
prevailing in the Lagos Metropolitan Area. The overall Program Objective, whereby
improvements to the transport services, for public transport users and the poor has been
substantially achieved is also taken into consideration in the final outcome rating. Taking
into account the moderate shortcomings of achieving the project development objectives,
the outcome is moderately satisfactory.

Risk to Development Outcome
5.2     Risk to development outcome is considered moderate. Ownership of the project
is now evident at the highest levels in the Lagos State Government, despite initial issues
concerning jurisdiction and overlapping responsibilities. Strengthened legislation with
regard to the LAMATA law in 2007 helped clarify its regulatory powers across the
various modes of transport. However, the federal roads in Lagos are still the
responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Works, which raises a question about the
sufficiency of funds to maintain them in future, despite assurances that they will meet
regularly with LAMATA to discuss future needs. Institutional capacity developed by
LAMATA to deal with technical and environmental issues has substantially improved the
management of the urban transport sector in Lagos State and it is being further
strengthened under the implementation of the follow-on project. The retention and
consolidation of high-caliber professionals to lead LAMATA reduces the risk that the
outcomes will be neglected. The setting up of the transport fund and the raising of fees by
the MVA has been an important step in the right direction. Although the inflow to the
Fund covers only 60 percent of recurrent and periodic maintenance needs in the road
sector, adequate provision for maintenance of the BRT service has been provided for. In
the PAD it was indicated that it was a longer-term goal to achieve 100 percent cost
recovery, but further steps to reform the MVA system are expected to close this gap. In
comparison, the water transport services remain cash starved and insufficiently attractive
to the private sector. Overall, there is still a degree of dependency on World Bank
injections of funds to maintain a stable situation in urban transport in Lagos.

5.3     The government has commenced railway construction for the implementation of
rail mass transit in the Agege-Iddo rail corridor – an underused facility. There are plans to
expand the BRT system to other corridors in the city as part of the recommendations of
the Metropolitan Lagos Master Plan. A cable car route is also being studied, which will
only be implemented if sufficient private sector investors are in support. However,
political factors remain a significant threat in Lagos and the complex and fragile
governance situation remains a concern.26 This is exacerbated by the current economic
situation in Nigeria, which is deteriorating with the lower oil prices, given that 70 percent
of government revenue comes from that source.

5.4     The qualified success of the model to involve the transport union in the bus and
BRT schemes to some extent ensured their future support and commercial banks are now
willing to make available loans for the purchase of buses. However, the situation can be

26
  Gomez-Ibanez JA, 2011, Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, a case study, Urban
Planning and Public Policy, Harvard University, USA
                                              27


unstable and volatile at times. The Chairman of NURWT was assassinated in March
2015, and in January 2016 the Lagos State Government had to terminate the franchise
issued to NURTW to operate a BRT service along the Ikorodu corridor.27 This was due to
non-compliance with operational requirements concerning the level of service stipulated
in the franchise agreement they signed. This said the willingness of the state government
to take action is commendable and a new operator is now in place while service
monitoring is to be more frequent. The fact that the government was willing to take
serious action and to heed complaints from users has strengthened their hand in dealing
with future operators. It is clear that the integration of existing operators into new bus
franchise services without fundamental transformation of the business models underlying
those services is at best a transitional strategy and not sustainable in the long run.

Bank Performance
Quality at entry

5.5     For quality at entry Bank performance, is moderately satisfactory. Preparation
began with studies leading to the promulgation of the law establishing LAMATA in
2002, which was crucial to the project. In addition, all preparatory studies, engineering
designs and procurement documents for the first year activities were completed. An
Environment Management Plan was also prepared and disclosed, while safeguard studies
including a Resettlement Policy Framework were finalized. The project preparation team
applied lessons learned from similar urban transport projects in sub-Saharan Africa and
other regions such as Latin America, and adapted them to the particular circumstances in
Nigeria. Among the most frequent problems found in previous transport projects in the
country were insufficient focus on institutional strengthening, insufficient capacity
building within the civil service structure, unreliable counterpart funding, and lack of
transparency in procurement procedures. The project sensibly focused first on fast-return
investments such as road maintenance, rehabilitation, and junction improvements.

5.6     The objectives in the appraisal document and the legal agreement were not
consistent. A full workable results framework was not in place when the project
commenced. Baseline data were unavailable to begin with and not all desired outcomes
were covered by the M&E system. However, after initial delays, and by the time the
results framework had been finalized implementation had begun to gather momentum.

5.7     The project was subject to a review by the World Bank’s Quality Assurance
Group in June 2003, which was concerned about the difficult country context and
relatively complex design and gave a rating of marginally satisfactory. Concern was
expressed that the implementation of the physical components might sidetrack the Lagos
authorities and even the World Bank from the objective of promoting the institutional and
cost recovery improvements that the PAD rightfully identified as the project’s top
priority. This risk, they said, is compounded by the fact that LAMATA will be a new
agency and will face inevitable teething problems associated with start-up, as well as
potential opposition from other agencies jealous to protect their turf. They further opined


27
     The News, January 2, 2016, Lagos terminates NURTW BRT franchise in Ikorudu corridor
                                            28


that the project team was unduly optimistic and that a smaller project might be more
appropriate.

5.8     An expert advisor to the team sent an email message to the Decision Meeting held
on April 4, 2003 that expressed similar views. He endorsed the central institutional thrust
in the development of a strong transport planning and management function for the city,
but said there was a danger that the project pretended to address all issues, and as a
consequence had a Christmas tree appearance. He did not get the impression that much
was going to be achieved through the environmental provisions.

However, albeit with all the concerns over the complexity of the projects and the initial
delays, the complexity did not derail the project implementation, the physical work
activities were completed and the objectives were substantially achieved. The project’s
priorities of promoting the institutional and cost recovery improvements were fully
achieved. On the other hand, at effectiveness a proper monitoring and evaluation system
was not in place, while at approval of additional finance there was a reduction in the
number of traffic management units to be set up, and over time the closing date was
progressively extended by two and a half years.

Quality of supervision

5.9     Quality of supervision, considering the difficult circumstances in Lagos, is
satisfactory. The supervision team was well staffed, and combined international
expertise on urban transport with in depth knowledge of the country. The team was able
to assist in resolving many problems such as the amount of counterpart funding that
should be paid to the transport fund from the Lagos State Government in the light of the
tardy progress on the project. The project was restructured twice to introduce a more
flexible funds transfer requirement and clarify the issue of LAMATA’s responsibility in
managing the road network. LAMATA’s capacity was greatly strengthened and strong
management systems were put in place on the basis of the World Bank’s advice including
the preparation of manuals and procedures. Given the gradual improvement in
disbursements the development objectives and implementation progress ratings were
eventually revised to satisfactory in the implementation supervision reports.

5.10 When additional financing was made available for the project the team missed an
opportunity to revise the poorly written development objectives, but this was not done,
perhaps to avoid having to submit the Project Paper to the Board instead of the Country
Director. Nevertheless, the supervision team deserves credit for helping the borrower to
accomplish a relatively successful project in very difficult circumstances.

5.11 The World Bank listened to the borrower and sought ways to resolve issues in a
collaborative manner. Technical assistance, though there were perhaps too many studies,
was commensurate with the needs of the project - for instance the financing of BRT study
tours were crucial in bringing the transport union on board, and helped in making the
conception and implementation of the new bus systems become a reality. The World
Bank’s procurement and financial management procedures set the project on a sound
footing and gave credibility to LAMATA as a transparent organization.
                                            29


5.12 The World Bank was proactive in discharging its obligations, such that, for
example, there was little or only minimal delay in providing no-objections; and the World
Bank‘s relationship with LAMATA was one of mutual respect. When windfall funds
became available the World Bank was able to motivate that these funds be used to
support the BRT design. The collaborative approach of the World Bank staff, reported in
the borrower’s ICR, played an important role in ensuring that LAMATA properly led
implementation with progressively reduced Bank involvement that ultimately contributed
to the project’s sustainability.

5.13   The overall Bank performance is moderately satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
Government

5.14 The Lagos State Government’s ownership and commitment were clearly present
at the time of project identification and appraisal and sustained during implementation.
Government performance was satisfactory. Commitment was demonstrated through two
successive elected Governors’ Administrations, which fully supported institutional, legal,
and regulatory reforms in the public transport sector, and supported a dedicated transport
fund, partly financed through user charges, to finance public transport investments in
Lagos.

5.15 The first three years, however, were difficult and characterized by a slow start due
to the complexity of the multimodal operation and the time taken to recruit suitable
professional staff in LAMATA. Lack of a clear mandate on the ability of LAMATA to
carry out maintenance on the federal roads led to delays in project start up. Eventually in
2004 the federal government Ministry of Works decided to undertake this work itself
using its own budgetary resources. There were also delays in setting up the transport fund
and in making direct transfers to it. Resistance to change by multiple agencies and
organizations involved in transport operations and management became a key challenge
that was only finally resolved in 2007 when the LAMATA law was amended to clarify
the role and functions of LAMATA as the agency responsible for bus regulations and to
enter into concessional contracts with bus operators.

5.16 The state government ensured approval of the LAMATA legislation, provided
support to empower, resource and establish it, and streamlined responsibilities within the
government to better define the role and mandate of LAMATA as a planning and
regulatory body. Although the state government was partly responsible for insufficient
counterpart funding early in implementation, it subsequently offered timely solutions, and
was willing to restructure the project, such that by closure, the state government had
financed over US$ 100 million from the state budget and transport fund towards project
activities including the capital costs of the pilot BRT line. Its final contribution was
considerably greater than the initial US$ 35 million specified at appraisal.

5.17 The then Commissioner of Transport led a delegation to view BRT systems in
South America and was appointed to chair the BRT steering committee. He acted as an
important bridge between the technical experts and the Governor. The momentum created
                                           30


by the implementation of BRT-Lite and the positive public perception ensured that
commitment was maintained when a new Governor and Administration came into power.

5.18 The leadership at the state government level for the coordination required with
other entities was of paramount importance in dealing with institutions representing
different transport modes with vested interests and in establishing clear lines of
communication between the federal government and the metropolitan area, which often
had different priorities and objectives.

Implementing agency

5.19 Implementing agency performance was satisfactory. LAMATA achieved high
standards in exercising its responsibility for the formulation, coordination, and
implementation of urban transport policies and programs in the Lagos Metropolitan Area.
Although it took time, many highly competent Nigerians working abroad in senior
positions including organizations such as Transport for London were encouraged to
return and support the agency. Leadership shown by the Managing Director was
passionate and exemplary – a major success factor for LAMATA. According to the
World Bank project supervision team, one of the key reasons for project success was
LAMATA’s performance led by this professional management team. LAMATA’s
management recognized the importance of hiring competent people; enforcing a culture
of dedication and integrity, where teamwork was the norm, and where all staff shared a
common goal. The Managing Director has since been appointed as Traffic Commissioner
for Lagos, but the IEG mission was impressed by the caliber and professionalism of the
entire team.

5.20 A weakness in LAMATA has been the initial failure to recognize the importance
of measuring progress through a proper M&E system. The organization is adept at public
relations, but economical at providing facts and figures to back up its assertions. On the
other hand, the implementation of the BRT scheme (which was not even mentioned in the
formative years of the project) was achieved in a record time of 15 months, as compared
with four to five years for similar schemes in many other developing countries. This was
largely due to the active involvement of key stakeholders including the local transport
union. Selected stakeholders including union representatives were taken on a study tour
to see successful BRT operations in other countries.

5.21 LAMATA demonstrated competence in complying with Bank procurement
requirements, and is recognized by the World Bank as an agency that follows good
practice with regard to compliance with safeguards policies. LAMATA has rapidly
expanded its BRT lines since the project closed and is supported by LUPT2, the follow
up project. A Transport Master Plan is now in place and LAMATA is coordinating
progress in all the transport modes supported by funds from the French Development
Agency the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) and the World Bank.

5.22   Overall borrower performance is rated: satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION
                                             31


Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design

5.23 At the time of original project design, three sets of indicators (shown in the PAD)
were selected to measure the project outcomes: (i) time and money spent on personal
travel activities by poor households; (ii) person-days of labor created; and (iii) number of
accidents. The third indicator on road safety was eventually removed because the data
available were found to be unreliable. However, establishing a baseline and a reporting
system, which should have been carried out before project approval in 2002, was not
done given priority and hampered progress as the project proceeded.

M&E Implementation

5.24 M&E was rated unsatisfactory in the early years of the project because the results
framework was not completed until 2006. A consultant was appointed to undertake the
survey and proposed a workable M&E framework. According to the Mid-term Review
the baseline data and indicators were to be finalized only in November 2005. A new
baseline was established in September 2006, but only when the Project Paper for
additional financing was approved in 2007, was it formally adopted.

5.25 When additional financing was approved the outcome indicators were better
aligned with the project objectives in that the target average waiting time on the pilot bus
route was reduced, (Appendix B). However, some important aspects of the project related
to poverty, for example, were poorly taken into account or not at all.

5.26 No new indicators specific to the BRT were formally introduced as the
opportunity to support BRT only arose later. Nevertheless, as the project matured, the
importance and relevance of the BRT sub component became evident and thus a new
results framework was specifically developed for it and additional data collected (see
Table 3). Extensive monitoring surveys were conducted and stakeholder workshops were
held and used to strengthen BRT design. This additional information formed the basis of
LUTP 2, but was still under development in LUTP.

M&E Utilization
5.27 The indicators used in the project were instrumental in providing the basis for
defining and selecting key indicators for the follow-up operation (LUTP2), which in
addition to improved monitoring of institutional development and capacity building, also
monitors CO2 emissions and concentration of pollutants. Both the M&E tools and the
framework developed are now used for Lagos State Government projects.

6. Lessons
6.1     Several lessons are drawn from this assessment, some based on the ICR and
others from IEG’s own analysis:

Setting up a strong institutional basis for coordinated planning and regulation is
critical to the success of urban transport projects. However, such changes take time
and need to be supported by strong commitment from top officials and politicians to
ensure the integrity of governance changes as in the case of the establishment of
                                             32


LAMATA. Supporting legislation is essential and the roles and responsibilities of all
transport entities affected need to be worked through. The recruitment of experienced
international staff enabled the creation of a strong authority and the ability to move
beyond the project and begin to implement an ambitious reform agenda.

The challenges facing cities with respect to urban transport and its governance are
of long duration and not quickly fixed. The Bank had its first intervention in the city
with the Lagos Urban Transport Project, followed by the second Lagos Urban Transport
Project, this continuous engagement by the Bank is a compelling requirement to sustain
progress in urban transport sector. It should also be noted that urban transport projects
require longer periods for implementation—seven years or longer when many authorities
are involved.

Critical to the success of the project was steady progress with the institutional
reforms and the establishment of a transport fund, which contributed to the positive
outcome by improving financial sustainability. The team targeted the right priorities in
a comprehensive capacity building program and ensured that the necessary preparations
and commitments were made to establish a sustainable transport fund. However, while
financial self-sufficiency for institutions is an important longterm goal, it may take longer
to achieve than has been previously recognized.

World Bank supervision teams need flexibility and the ability to adjust the project
to take advantage of opportunities that may arise. In this case, the enthusiasm of the
politicians in the State of Lagos to pursue the BRT project presented such an opportunity,
and the team was able to use windfall funding to help the pilot BRT project to become a
reality by financing the design and related costs and in providing technical advice from
the World Bank’s global experience. The concept of BRT was adapted to the African
context so that it was more affordable to the poor in Lagos.

Observing the experience of other countries or cities where new public transport
concepts have worked successfully can convince local stakeholders to adopt a new
approach. In this case it convinced key stakeholders, including the trade unions, to agree
to adopt the franchising and BRT concepts locally. That said, the integration of existing
operators into new bus franchise services without fundamental transformation of business
models underlying those services is at best a transitional strategy and not sustainable in
the long run.
                                                    33


References
Aide memoires, project progress reports, audit reports and implementation status reports
Banjo, G and Mobereola, D, 2012, LAMATA: Its Genesis, Design, Performance and Future Prospects, paper
        delivered at CODATU XV Meeting, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Economist, 2015, Special Report on Nigeria, Nigeria’s Opportunity, June 20, 2015
Korea Transport Institute, 2014, Nigeria Lagos Urban Transport Master Plan, Final Report, Pyunghwa
        Engineering Consultants
Filano, M, 2012, the Changing Face of Lagos, Cities Alliance
Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, 2013, Data gathering to implement GHG emissions reduction
       assessment methodology for LUPT II BRT corridors, Lagos State Government, July 30, 2013, Lagos,
       Nigeria
Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, 2010, ICR for LUTP, Sages, December 2010
Gomez-Ibanez JA, 2011, Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, a case study, Urban Planning and
       Public Policy, Harvard University, USA
IEG, 2013, ICR Review Report, Lagos Urban Transport Project
Kawaguchi H and Hamada K, 2013, Cross Sector Metropolitan Coordinating Bodies for Urban Transportation
       Research in Developing Countries, Paper presented at the 92nd Annual Transportation Research Board
       Meeting, Washington DC
Komolafe, A et al, 2014 Air Pollution and Climate Change in Lagos, Nigeria: Need for Proactive Approaches to
       Risk Management and Adaption, American Journal of Environmental Sciences 10(4): 412-423, 2014
Kumar A and Agarwal O, 2013, Institutional Labyrinth: Designing a Way Out for Improving Urban Transport
       Services – Lessons from Current Practice, Working Paper 84066, World Bank, Washington DC
Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, 2003, Procedural Manual on environmental and social
       assessment, Direnny Ltd
Lagos State Government, 2009, Lagos CO2 emission assessment handbook, Integrated Transport Planning Ltd.,
        Lagos, Nigeria
LAMATA website: www.lamata-ng.com
Mobereola, D, 2009, Africa’s First Bus Rapid Transit Scheme, the Lagos BRT-Lite System, sub-Saharan Africa
       Transport Policy Program, Discussion Paper No. 9, Urban Transport Series,
       www.worldbank.org/afr/ssatp
World Bank, 2014, Nigeria Country Partnership Strategy FY14-17, Report 82501
World Bank, 2011, Implementation Completion and Results Report, Lagos Urban Transport Project, Report
       01848
World Bank, 2010, Restructuring Paper: Lagos Urban Transport Project, Report 54924
World Bank, 2010, Project Appraisal Document, Lagos Urban Transport 2, Report 49974
World Bank, 2009, Nigeria Country Partnership Strategy FY10-13, Report
World Bank, 2007, Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement for the Lagos Urban Transport
       Project between IDA and Lagos State, Credit 3720-1
World Bank, 2007, Additional Financing for Lagos Urban Transport Project, Project Paper, Report 38237
World Bank, 2007 and 2005, Restructuring Memos: Lagos Urban Transport Project World Bank, 2003, Project
       Agreement for the Lagos Urban Transport Project between IDA and Lagos State, Credit 3720
                                                 34

World Bank, 2002, Project Appraisal Document, Lagos Urban Transport Project, Report 25020
World Economic Forum, 2000, The Africa Competitiveness Report 2000/2001, Centre for International
       Development and World Economic Forum, New York, Oxford University Press.
                                               35


Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet
Nigeria: Lagos Urban Transport Project (IDA Credits 37200 and 37201)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                              Appraisal              Actual or         Actual as % of
                                              estimate            current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            135.00                  265.80                196
Loan amount (IDA)                               100.00                150.00                 150
Exchange gains                                      -                  15.40                  -
Borrower contribution                           35.00                 100.40                 286
Cancellation                                        -                    0.40                 -

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                       FY03     FY04         FY05         FY06       FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11
Appraisal               8.9     26.8         51.6          72.0       89.0     100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
estimate (US$M)
Actual (US$M)           0        7.2         22.8          52.4       85.1     100.4 124.7 161.1 165.0
Actual as % of          0       26.8         44.1          72.7       95.6     100.4 124.7 161.1 165.0
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: April 19, 2011

Project Dates
                                                         Original                       Actual
Initiating memorandum                                       -                         05/08/2002
Board approval                                              -                         11/21/2002
Effectiveness                                               -                         10/30/2003
Additional Financing                                        -                         04/10/2007
Closing date                                            06/30/2008                    12/31/2010
APPENDIX A                               36


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)




Task Team Members
                                                                      Responsibility/
           Names                           Title              Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
                             Sr. Financial Management
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola                                    AFTFM FMS
                             Specialist
Akintola Fatoyinbo           Sr. Communications Specialist     -             -
                             Lead Financial Management
Anthony Hegarty                                                -     FMS
                             Specialist
Bayo Awosemusi               Lead Procurement Specialist     AFTPC   Procurement
Benjamin Vannier             Project Assistant               AFTTR   Assistant
Clementine du Payrat         Project Assistant                 -     Assistant
Dan Aronson                  Lead Social Scientist             -     Safeguards
Dieter Schelling             Team Leader                       -     Team Leader
                             Sr. Financial Management
Edward Olowo-Okere                                             -     FMS
                             Specialist
George Banjo                 Sr. Transport Specialist        ECSS5 Technical
                                           37
                                                                          APPENDIX A

Hubert Nove-Josserand       Sr. Urban Transport Specialist   SACIN   TTL
Jocelyne do Sacramento      Language Program Assistant       AFTTR   Prog. Support
Karen Hudes                 Sr. Counsel                        -     Legal
Kristine Drike              Economist                          -     Economist
Scott Sinclair              Lead Financial Specialist        AFTEG   Disbursement
Subhash C. Seth             Consultant                       AFTTR   Engineering
Mark Walker                 Lead Counsel                     LEGES   Legal
Melanie Jaya                Program Assistant                AFCS1   Prog. Support
Nina Chee                   Environmental Specialist         MIGEP   Safeguards
Ntombie Siwale              Team Assistant                   AFTTR   Prog. Support
Supervision/ICR
Ajay Kumar                 Lead Transport Economist          AFTTR TTL
Amos Abu                   Sr. Environmental Specialist      AFTEN Safeguards
                                                                   Environmental
Sameer Akbar               Sr. Environmental Specialist       ENV
                                                                   management
Akinrinmola Oyenuga        Sr. Financial Management
                                                             AFTFM FMS
Akinyele                   Specialist
Bayo Awosemusi             Lead Procurement Specialist       AFTPC Procurement
George A. Banjo            Sr. Transport Specialist          ECSS5 Technical
                                                                   Environmental
Roger Gorham               Transport Economist               AFTTR
                                                                   management
Aisha D.A. Kaga            Program Assistant                 AFCW2 Assistant
Antoine V. Lema            Sr. Social Development Specialist AFTCS Safeguards
Regina Oritshetemeyin
                           Program Assistant                 ECSHD Assistant
Nesiama
Anne Njuguna              Program Assistant                  AFTTR   Assistant
Hubert Nove-Josserand     Operations Advisor                 SACIN   TTL
Comfort Onyeje Olatunji   Program Assistant                  SASDO   Assistant
Africa Eshogba Olojoba    Sr. Environmental Specialist       AFTEN   Safeguards
Olatunji Ahmed            Transport Specialist               AFTTR   Engineering
                          Sr. Financial Management
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola                                    AFTFM FMS
                          Specialist
Justin Runji              Sr. Transport Specialist           AFTTR Engineering
Subhash C. Seth           Consultant                         AFTTR Engineering
Thomas Kwasi Siaw Anang Procurement Specialist               AFTPC Procurement
Rajiv Sondhi              Sr. Finance Officer                CTRFC FMS
Samuel L. Zimmerman       Consultant                         MNSSD Technical
APPENDIX A                                              38


Detailed Project Cost and Financing

   a) Project Cost by Component

(US$ million) Figures in parentheses show IDA financing
                              Appraisal        Estimates at          Estimates at          Actual/           Percentage
 Component                    estimate         restructuring         Additional             latest           of estimates
                                                                     Financing            estimates             at AF
 Capacity building             27.6 (13.3)        20.8 (18.4)          20.8 (18.4)        44.2* (8.9)                48.4
 Road network                  98.5 (78.9)        94.5 (83.1)        133.3 (121.9)       158.8 (141.7)              116.2
 efficiency
 Bus service enhancement       0.7 (0.7)          1.9    (1.7)       11.2      (11.0)     50.7**(8.6)                78.2
 Water transport promotion     2.9 (2.4)          2.2    (1.9)        4.1       (3.8)     5.3 (2.4)                  63.2
 Preparation of follow-        5.3 (4.7)          6.4    (5.7)       6.4        (5.7)     6.8 (3.8)                  66.7
 up phases

 TOTAL                        135.0 (100.0)      125.8 (110.8)       175.8 (160.8)        265.8 (165.4)              102.9


   b) Financing

                                     Appraisal       Estimates at           Estimates      Actu         Percentage
 Source of Funds                     estimate        restructuring              at          al/              of
                                                                            Additional    latest         estimates
                                                                            Financing     estim            at AF
 Borrower – Counterpart Fund            35.0             15.0                15.0         65.2#
            Transport Fund                                                                35.2##
                 Sub-total              35.0            15.0                  15.0        100.4             669.3
 IDA                                   100.0            100.0                150.0        150.0             100.0
 Exchange gains                                         10.8                  10.8         15.4
 TOTAL                                 135.0            125.8                175.8        265.8             151.2


      *
        The substantial increase in financing by the Lagos State Government (LSG) for capacity building
      component is because: (i) the closing date was extended three times from June 30, 2008 to
      December 31, 2010. Therefore the cost incurred during these additional two-and-a-half years was
      not part of the original estimates; and (ii) over the years, LAMATA is not only responsible for
      LUTP implementation but a much broader scope of planning and regulation activities assigned by
      the LSG. These include BRT planning and regulation, design and planning of blue and red rail
      lines, among others. This increase in activities has resulted in an increase in operating cost and staff
      size.
      **
         This amount includes US$42 million contribution from LSG for BRT construction and service
      lane improvements.
      # This includes LSG financing for: (i) US$15 million for LAMATA capacity building; (ii) US$8.2
      million for routine maintenance; and (iii) US$42 million contribution for BRT construction and
      service lane improvements.
      ## Includes: (i) US$24.1 million from license fees (hackney permits, road taxes, license plate and
      auto registrations); and (ii) US$11.1 million from other user charges, including income from
      bidding documents, sale of maps from the geographic information systems, income from
      advertisement along BRT route, franchise fee from BRT operations and lease income from bus
      depots.
                                                 39
                                                                                       APPENDIX A


Other Project Data

Borrower/Executing Agency:
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                        Credit no.    Amount (US$ mil)       Board date
Lagos Urban Transport Project 2                  4767          190.00                 06/02/2010




                                               Original                              Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Target Values                             Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                           (from approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target
                                             documents)                              Target Years
                                                                 Values
Indicator 1 :     Time spent by poor households on travel along project corridor per trip (minutes)
Value
                                               Savings 20%     Savings 20%
quantitative or                30                                                          20
                                                   (24)            (24)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/20/2005                07/20/2005        04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
                  Money spent by poor households on bus travel per trip along project corridor
Indicator 2 :
                  (share of income)
Value
quantitative or            N108                   N 92             N 92                  N 96
Qualitative)               (20%                  (15%)            (15%)                 (12%)
(percent)                    )
Date achieved     07/20/2005                07/20/2005        04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
                  Achieved 100%. In real terms, considering the change in CPI, the target was fully
(incl. %
                  achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Length of daily bus-km franchised (km)
Value
quantitative or            10,000                15,000           15,000            45,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/20/2005                07/20/2005        04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Work days of labor created
Value
quantitative or           390,000                700,000          700,000          1,660,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/20/2005                07/20/2005        04/15/2007      12/31/2010
APPENDIX A                                     40

Comments
(incl. %         Achieved 100%.
achievement)
 (a) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                         Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                           Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                           Revised
                                            approval                           Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                           documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   LAMATA is fully functional
Value
(quantitative       Established by law           100%              100%             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/22/2002                   11/22/2002         08/02/2005     12/31/2010
Comments
                Achieved 100%. LAMATA fully functional in June 2006 with all internal
(incl. %
                procedural manuals established.
achievement)
                Total annual contribution from user charges into the Transport Fund at the end-
Indicator 2 :
                of-the-project (US$ million)
Value
(quantitative                0                  5 (EOP)              2                6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/22/2002                   11/22/2002         08/02/2005     12/31/2010
Comments
                Achieved 100%. The amount includes dedicated contribution from license fees
(incl. %
                and other user charges.
achievement)
                Minimum annual amount expected as counterpart funding from LSG
Indicator 3 :
                (US$ million)
Value
(quantitative                0                      7                2                8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/22/2002                   11/22/2002         08/02/2005     12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved 100%.
achievement)
                LAMATA's annual operating cost remains less than 6 percent of
Indicator 4 :
                overall expenditure
Value
(quantitative                0                    <6%              <6%              <6%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/22/2002                   11/22/2002         08/02/2005     12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Traffic Management Units set up and operational
Value
(quantitative                0                      4                4                2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/22/2002                   11/22/2002         08/02/2005     12/31/2010
                                                    41
                                                                                         APPENDIX A

Comments          Achieved 50%. During reprioritization of the available resources, the number of
(incl. %          TMUs to be established was reduced from four to two, with a focus on those
achievement)      areas in which BRT and BFS were situated.
                  Total time saved in motorized travels per day on selected legs of the declared
Indicator 6 :
                  road network (in minutes)
Value
(quantitative                  0                    10-12                10-12         7-12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                 04/15/2007          04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Pilot bus route passenger satisfaction (% satisfied)
Value
(quantitative                N/A                     70%                 70%           80%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                 04/15/2007          04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Decrease in average waiting time on pilot bus route (minutes)
Value
(quantitative                N/A                      10                  4              4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                 04/15/2007          04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Lagos state ferry services corporation privatized
Value
(quantitative                  0             To be completed     Completed       Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                 11/22/2002          04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%. Achieved in 2004.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Concession of ferry service operationalized
Value
(quantitative                  0             To be completed     Completed       Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                 11/22/2002          04/15/2007      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%. Achieved in 2005.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Jetties passenger per day (Ijegun Egba and Agboyi Ketu)
Value
(quantitative                  0                    6,100                7,200         7,200
or Qualitative)
APPENDIX A                                       42

Date achieved     11/22/2002                08/02/2005         04/15/2007       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    Transport Master Plan prepared in a participatory manner and disclosed
Value
                                                               To be
(quantitative     0                         To be disclosed                     Disclosed
                                                               disclosed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                04/15/2007         04/15/2007       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Transport Master Plan has been prepared and disclosed 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 13 :    Length of road rehabilitated (km)
Value
(quantitative                  0                      25             25                47.8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                04/15/2007         04/15/2007       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 14 :    Length of overlays placed (km)
Value
(quantitative                  0                      68             68                 76
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                04/15/2007         04/15/2007       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 15 :    Number of junctions improved
Value
(quantitative                  0                      70             70                 70
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                04/15/2007         04/15/2007       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 16 :    Number of jetties improved/constructed for small boats
Value
(quantitative                  0                      20             4                  4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/22/2002                  11/22/2002        04/15/2007     12/31/2010
Comments          Achieved 100%. During restructuring, project components were redesigned and
(incl. %          the number of jetties to be improved reduced from 20 to 4. The 4 jetties have
achievement)      been constructed and functional on the identified waterway routes.
                                               43


Appendix B. The BRT-Lite Project
Outputs

The World Bank gave expert advice and funded feasibility studies and detailed designs. It
provided assistance in identifying a future mass transit network and supported PPP
transaction advisory services and the structuring of operations and maintenance concessions.

Existing and prospective bus operators were closely involved in the definition of the BRT-
Lite services and enhancement activities of the project.

Improvements were made to the corridor (funded by Lagos State – US$ 36 million),
including the designation of dedicated lines for buses, road surface improvements on and
adjacent to the exclusive lines, bus terminals, bus stops, bus shelters, lay-bys, ticketing
activities and traffic system management measures.

The BRT-Lite service along Mile 2 to CMS corridor carries over 220,000 passengers per day.

Outcomes

The new BRT Vehicles carry a considerably greater number of passengers per vehicle in
greater comfort, and the vehicles meet Euro 1 standards meaning lower emission levels of
key pollutants. Furthermore, operating in segregated bus ways for much of the route, these
vehicles can bypass traffic so less time is spent inefficiently in stationary traffic. Since
inception BRT-Lite total ridership is 301 million passengers.

The operation was a cooperative partnership with the Road Transport Employers Association
of Nigeria representing the owners’ interests. This association represents the large bus sector,
whereas NURTW represents the franchised operations and small bus operators.

A driver-training program was instituted in the use of the infrastructure and customer care.28

The IEG mission visited the Mile 2 interchange and inspected the facilities at Ojota depot,
which were clean, functional, and effective. It was observed that passenger behavior had
gradually changed through education and that orderly queues were now the norm. The
mission also rode on the new buses and inspected the secure bus workshops, fuel depot, and
cleaning bays. A fingerprint recognition system is used to gain access. The facility has been
built in expectation of a rapid increase in the number of BRT lines.




28
  Support was also provided by a state initiative known as “Kick against Indiscipline” to help with
the management of the stations and terminals. This included control of traders and hawkers on the
walkways and the introduction of orderly queuing at the bus stops.
APPENDIX B                                   44


User surveys reveal an improvement in bus passenger satisfaction along the corridors from
40 percent to 80 percent over the project period.29 The surveys indicate that not only have the
project-supported improvements made bus travel more affordable, but they have also made it
more accessible to women and children. The focus groups involving users highlighted
several key factors to measure satisfaction and results for their preference for the BRT-Lite.
These were quicker journey times (35 percent), comfort (20 percent), fare differential (18
percent), safety/security (12 percent), reliability (five percent), and other reasons (ten
percent).30

The enhanced bus services along the rapid transit corridors have empowered local operators
to provide public transport services without subsidy, and have motivated local banks,
financiers and vehicle suppliers to provide funding for additional planned BRT routes.
Ridership has been so high that there is no longer any question about the viability of the
scheme and this enables the regulator, LAMATA, to ensure that fares are lower than before
the improvements.

Public transport in Lagos is now almost entirely owned and managed by the private sector,
but regulated by LAMATA. The state government requested the World Bank’s support for
the extension of the BRT corridors (now under implementation in the second Lagos Urban
Transport Project – LUPT2). There is no need for a government subsidy for operating the
BRT scheme. This is feasible because of the high revenue generated by the services.

Processes for securely printing tickets and managing their distribution have been developed
with the objective of minimizing fare evasion. BRT tickets are sold to passengers prior to
boarding and verified at the entry to bus station and buses.

LAMATA charges the successfully selected operators a franchise fee in order to recoup its
direct costs in administering the scheme and managing the enabling framework. The vehicle
maintenance function is outsourced to the vehicle supplier, who provides full technical
support including trained personnel and spare parts. Maintenance and administrative costs are
recovered through a lease fee. Both drivers and small-fleet operators apply to join the route
association, but their acceptance is subject to peer review in the light of the individual and
collective liabilities. In any case, the actual drivers concerned receive training from the
vehicle supplier and must be certified. Refresher training and repeated tests are mandatory.




29
   Surveys and focus group discussions were carried out by a number of small firms and NGOs during
the course of implementation. These included the New Nigeria Foundation, the Nigerian Institute of
Transport Technology, Multiple Development Services Ltd., and Geo-Trans Associates Ltd.
30
   When BRT-Lite was 100 days old a “BRT town hall” was held in order to assess and debate
performance and any issues that were raised by the public. The meeting comprised of senior
LAMATA officers, the lending bank, State Government representatives, as well as users’
representatives (including the physically challenged and commuters). A senior academic from the
University of Lagos independently moderated the meeting. It was attended by approximately 1,500
people and televised. After six months there was a full evaluation of operational performance.
                                                              45
                                                                     APPENDIX B

Figure 2. The 22 km. BRT-Lite Route from Mile 12 to Lagos Island




Source: Sub Saharan Africa Transport Program Discussion Paper No 9
                                       46


Appendix C. List of Persons Met
World Bank Washington DC

Roger Gorham                      Task Team Leader LUTP2

World Bank Nigeria Country Office, Abuja

Ahmed Olatunji                    Senior Transport Specialist
Akinyele Akinrinmola              Senior Financial Management Specialist
Mary Asanato-Adiwu                Senior Procurement Specialist
Ugonne Eze                        Team Assistant

Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority

Lyiola Adegboye                   Acting MD and Director of Finance
Dairo Olugbenga                   Director Public Transport
Olufunsho Elulade                 Director Roads and Traffic Management
Tayo Orekoya                      Director Corporate and Investment Planning
Olurinu Jose                      Director Business Systems
Abiodun Dabiri                    Deputy Director Procurement
Prof. Olukayode                   Deputy Director Safeguards
Obafemi Shita-bey                 Head Transport Research and Development
Dr. Frederic Oladehinde           Technical Adviser/Head of Transport Planning

Lagos State Waterways Authority

Abisola Kamson                    Managing Director
Tayo Gbajuma                      Head of Operations

Lagos State Traffic Management Authority

B.A. Braimah                      General Manager
Chris Olakpe                      Chief Executive Officer

Primero Transport Services Ltd.

Lekan Ladipo                      Managing Director/CEO
                             47


Appendix D. Borrower Comments
No comments were received.
