Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9556-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MAY 29, 1991
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Afri.ca Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (May 1, 1991)
US$1             Cedi (¢) 365
¢100      =      US$ 0.27
ACRONYMS
BECE        Basic Education Certificate Examination
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
CRDD        Curriculum Research and Development Division (of MOE)
EdSAC I     Education Sector Adjustment Credit I  (Cr. 1744-GH)
EdSAC II    Education Sector Adjustment Credit II (Cr. 2140-GH)
ERP         Economic Recovery Program
GES         Ghana Education Service
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
JSS         Junior Secondary School
LCB         Local Gonipetitive Bidding
NORAD       Norwegian Development Agency
MOL         Ministry of Education
ODA         Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAMSCAD     Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
PIP         Public Investment Program
PMU         Project Management Unit
PNDC        Provisional National Defense Council
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SSS         Senior Secondary School
TTC         Teacher Training College
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WFP         World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR                     SCHOOL YEAR
January - December              September - June   (Basic and Tertiary)
January - December (Senior Secondary)
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION IN GHANA
Prior to the Reform (6:4:5:2:3)             Under the Reform (6:3:3:4)
Years  1 -  6   Primary                     Years  1 -  6   Primary
7 - 10   Middle/Continuation                7 -  9   Junior Secondary
11 - 15   Secordary - 0 Level               10 - 12   Senior Secondary
16 - 17   Secondary - A Level               13 - 16   University
18 - 20   University



FOR OFmFCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................          ......    i
I.    INTRODUCTION       ..................    1
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR..................                *..*......    2
A.    Background       ......             .         .....         2
B. Major Issues                     .....2
C.    Donor Support for Government's Education
Reform Program...                          ... ......       4
III.  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REFORM PROGRAM TO DATE
(1987 TO APRIL 199i)           .................. .................    5
A.    Access        ...................................           5
B.    Changing the Structure of the School System ........ .    6
C.    Improving Pedagogic Effectiveness ............   .....      7
D.    Curriculum Reform towards Greater Relevance .........       8
E.    Containment and Sharing of Recurr'nt Costs . .........    9
F.    Enhancing Sector Management .........................   10
G.    Projected Educational Expenditure for the
Second Phase of the Reform .......................         11
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .12
A.    Background    ...............         ..............   12
B.    Community Initiative Approach .......................   15
C.    Project Objectives .............................   16
D.    Project Description .............................   16
E.    Project Costs and Financing .........................   20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in Ghana in April
1991, comprising Mr. Nicholas Bennett (Senior Planner and mission leader), and
Ms. Johanne Angers (Project Assistant). Mr. Peter Moock (Division Chief, AFTED)
reviewed the project design and was the lead advisor for the operation. Mrs.
Janet de Merode and Mr. Edwin R. Lim are the managing Division Chief and the
Department Director, respectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pane No.
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...... ..........    23
A.    Process of Project Preparation ......................   23
B.    Project Management ..... ... .. ...... ..... .. ................    23
C.    Procurement ....................*.                        24
D.    Disbursements ....... *............5.....   ............*..   25
E.    Environmental Aspects ................... .               27
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .......      .    . ...  ...... .     27
A.   Benefits .....................................    27
B.    Risks ..........e.. ...........................           28
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMHENDATIONS...........................    28
ANNEXES
3-1   Basic Educational Statistics and Indicators
3-2   Enrollment Pyramid by Sex and Levels/Grades of Education in Ghana
(1989/90)
3-3   Basic Statistics on Senior Secondary Schools
3-4   Senior Secondary School Reform - Proposed Cu-riculum
3-5   Unit Costs by Program
3-6   Proposed Nambers  of Schools Offering Different  Programs/Options  in
1990/1991
3-7   HOE 1991 Recurrent Budget Summary
4-1   Streams in Existing and New Schools by Region Option
4-2   Distribution of New Schools by Size and Program
4-3   Indicators of Regional Inequities
4-4   Floor Plan for Proposed Multi-Purpose Structure
4-5   Notes on Design for Proposed Multi-Purpose Structure
4-6   Guidelines for Construction by Communities
4-7   Teaching Space Requirements by Size of School
4-8   Teaching Spaces and Other Facilities Required in New Schools
4-9   Proposed Design for Staff House
4-10  Proposed Design for Generator Shelter
4-11  Technical Specification for the Supply of Motor Vehicle
4-12  Key Documents in Project File
5-1   Structure of Project Management Unit
5-2   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAPt IBRD 23054
ascontents (ja20)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Ghana
Executing Agency:        Ministry of Education
Credit Amountt           SDR 11.1 million (US$14.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:             The project will support about 140 local communities in their
efforts in constructing new senior secondary schools in
educationally  underserved  rural  areas.    The  community
initiative approach to construction, tested under the Program
of' Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
(PAMSCAD), whereby Government provides matching funds to the
communities' own contribution in cash or labor, will be used.
Classrooms, laboratories, libraries, staff facilities and
houses will be constructed in time for January 1992 and
January 1993 intakes, creating a total of more than 18,000 new
student places. In addition, library books will be provided
in sufficient quantities for the school library to serve the
local community as well as students and staff. Finally, as a
reward to those schools that with their own resources
construct or provide hygienic toilets, a simple truck will be
given.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:               The benefits would include a substantial improvement in access
to senior secondary schools by youths from the northern half
of the country and other rural areas underserved by secondary
schools; an expansion of the PAMSCAD community initiative
approach; and the creation of a greater sense of community
ownership of the schools. The major risks involve funds being
made available only after the constructior. season is over; a
diversion of funds to other purposes; the inability of the
community to raise sufficient resources to finish a building
once started; and that communities construct sub-standard
buildings to reduce their level of contribution. The first
risk is being addressed by Government advance planning, and
the proposed Bank special processing procedures; the second by
a standard building construction agreement between Government
and district authorities that is to be signed; the third by
insisting that all covnunities complete the foundations before
any Government grant is provided, and by ensuring that no
community is allowed to start the construction of too many
buildings at the same time; and the final one by using the
standard building construction agreement mentioned above, and
by frequent technical supervision.



- At -
Estimated Prolect Costs               Local        Foreign      Total
°--- (US$ thousands) ----
Building Construction                 10,349         4,436      14,785
Teaching Materials                       -             920         920
Vehicles                                             1,144       1,144
Specialist Services                       36           180         236
Total Base Cost                       10,385         6.680      17,065
Physical Contingencies                 1,038           668       1,706
Price Contingencies                      520           334         853
Total Project Costs                   11,943         7,682      19,624
mm                       _ 
Financing Plan
Community/District Assembly
Contributien                         3,449         1,479       4,928
IDA                                    8,494         6,203      14,696
Total                                 11,943         7,682      19,624
Estimated IDA Disbursements                  IDA Fiscal Years
92         93
(USS million)
Annual                                       10.0         4.7
Cumulative                                   10.0       14.7
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
a:summary (ja20)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Since early 1983 Ghana has been engaged in a far-reaching and
courageous program of economic recovery and structural adjustment under the
leadership of the Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC). As part of
this program, the Government has reversed the pltfious precipitous fall in
expenditures on social services, including education. It is now placing even
more stress on social sector development, to help mitigate the social costs of
adjustment, provide basic education (and health) services to the population
and to promote the development of Ghana's human capital for the long term.
Against this background, there has been widespread concern for some time at
the poor access of many children from rural areas, especially in the Northern
half of Ghana, to Senior Secondary schooling. The vast majority of existing
senior secondary schools are either boarding schools with fees that many rural
families cannot afford, or are situated in the major towns, out of reach of
most rural children.
1.02        The Government has therefore requested Bank assistance to support
about 140 rural communities in their efforts to establish effective and viable
Senior Secondary schools, all with a practical agricultural, technical or
vocational bias. The project can be seen as a parallel investment to the
second phase of the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH) which was
approved by the Executive Directors of the Bank on May 24, 1990. The project
described in this report is entirely consistent with, and supportive of the
education reform program supported with Credits 1744-GH and 2140-GH. This
report recommends IDA financing of SDR 11.1 million (US$14.7 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. Almost US$12.5
million would be used as matching grants to about 140 rural communities to
help them in their efforts in establishing approved schools, US$0.9 million
for library books for these schiools, US$1.1 million for essential simple
vehicles, and US$0.2 for specialist services. Textbooks, equipment and
generators for tuese schools have been procured under Cr. 2140-GH.
1.03        Since its inception, the PNDC Government has been concerned with
the need to promote a more egalitarian spatial development of the country.
Until recently a large proportion of development has been concentrated in the
so-called "Golden Triangleo - the area in the Tema/Kumasi/Takoradi axis, even
though much of Ghana's export potential and population lies outside this
triangle. The newly established district assemblies, the Program of Actions
to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD), and the Public
Investment Program (PIP) have all played a role in recent years in reversing
this earlier spatial concentration.
1.04        Under PAMSCAD Government developed an effective mechanism for
supporting local communities in their development efforts. This involved
providing them with matching funds on the basis of fixed price estimates for



half a dozen preselected activities. These matching funds were released to
the communities through the district assemblies in installments on a 'payment
by result basis". This community initiative approach proved to be popular and
effective. The system proposed under this project for the construction of
secondary school is consistent with this i'ell tested approach to providing
facilities.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.    Background
2.01        Until the mid-1970s Ghana had one of the most highly developed and
effective educational systems in West Africa. The economic decline of the
1970s, however, was accompanied by a precipitous deterioration in the quality
of the system. Enrollment rates, once among the highest in the Sub-Saharan
region, stagnated or fell. In addition, the quality of education declined,
which contributed to the enrollment stagnation. The percentage of GDP
allocated to education sropped from 6.4 percent in 1976 to 1.5 percent in
1984; real levels of financing fell by about two-thirds. Government resources
were no longer available to construct, complete, or maintain educational
facilities. At the same time, foreign exchange dried up, preventing the
purchase of textbooks and other essential instructional materials. The
economic degeneration also led to a mass exodus of trained teachers,
especially university faculty and the more highly-trained and qualified of
school teachers. At the basic education level. the ratio of trained t.o
untrained personnel fell significantly. The sector was further weakened by
sporadic planning based on inadequate information, by low motivation and
morale, and by widespread misappropriation of funds.
B.    Malor Issues
2.02        Length of pre-university education and related structural
problems. Prior to 1987, education in Ghana consisted of four levels:
primary (grades 1 - 6), middle (grades 7 - 10), secondary (grades 11 - 17),
(the first five years leading to '0O level certification and the last two to
"Al level) and tertiary (three years for the first degree). Many of those who
entered secondary school, including the majority of poorer students, did so
after completing middle school (grade 10). Only those able to afford private
tuition or attend better primary schools in the towns managed to enter
secondary school directly from primary school (grade 6). The result was a
system that offered students 17 years of pre-university education, compared
with the international norm of 12 years. The length of this cycle added
significantly to the Government's recurrent education budget. Moreover, the
inordinate length of the cycle could not even be justified in terms of greater
learning by the end of the cycle, because (among other reasons) the length in
years was offset by school calendar factors -- a very short school year (33
weeks officially, as compared with 36 - 42 weeks during the mid-1980s owing to
inadequate funds to keep cafeterias operating in boarding schools), as well as
a short school day (5 hours and 50 minutes as compared with the more common
schedule of 6 - 7 hours daily).



2.03        Limited access.  From the mid 1970's enrollments in primary
schools grow at a considerably slower rate than that of the school age
population, and thus enrollment ratios actually fell. Those parents who could
afford to send their children to private preparatory schools withdrew their
children from the public system. By the mid 1980's, though enrollments in
private preparatory schools were only about 6S of those in the public system,
students from these schools occupied more than half the places in highly
subsidized Government secondary schools. The majority of secondary school
students thus come from relatively well to do families from urban areas in
Southern Ghana.
2.04        Curricula and teaching constraints.  The nature of the academic
curriculum, emphasizing rote recall rather than mastery of practical skills,
had changed very little since independence. Moreover, by the early 19809,
most schools had cnly minimal access to textbooks and other instructional
materials. As the educational budget was cut, the proportion allocated to
everythir.g other than personal emoluments continued to fall, until by the mid-
19809 emoluments comprised 95 percent of Ghana Education Service (GES)
expenditures. These problems pervaded all levels of the system. Effective
instruction was hampered at the basic level by the large number of untrainel
teachers, and by poorly-maintained school buildings that did not provide an
environment conducive to learning. In addition, pupil evaluation was carried
out largely on the basis of written end-of-course tests, rather than on a
system of continuous assessment.
2.05        Government's recurrent cost burden.  Despite reductions in unit
costs and increased financial participation of parents during the early 19809,
it remained difficult for Governr.ent to provide the necessary funding for the
expanding system of education. Critical areas of concern, in terms of their
large and rapidly expanding impact on the budget, included the feeding and
lodging costs of secondary and tertiary students, textbook provision, the
rehabilitation of decaying facilities, and overstaffing, especially of non-
teaching staff and untrained teachers.
2.06        Lack of effective planning and management.  During the pre-reform
period, the precision of education services was further hampered by weak and
ineffective planning capacity within the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOEC). Norms were either not in place or not enforced for such coefficients
as classroom square footage, teacher-student ratios, and per student
expenditure. As a result, vast disparities existed among Government-supported
schools. Additional planning problems incl3ided fragmentation in the
responsibility for planning, separation of the planning and budgeting
functions, and inadequate planning guidelines. Management was hindered by
budget uncertainties, while decisions were made in response to crisis rather
than as part of a systematic process. Further, school-level monitoring Wt'
limited owing to unfilled regional and district inspectorate positions.
Serving inspectors lacked the necessary travel funds to enable them to visit
schools regularly.
2.07        Inadequate skills training for school leavers.  There was also
growing concern that the highly academic nature of the education system only



-4
prepared school leavers to take on wage employment (especially in the modern
sector) rather than to become productively employed on their own. The problem
was exacerbated by the fact that the rate of growth of formal sector jobs,
including those in the public service, was slowing dramatically, while the
number of school leavers kept rising. This combination of factors led to
unemployment and encouraged brain draJn.
C.    Donor Support for Government's Education Reform Progra
2.08        Government was aware of the above problems, and was also convinced
of the need to ensure a wider and more equitable access to education and other
social services. However, resource scarcities prevented them both from
implementing the necessary education reform program, and from extending access
to under-represented groups. In September 1986, a special donors meeting for
the social sectors was held in Vienna, Austria and almost US$50 million was
raised with the lion's share of US$34.5 million coming from the Bank and the
remainder from NORAD, OPEC Fund, Switzerland, British ODA, and UNDP. This
foreign assistance allowed Government to announce its reform program in
October 1986, and to start full scale implementation a year later. Further
assistance from WFP, CIDA and British ODA became available luring
implementation.
2.09        The overall objectives of Government's reform program were:
(a)   to expand and make access more equitable at all levels of
education;
(b)   to change the structure of the school system, reducing the length
of pre-university education from 17 to 12 years;
(c)   to improve pedagogic efficiency and effectiveness;
(d)   to make education more relevant by increasing the attention paid
to problem solving, environmental concerns, prevocational
training, manual dexterity, and general skills training;
(e)   to contain and partially recover costs; and
(f)   to enhance sector management and budgeting procedures.
2.10        The reform program was divided into three broad phases:  the first
emphasizing the introduction ^ the new Junior Secondary School (JSS) system
(grades 7-9) and running from 1987 to 1990; the second emphasizing the
introduction of the new Senior Secondary School (SSS) system (grades 10-12)
and running from 1991 through to 1993; whilst the third phase will concentrate
on the tertiary level and will run from 1994 to 1997.
2.11        The Bank's assistance to the first phase of the reform program was
in the form of a sector adjustment credit (EdSAC I, Cr. 1744-CH) one of the



first ever in the education sector. Implementation was basically on schodule
throughout the first phase, as both the second and third tranches were
released with only a few months delay.
2.12        Based on the succeus of EdSAC I, the Bank agreed to &asist with
the financing of the second phase of the reform program with a further Sector
Adjustment Credit (EdSAC II, Cr. 2140-GH) for the equivalent of US$50 million.
In addition, parallel financing of US$35 million, largely of program
assistance, was obtained from USAID to support further improvements in the
access to and effectiveness of primary education. Both the Bank credit and
the USAID grant became effective during FY91, and already US$13.8 million of
EdSAC II has been disbursed or irrevocably committed.
2.13        Though EdSAC II has been under implementation for less than a year
and the first tranche review is currently not scheduled to take place until
September 1991, all available data suggests that the program is on track, and
most of the special conditions have already been met. For example, the SSS
student-teacher ratio is about 22:1 compared with a minimum of 20:1; GES total
staffing is currently under 150,000 compared with the upper limit of 153,000;
book user fees have been raised to the required levels; and basic education's
share of the education budget is being maintained while the overall budget for
education grows.
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REFORM PROGRAM TO DATE
(1987 TO APRIL 199il)
A.    Access
3.01        There has been a recent marked increase in basic education
enrollments. After several years of decline, gross primary enrollment ratios
increased from 65 percent in 1987/88 to 68? in 1988189, and 722 in 1989/90.
At the primary level, first grade enrollments grew by 11.8? between the
1987/88 and the 1988/89 years, whilst enrollments in primary grades increased
by 8.32 in the same year. At the JSS 1 level 1987/88 enrollments were 21.72
higher than comparable Middle School 1 ,nrollments, with by 'qr the largest
increases (83.9Z) in the three educationally disadvantaged northern regions.
In 1988/89 JSS 1 enrollments increased by a further 1.6?. By that year there
was a gross enrollment ratio in the 12-14 age group of 59.6?. Government's
objective is to have a universal intake into primary school by the end of the
decade, and henceforth all children will complete the 9-year basic education
cycle. In most of the southern regions already over a 70? enrollment ratio of
the 6-14 year old population has been achieved, but in the three northern
regions the equivalent enrollment ratios are 40? or less. these low
enrollment ratios mean that there are insufficient JSS 3 students to allow any
equality in the SSS enrollment rates between the north and the south of the
country. Under the old senior secondary school system, about 20? of the
primary grade 6 enrollment cohort was eventually admitted to the first grade
of the system, and in 1989/90 there was a gross enrollment rate of 10.8? of
tt ! 15-19 age cohort in the old senior secondary school system. Under the new
senior secondary school system in 1991, 35? of the 1990 JSS 3 enrollment
cohort was admitted, a level that is likely to be maintained over the next few



years. There has been a continuous but modest increase in the proportion of
girls enrolled at all levels. in 1989/90 girls represented 44.91 of primary,
41.32 of Junior Secondary and 33.OZ of Senior Secondary enrollments. Various
indicators of recent growth in the school system are shown in Annex 3-1, and
the 1989/90 enrollment pyramid is included at Annex 3-2.
3.02        In 1990 the first examination (partly on the basis of continuous
assessment) at the end of JSS 3 was held. Of the 142,000 eligible JSS 3
students 132,000 took the examination, the Basic Education Certificate
Examination (BECE). Approximately 80,000 or 601 achieved a sufficient score
to enter SSS 1. However, an intake of 53,000 students into SSS 1 was planned,
and though all figures are not yet available, it seemo that this planned
intake will be able to be maintained despite pressures to increase it.
Government over the longer run is coamitted to limiting intakes in senior
secondary schools to not more than 50S of JSS 3 enrollments, and limitation of
space will prevent intakes from increasing much over the next two years. It
is thus anticipated that the BECE secondary school qualifying pass rate will
be raised in 1991 and 1992.
3.03        The school year at the SSS level was changed in January 1991 from
the old pattern of September to August, to January to December. Thus first
intakes into SSS 1 only took place at the cud of Janusry 1991, and further
intakes are still taking place as students are rejected by their first or
second choices.
3.04        The selection process for intakes into the new SSS system has been
designed to ensure that much greater attention is paid to equity than before.
First, every secondary school, however much it might cater for the children of
the elite, must now take 302 of its intake from surrounding *village* JSS in a
defined catchment area. Secondly, selection takes place on a regional basis,
and lower aggregate scores are required for students from the more
disadvantaged regions.
3.05        In 1989/90 there was an 11.62 increase in intakes into the first
class of the old SSS. In 1991 SSS intake rose hy at least a further 401. In
1988/89, 32.72 of $SS students were female whilst in 1989/90 this had
increased to 33.01 (Annex 3-3). At the tertiary level, 1990 saw intakes
increase by more than 10.81 for the first time in more than a decade of
enrollment stagnation. This increase was only made possible by the opening up
of the university to significant numbers of nan-resident students.
3.06        Perhaps the most dramatic increase in access and coverage has been
with the functional literacy program. From fever than 40,000 participants in
1990, learners increased to 272,000 in 1991. Of these 56t are women and 282
come from the three most disadvantaged regions.
B.    Chanaing the Structure of the School System
3.07        The reform involves the changing of the structure of the school
system from 6s5t2:3 to 63:3:4.  This change in structure is being implemented
from 1987 to 1997.  Over the first slz years of the reform period (1987 -



- 7 -
1993), pre-university education is being reduced from 17 to 12 y*ars.
Implementation of this massive structural reform has been facilitated through
a nationwide public relatlons campaign including numerous public meetings and
extensive media coverage. Nine years of *basic education," consistLng of six
years of primary plus three years of Junior Secondary School (JSS) became
mandatory for all Ghanaians. The first JSS cohort graduated in 1990, and
those successful in the Basic Certificate of General Zducation examination
proceeded to the first class of the new 8SS in January 1991. ThLs first
intake into SSS took place in 254 existing secondary schools and about 140
newly established (or upgraded) schools. Successful students will graduate
from SSS 3 in 1993, and after completing their National Service, will enter
the newly structured tertiary system towards the end of 1994.
C.    Improving Pedagogic Effectiveness
3.08        Resource allocation.  The reform program, bolstered by EdSAC and
the annual Public Expenditure Reviews, has worked to improve the educational
process by addressing the budgetary issues In education. In line with credlt
conditionality, allocations to non-salary items (lines 2-5) have grown as a
percentage of the recurrent education budget, from less than 12 percent in
1986, to 18 percent in 1988, and 22 percent in 1989. Basic education's share
of the budget has increased from 44 percent in 1984 to over 60 percent in
every year since 1987. In addition, the sector's share of the total recurrent
budget (excluding interest payments and transfers) rose from an average of 27
percent in 1984, to 33 percent in 1987, and to 37 percent in 1990.
3.09        Instructional materials.  Starting in 1987, textbooks and
instructional materials were reintroduced into the system, which for many
years had been starved of even the most basic classroom resources. New texts
and teachers' guides were produced for the first nine grades of basic
education, and a range of tools and science equipment was procured and
delivered to the schools. Cost savings were realized in the production of
textbooks by relying on less costly design, paper and binding specifications.
W'Ith regard to educational content, MOE revised the primary school curriculum
and developed a new curriculum at the JSS level.
3.10        In addition, pupils were provided at cost a set of essential
exercise books, pencils and ball point pens. Highly competitive international
bidding was used in the procurement of these items, which resulted in the cost
to students being less than 502 of previously prevailing market prices. Basic
classroom supplies such as chalk, registers and notebooks were also provided
for the first time in more than a decade.
3.11        Teacher training.  In response to the shortage of qualified basic
education teachers, MOE has reformed and strengthened the teacher training
program. From 1988, intake into the four-year post-middle school course was
stopped and all new intake into the teacher training colleges (TTCs) is now
into a three-year course reserved for '0' level holders. The curriculum
offered in the training colleges was revised to reflect changes in the content
and methods of basic education teaching. In addition, in-service training has
been intensified and, so far, more than 50,000 JSS teachers and heads, primary



- 8 -
school heads and teachers, circuit officers, and tutors from teacher trainin8
colleges have attended short courses. The courses, lasting from one to three
weeks, have been held in 50 second-cycle institutions (teacher training
colleges and secondary boarding schools), which are now being used as in-
service training centers for about two months annually. At the JSS level, the
initial courses provided an introduction to the new JSS curriculum and to the
use of continuous assessment (newly-initiated to supplement the traditional
end-of-course written examinations); these are now being followed up with
courses of specialized training for JSS teachers of science and technical
subjects.
3.12        Literacy.  These efforts notwithstanding, Government remains
concerned about the quality of primary education. In August 1988 a
Government/Bank sub-sector study, "Basic Education for Self-Employment and
Rural Development," found that in many of the rural areas, especially in the
north, the majority of children leaving school after six years cannot read,
and in many schools throughout the country reading abilities are well below
grade level. The study also found that, according to many JSS teachers, the
level of basic language and mathematics proficiency among entering JSS
students is so low as to jeopardize the ability of these children to benefit
from the new JSS program. These conclusions are supported by the preliminary
results of a special study related to the Ghana Living Standards Survey
(GLSS). The study included a test of basic literacy and numeracy skills among
Ghanaians between nine and fifty-five years of age who have had at least three
years of formal education. The results indicate that the level of mastery of
basic skills is considerably lower in the population group between the ages of
nine and twenty-five than in the group twenty-six and older. In order to
remedy the low levels of literacy of the cohorts passing through primary
schools from the mid 1970's to the late 1980's, and also to tackle the adult
illiteracy rates which were shown to be as high as 67.SZ in 1987, Government
launched a mass literacy campaign in January 1991.
D.    Curriculum Reform Towards Greater Relevance
3.13        One of Government's main reform objectives is to make the
curriculum more relevant to Ghanaian concerns and less academic, so that the
education gained cannot be used simply as a conduit out of the rural areas and
eventually out of the country. Thus Ghanaian languages and practical
agriculture have been introduced as compulsory subjects at all levels of
formal schooling, and an environmental approach to the teaching of science is
being implemented. In addition, in writing the new JSS curriculum, Government
has reduced the emphasis on theory and has inserted new learning activities
more relevant to the local environment. Each school has to offer one
"prevocationall subject, designed to give students familiarity with, and
practice in using simple hand tools.
3.14        At the SSS level, the new curriculum has been designed to serve
two purposess (i) to prepare students for a wide range of occupations, and
(ii) to provide a solid educational foundation for post-secondary education
and training. To these ends, Government has elaborated a structure and broad
strategies to strengthen and expand the curriculum. The new structure entails



a common core intended to meet the minimum educational needs of all students
and consisting of seven subjects -- English, Ghanaian language, science,
mathematics, agricultural and environmental science, life skills, and physical
education. In addition, five broad "programs" of specialization are being
offered that are meant to cater for students' differing talents and various
interests -- agriculture, technical, vocational, business, and general arts
and science. Most schools are offering two to three of the five programs,
although some larger schools are offering four or even all five. Within each
program, a school may offer one or more "options' each composed of three
subjects. Each student will choose only one option. Annex 3-4 describes the
composition of options under each of the specialized programs, whilst Annex 3-
5 shows the comparative costs of each of these options.
3.15        The syllabus for the new curriculum was prepared by MOE's
Curriculum Research and Development Division (CRDD) with help from appropriate
outside organizations and individuals. On the basis of international
tendering, contracts for the development, publishing and manufacturing of 44
titles on behalf of MOE were awarded to six international publishing
companies. The performance of Senior Secondary students will be assessed
continuously, as is already the case with basic education pupils. Final
certification will depend on a combination of this process with the results of
an external examination set at the end of the SSS course.
3.16        Forty-three percent of SSS are offering agriculture options, 30?
technical options, 66Z general arts and science options, 9t commerce options.
All schools will be offering at least one vocational option. Details by
Region are shown in Annex 3-6. The equipment required for teaching each of
these options was identified by consultants, and reduced significantly through
the Bank/MOE discussions. On the basis of ICB equipment to be used for SSS 1
has been procured, and is being delivered and installed over the next three
months.
E.    Containment and Sharing of Recurrent Costs
3.17        Containing unit costs.  As part of the reform program, Government
contained unit educational costs through a variety of measures. First, the
proportion of boarding to day students in Government secondary schools has
been and will continue to be reduced by the improvement of facilities at day
schools, a ban on the establishment of new boarding schools, and a requirement
that at least 30Z of all new intake in existing schools be day students. In
order to moderate the increase in feeding costs at the Senior Secondary level,
a project to create a bulk purchasing system is being implemented as part of
PAMSCAD with WFP support.
3.18        A number of non-teaching staff have been retrenched, about 8,500
in second-cycle institutions and 1500 in the three universities. A ban was
imposed on the further recruitment of non-teaching staff, which has however
proved difficult to maintain. In addition, more than 4,500 unqualified and
untrained pupil teachers working in primary and middle schools have not had
their contracts renewed. Further, Government mandated a freeze in 1987 on the
total number of teaching posts, this to remain in effect until at least 1992.



- 10 -
In response to the long-term problem, however, Government is taking steps to
achieve zero growth in the total number of GUS staff. This will entail
development of a system that ensures Zone in, one out (for every person
recruited into GES, another person must have left -- through retirement,
through resignation or death, or through retrenchment). Such a system will
require pairing the names of those entering and those leaving the Service, at
the regional or district level, as well as in the aggregate.
3.19        The public recurrent cost burden has been constrained as well
through various fee increases. Subsidies covering the costs of food have been
eliminated at the secondary and tertiary levels. Exercise boo'xs are now being
sold rather than given away free, and textbook user fees were introduced or
increased for students in all grades above grade 2. with the proceeds flowing
Into a revolving fund which now has balances in excess of US$ 2 million.
Government increased the book user fees at the primary and JSS levels by 662
at the beginning of the 1990/91 academic year, and has agreed to impose fees
at the Senior Secondary level to reach levels sufficient for full cost
recovery. Book user fees at the primary level are 0250 per annum, and at the
S8S will be 03,000 per annum as soon as all the new text books have been
delivered. At the tertiary level, in December 1988 the PNDC Secretary for
Education announced a loan scheme to help tertiary-level students pay for
food, books and transportation. Roughly 0400 million were borrowed in the
first year of the program (over 8,000 students borrowing up to 050,000 each).
As loans are made through the Government social security scheme, repayment is
assured.
3.20        Private education.  The reform program does not actively promote
private education at the primary level for the urban elite (about 5? of
primary enrollments are in private schools) and inferior-quality private
education at the post-primary level for those children, often from poor
families, unable to gain entrance into the higher-quality and highly-
subsidized government secondary schools. Nevertheless, with the exception of
Government regulations enforcing standards and setting maximum fee levels, no
restrictions are imposed on the private providers of education.
F.    Enhancing Sector Management
3.21        Important steps were taken to improve planning and management
within the sector. First, Government has entered into an agreement (financed
jointly by UNDP and EdSAC) with UNESCO and the firm of Cambridge Education
Consultants (UK) for technical assistance and training in the areas of
planning, programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation. Second, the
planning and budgeting functions are gradually being merged into one division
under the MOE Secretary (previously they had been separate parts of the Ghana
Education Service, the main implementing arm of the MOE), and staff are now
being recruited and trained to handle the expanded and integrated functions.
Third, there has been a major restructuring of Ghana Education Service (GES)
and the MOE. One division, the Curriculum Research and Development Division
has been transferred from GES to MOE, and five of the remaining eleven
divisions in GES abolished. In addition, each of MOE's three major
departments (school education, higher education and non-formal education) has



- 11 -
had a very considerable build up in its professional staff.
G.    Projected Educational Expenditure for the Second Phase of the Reform
3.22        As a part of the program preparation activities for EdSAC II (Cr.
2140-GH) detailed projections of the costs of education were made. It was
concluded that over the 1990/91 to 1992/93 academic years, the nominal
recurrent budget for education would need to increase by 6 Fercent per
academic year (measured in constant 1988 prices). After adding in the normal
expected capital spending (but excluding the extra financial requirements to
put in place the new senior secondary structure), the consolidated budget for
the three academic years would be distributed as follows: 42Z for primary,
202 to junior secondary, 182 to senior secondary, and the remaining 202 to the
tertiary level (see Table 1).
Table 1
Public Educat?!on, Estimated Total Costs by Level
(1990/91 -- 1992/93 School Years a/
z
1988 Cedis         1988 US$           of Total
Primary                            52,935            262                 42
Middle/Junior Secondary            24,179            120                  20
Senior Secondary                   22,338            111                 18
Technical/Vocational                2,800             14                  3
Regular Teaching Training           1,877              9                   1
Specialist Teacher Training         1,062              5                  1
University                         17,821             88                 14
Overseas Scholarships               1,099              5                   1
Total                             124,111            614                100
Extraordinary Costs b/             10,513             52
Grand Total                       134,624            666
I/    A All figures in miIIIons. Costa Include the Ministry of Education's budget and scholarship
allocations included in the budget of tho PNDC Secretariat. Figures are not of cost
recovery and other private contributions, Including thos from local communities.
ki    Recurrent and capital costs associated with l-plme_tation of the senior secondary school
reform program. Includes equipmnt, curriculum developmnt, in-service tralning, and
construction and rehabilitation of clsare. .
Source: MOE and staff estimates
3.23        The approved 1991 recurrent budget for the Ministry  of Education
was 072 billion (Annex 3-7) an increase of 34.9? over the 053.4 billion
allocated in 1990. It is thus likely that actual budgetary allocations in



- 12 -
real terms have decreased between 1990 and 1991, as inflation was calculated
at 37.61 during 1990. Part of the reason for this marginal reduction in real
terms has been the poor performance of the economy in 1991 which grew at only
3.1? compared to 5.62 per annum over the previous six years; and part 's due
to the successful cost reduction and recovery measures introduced with the
reforms. The 1991 budget maintains the shares going to the different levels
of education outlined in paragraph 3.21 above. Also there is little change in
the shares going to different budget heads with 67.82 going to personal
emoluments in 1990 and 67.3? in 1991, 10.2Z going to other expenditures in
1990 and 11.4S in 1991, and 16.32 going to subventions in 1990 and 16.6? in
1991.
3.24        In the 1991 Public Investment Program (PIP), the Government's
allocation to educational investments is $4.). billion, compared with ¢8.0
billion in 1990. Thus in real terms, the 1991 allocation is only about 39Z of
that in 1990. The PIP allocations of most Ministries have faced a similar
decrease. The result of this reduction is that there is no PIP allocation for
the completion of construction of physical facilities at the new SSSs opened
in January this year, and thus the provisiong of funds under the project is
even more essential.
f\
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.    Background
4.01        The Bank's involvement in Ghana's education system dates back only
five years. The 1985 public expenditure review provided initial information
on the grossly inadequate allocations to education, and on the inefficient
allocations within the sector. A short study in the same year provided more
detailed information on the main features of the education system. In late
1985, the Board approved the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
1653-GH). USS 5 million of which was directed at meeting the sector's most
pressing needs, particularly the lack of textbooks and instructional materials
in primary school classrooms and at the universities.
4.02        Simultaneously, preparation work began for EdSAC I.  The Bank and
the Government worked closely together to evolve a long-term plan for the
education sector. The details of the plan were quite explicit in regard to
Junior Secondary school education, the first part of the structural reform
program, and more general in regard to senior secondary education, the part of
the reform whose implementation began with the 1991 academic year and
coincided with EdSAC II.
4.03        The Bank's short-term strategy entailed support of the first three
years of the multi-year reform program through EdSAC. Experience under the
credit has been positive, both in terms of educational achievements and in
terms of the credit's design and implementation. EdSAC I was predicated on
Government's implementation of a list of policy measures, with a flexible
allocation of funds linked to annual agreement between Government and IDA.
Credit proceeds were disbursed in three tranches for general budgetary support



- 13 -
to the education sector. Two tranche review missions have found the
Government to be in broad compliance with the credit's policy conditionality
allowing for the timely release of funds.
4.04        Given the relative success of EdSAC I, it was decided that a
follow-up operation should Le developed along the same lines to support the
second phase of the reform. This second credit (EdSAC II) became effective in
July 1990. As under EdSAC I, credit funds would be linked to the
implementation of policy measures needed to ensure the financial
sustainability of the new system. Funds would be disbursed in three tranches
(para. 78 of Report No. P-5244-GH).
4.05        EdSAC II was designed to support implementation of structural
changes in the education system in the second phase, a 10 year transitional
period that began in the 1987/88 school year. As with the introduction of the
junior secondary school system during the last three years, implementation of
the new senior secondary schools will entail extra financing costs. These
include purchases of equipment, development curricula, construction of
additional classrooms, and in-service training for teachers.
4.06        Under a general program to prepare for the relatively smooth
implementation of the new senior secondary school program substantial
resources from both EdSAC I and EdSAC II have been used to support activities
in the new schools. Agricultural, technical business, vocational and office
equipment has been procured and is being installed. Generators for all 90
schools not connected to the national grid are being procured, and even some
matching funds for communities constructing workshops have been provided.
4.07        At the time of appraisal of EdSAC II, it was calculated that there
would be a financing gap of US$59.9 million (Table 2), of which US$50 million
would be met by the credit, leaving a gap of US$10 million for school
construction-related expenditures at about 140 new senior secondary schools.
It was hoped that some co-financier could be interested in filling this gap
but none has been immediately identified. Given the lower than anticipated
investment budgets available for education in 1991, the need for additional
resources in 1991/92 is considerably higher than originally estimated.



- 14 -
Tablo 2
Estimated Financing ap (mlillions of current codle)
Thro-y ear
1990/  1991/  1992/      total
1991   1992   1993     (90/91-;2/98)
Cost to Government
with Reform            76,164  6,868  101,701    276,713
Aval able Covornment
Resources              78,127  86,977  96,140    266,244
Financing Cap             6,027  10,86   5,6,1     21,474
US$ (current)             14.8   80.2    15.4       59.9
Source: EdSAC II President's Report (Report No. P-5244-GH)
4.08        In order to cater for the intake of slightly more than 53,000,
some additional classes had to be openned. Where existing well established
schools generally had facilities in which the extra classes could be squeezed.
the new schools generally only had sufficient teaching spaces for the planned
classes. The total number of streams actually opened in existing and new
schools by region is shown in Annex 4-1, and further details on each of the
new schools including teachers, students and program options are shown In
Annex 4-2. The programs offered in the new schools are those finally agreed
at the time of EdSAC II appraisal, and were judged then as feasible.
Equipment is already ordered and teachers are in place. Given the lack of any
apprenticeship programs in the more deprived areas, Government decided (at the
time of EdSAC II appraisal) that the new schools should have more vocational
options than the existing schools.
4.09        All these new schools were planned and approved at the time of the
EdSAC II appraisal. However, though senior secondary school intakes in
January 1991 were almost exactly as projected at the time of EdSAC II
appraisal, combined enrollments in the new and the old senior secondary school
systems will exceed EdSAC II appraisal estimates by about 10,000 students in
1991 (or 5.6Z), 1992 (or 5.1Z), and 1993 (or 4.4Z). This is because there was
an unanticipated surge in intakes into the old senior secondary school system
in 1988/89, and 1989/90 as parents pushed their children into the old system
in order to avoid the uncertainties of the new. This will involve an increase
in the student-teacher ratio from 18.1 in 1989, to 21.2 in 1990 and 22.0 in
1991, even though there is a relatively low student-staff ratio in the first
year of operation of the new schools of only 13.4Z. Because no more than the
initially planned teachers were employed, these additional enrollments had a
very small impact on total education costs in 1991 adding only Cedis 185



- 1S -
million (0.24?) or 1.42 of secondary school costs estimated during EdSAC I1
appraisal. Government has agreed that until the new schools covered by this
project have been fully developed no further new Government supported senior
secondary schools will be opened. Thus only by running double-shifts in an
increasing number of schools will tbe 1990/91 JSS 3 to $SS 1 progression rate
of 35? be able to be maintained, and Government's long term goal of a 50Z
progression rate from JSS 3 to SSS 1 will not be able to be achieved in the
foreseeable future. Finally, it is expected that this project, by increasing
the number of secondary schools in more remote areas and thus bringing schools
closer to potential students, will have an impact on increasing th( enrollment
rate of girls in secondary schools.
B.    Community Initiative Approach
4.10        Under the Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of
Adjustment (PAMSCAD), Government developed a system of providing matching
grants for communities who were ready to undertake various development
projects to improve their communities such as schools, health centers, public
latrines and markets. One thousand such projects are being undertaken with
donor support. Under this scheme, Government estimates the cost of a
particular type of project, and on the basis of this determines a level of
support to be provided to communities undertaking the project anywhere in
Ghana. The level of support is fixed at between half and two-thirds of the
estimated total cost of the project, and is designed to cover at least the
cost of imported materials and highly skilled labor. Funds are disbursed to
the local communities on the basis of results. Approximately 50? is provided
when the project has reached foundation level completed, and the remainder on
completion. This Community Initiative Program (CIP) has been successful, has
mobilized very substantial labor and material support from local sources. and
has minimized the bureaucracy that would be involved if normal contracting
procedures were followed. CIP procedures have been used to provide three
multi-purpose workshops in most of the new senior secondary schools with most
of the buildings being completed within three months.
4.11        In August 1990, a joint mission from CIDA, UK ODA, UNDP, UNICEF,
USAID and the World Bank reviewed progress on PAMSCAD after approximately two
years of implementation. The review mission suggested four priority projects
where future donor and Government resources should be concentrated. The first
of these was the Community Initiative Projects (CIP's). The mission report
stated: "These require low institutional overheads, are responsive to
traditions of community self-help in Ghana, and have proven to be highly
visible. Recommend expansion of their scope and funding. Targeting of CIPs
to disadvantaged communities should be improved. Some projects could be
managed through NGOs on an experimental basis. Criteria for the selection of
CIPs should, in the case of the poorest communities, permit a lower level of
contribution from the community than the 40-502 of total project costs
currently required. Furthermore, communities should be permitted to make a
greater proportion of their contributions in labor."



- 16 -
C.    Project Objectives
4.12        The overall objectives of the project are as followst
(a)   to ensure that qualified junior secondary school graduates from
backward and deprived areas of the country have opportunities to
enter effective and relevant day senior secondary schools in their
neighborhood;
(b)   to ensure that essential physical facilities are constructed at
about 140 new senior secondary schools, and are ready to be used
by the beginning of the 1992 academic year in January 1992 and
January 1993; and
(c)   to ensure that local communities and district assemblies take
responsibility for the development and running of the new
secondary schools, and feel that the schools are their schools.
In addition, the project aims to ensure that each new senior
secondary school starts to develop a library, which as well as serving the
school, will become a community library; and to ensure that all the new
schools have hygienic and safe methods of excreta disposal for both students
and staff.
D.    Project Description
4.13        The project involves supporting communities in constructing
essential additional facilities in about 140 new senior secondary schools.
Following the approach successfully developed under the Program of Actions to
Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD), Government will provide a
two-thirds matching grant in two installments to these communities that first
complete the building's foundation from their own resources, and are committed
to provide one-third of an agreed fixed cost of a particular type of building
in cash, building materials or labor. The additional classroom, workshop and
other facilities being constructed will enable each school to have in the long
run at least three streams (360 students), which is considered to be a minimum
size if the new schools are eventually to be as effective and diverse as the
older established schools which have an average size of 672 students. The
facilities to be constructed under this project will enable enrollments to
increase by 18,000. The new schools are concentrated in the educationally
backward areas, and will for example result in a 682 increase in enrollment
capacity in the three northern regions. The project also intends to help
ensure that these new schools do not become academic islands, but instead
become real community schools serving the communities' interests. The process
started early in 1990 with a series of meetings which were held with all head
teachers of the 254 existing senior secondary schools in order to work out how
many students they would be able to enroll in the first year of the new SSS
system, both in terms of boarding students on the basis of a regional and
national selection process, and on the basis of day students from the JSSs in
the catchment area surrounding the school. Taking account of the distribution
of the 5136 JSS, the MOE was able to identify those districts or sub-districts



- 17 -
where new ESS were needed in order to ensure that places would be available
for 30Z of JSS 3 students in SSS 1. On the basis of this rudimentary school
mapping exercise, it was decided that these new SSS would be needed especially
ia view of MOE'a intention to reduce existing regional differences. Annex 4-3
shows some of the existing differences. In consultation with district
assemblies, and involved communities, the approximately 140 sites for the new
SSS were selected. In about 100 of these, well endowed JSS were to be
converted to SSSs, and for the remainder entirely new sites were selected. In
both cases commitments were obtained from the district assemblies and the
local communities to assist both financially and with labor in the
construction and furnishing of the physical facilities needed; and in addition
97 communities agreed to assist in housing the teachers. Each of the selected
sites was visited by high level and technical MOE staff. After the schools
opened in January 1991, additional information was collected by Regional MOE
staff on the students, the staff and the physical facilities actually in
place.
4.14        A multi purpose structure was designed by the Government
architects. This was a building 50 ft. long by 20 ft. wide, with a covered
veranda area. This building can be used, with the necessary non-load bearing
partitions as:
(a)   a science laboratory or workshop 40 ft. x 20 ft., with two
preparation/store rooms each 10 ft. x 10 ft.;
(b)   two classrooms each 25 ft. by 20 ft.;
(c)   a library 40 ft. by 20 ft., and a book store for textbooks 10 ft.
by 20 ft.; and
(d)   three offices, two at 10 ft. by 10 ft., and one 10 ft. by 20 ft.;
and a staff room 30 ft., by 20 ft.
The basic foundation design, and the different configurations are
shown in Annex 4-4. Technical details are shown in Annex 4-5. Guidelines for
local communities in the construction of this multi-purpose building are shown
in Annex 4-6.
4.15        All the seven core subjects in the curriculum are taught in full
class groups, whilst the three optional subjects can be taught in groups as
small as 20 students. It has been agreed that a space utilization factor of
at least 85Z should be used to calculate the teaching space requirements in
the new schools. The requirements of additional teaching spaces for each size
of school broken down between workshop/laboratories and classrooms is shown in
Annex 4-7. The requirements for each of these teaching spaces in each of the
new schools is shown in Annex 4-8. Whenever an odd number of classrooms is
required, an additional classroom is added, as each standard multi purpose
block is designed for two classrooms. A total of 575 additional teaching
spaces will be required.



- 18 -
4.16        Each school will also need a library, and a book store for the
textbooks which are loaned out for a book user fee. Only eleven schools
currently have such facilities (Annex 4-8). Each school also needs a staff
room where teachers can mark papers, and hold meetings. This is extremely
important in the new rural schools as there are often no other meeting places
in the vicinity. In addition, each qchool will need a small office facility,
including a general office, a headmaster's office, and a store. Again only
eleven schools have such facilities. Thus 132 units of both the library/book
store and the staffroom/office will be required, as shown in Annex 4-8.
4.17        Although 97 communities are providing some housing for the
teaching staff at the new schools, no schools actually own any houses on their
sites. It is considered crucial that a few teachers actually live on site, in
order to ensure that the library can be kept open for students and the
community after school hours, that extra curricula activities can take place,
and that there is some security overview of school buildings and equipment.
Two staff houses, each with two bedrooms, and each designed to accommodate two
bachelor teachers or National Servicemen will be constructed at each school.
The design is shown in Annex 4-9.
4.18        Of the total number of new schools, 90 schools are not connected
to the national electricity grid. Generators for these schools have been
procured using EdSAC funds, and the contract with the supplier includes the
installation but not the housing. These schools will all therefore need
shelters for their generators. The design is shown in Annex 4-10. The HOE has
recently procured drilling rigs to drill boreholes at schools where there is
greater problem of water supply.
4.19        All these facilities will be constructed using the community
initiative approach developed under PAMSCAD, and already used by most of the
communities in constructing up to three multi purpose workshops. For each of
the three types of structures (multi-purpose buildings, staff house and
generator shelter), detailed architectural drawings and construction
guidelines have been prepared in order to help communities plan their work.
(See Annexes 4-4, 4-5, 4-6, 4-9 and 4-10). Government has agreed that
communities or districts should provide one third of the cost of each
building, and then it would make a matching contribution of two thirds in two
installments. Given the extremely high motivation and experience to date that
exists in both the districts and the communities, there appears to be no
difficulty in the local share of the construction costs being raised. The
one-third contribution from the local community has been arrived at by
estimating the cost of unskilled labor, sand, stones and aggregate for the
standard buildings. In other words, only those costs that can be borne
through community labor are to be charged to the community, and thus in poorer
areas no cash contributions need be levied. On average the equivalent of
Cedis 12.6 million (or US$34,500) will be required from communities for each
school in the form of casl or labor.
4.20        Under the community initiative approach, communities can make
their matching contribution either in the form of labor or in terms of
materials or cash contributions from the community or the district assembly.



- 19 
They can complete the building through direct labor or by giving it to a
contractor, but Government has nothing to do with the contracting process, nor
does it have any contractual obligations or liabilities. For any building,
communities must show their readiness to make a contribution by preparing the
foundations from their own resources. Only then does Government make the
first of its two equal installments. The second installment is not made until
the building is two thirds complete. From experience in Ghana, about 9oz of
communities who express an interest in a particular project complete the
project within one construction season as long as Government provides its
share of the funding raridly.
4.21        It is important that communities are well briefed and ready to
start work before the end of the rainy season. It is planned that
instructions will be sent to each school and related district assembly at the
beginning of June 1991, a series of community construction training programs
held for district assembly and involved community ;-sders in July 1991 (para.
5.04), and instructions given for work to start in August 1991. The amount of
work to be undertaken varies from community to community. Not all communities
therefore can realistically be expected to have finished the construction by
the end of the first construction season.
4.22        An inspection team composed of the following has been created for
this project:
(a)   District Secretary;
(b)   Chairman, Technical Services Sub-Committee of District Assembly;
(c)   District Director for Education;
(d)   District Engineer;
(e)   School Headmaster; and
(f)   A Member of  District Implementation Committee for School Reforms.
in each of the districts with a new SSS, and given some orientation on how to
carry out its tasks. The main lesson learned so far is that Government
resources should be paid directly to the community involved in construction,
and not through the district assemblies, who have sometimes delayed passing on
the funds.
4.23        The project will also finance the procurement of at least 1,000
books for the library in each of the new secondary schools. These books will
include literature, textbooks, reference materials, and encyclopedias. Host
will be procured in 2 or 3 multiple copies. In addition, education charts
will be procured and posted up in the classrooms. The book and chart list is
included in the list of library books for senior secondary schools which is
part of the key documents in project file (Annex 4-12).



- 20 -
4.24        Almost all the existing secondary schools have a Mummy Wagon, or a
bus or truck donated by benefactors or charitable trusts, or in some cases
purchased by Government. These vehicles are widely used in transporting
textbooks and equipment from regional stores to the schools, in transporti.ng
football or other sports teams, for collecting monthly salaries, and
transporting farm produce from the school farms. GAven the more remote
locations of these schools, the rieed for a simple vehicle at each school is
essential. Thus each school, once it has demonstrated that it has a hygienic
method of excreta disposal for staff and students, will be provided with a
simple two wheel drive, single cabin pick-up truck. Specifications are
included in Arnnex 4-11.
E.    Project Costs and Financing
4.25        For construction, each of the main structures has been costed both
for Southern and Northern Ghana. The bill of quar.tities for each type of
structure is part of the key documents in project file (Annex 4-12). Costs
for Northern Ghana are 20Z higher than for the South, due both to increased
transportation charges for cement, roofing sheets and other manufactured
inputs and to the greater shortage of timber.
4.26        The following table shows the total costs of construction at April
1991 prices:
Tabl* 8
Construction Coet
Quantity Required    Unit Cost 0'000   Total
North  South       North    South      Costs Q'000
Multipurpose Building    126   466          7,200    6,000        8,836,000
Staff House               64   222          9,000    7,600        2,241,000
Generator Shelter         26    64          1,500    1,260         119,000
TOTAL                                                             5.996.000
4.27        As mentioned in paragraph 4.19 above, in no community initiative
approach are all projects ever completed; and the experience with the first
construction of multipurpose units carried out in 1990 showed that 9.8Z of
units were not completed within one year. It is assumed that with this
program 1OZ of the planned facilities will not be constructed and thus the
total expenditures by Government and the community will not exceed
05,396,400,000. Of this amount two-thirds (03,597,600,000) will be met by
Government using credit funds from the proposed project, and one-third
(01,798,800,000) from funds generated by the district assembly or the local
community. It is not necessary to make any allowances for price escalation,
as Government's matching contribution is fixed during the life of the project,
with any increase in costs being borne by the community. The matching grants
provided by Government (in two installments) are as followss



- 21 -
North             South
Multipurpose Building          04,800,000        04,000,000
Staff House                    ¢6,800,000 t5,0°0,000
Generatoe Shelter              ¢1,000,000        ¢  833,000
4.28        Accountability.  According to both the Ghana Education Service
(GES) and the Civil Service codes, officials are held personally accountable
for all moneys entrusted to them. In 1986, there was an audit of accounts of
all existing Senior Secondary Schools. In about 202 of cases significant sums
of money were missing. The involved headmasters and bursars were all ordered
to pay back the missing sums, and those involved in larger scale embezzlement
were dismissed and in some case imprisoned. The normal practice in the case
of suspected misappropriation has been first the freezing of the suspect's and
his wife's banX accounts, second the seizing of their passports, and third
negotiation with the public tribunals of a settlement which always involves a
refund with interest of somewhat more than the stolen amount.
4.29        In the first five hundred community initiative projects under
PAMSCAD there were only three cases of any diversion of funds by elected or
Government officials, all involving the purchase of inappropriate building
materials because of kickbacks offered by suppliers. In all three cases,
settlements were arranged to repay funds or replace materials so that
community's project would not suffer.
4.30        The full list of 380 titlh  of library books has been developed
and is part of the key documents in Lkth project file (Annex 4-12). It seems
that the average cost of a book (excluding the encyclopedias) ia US$8.
Negotiations with most of the major publ'shers have resulted in discounts of
35? off the published list prices. If three copies of each title are
purchased the total cost of the books ''ll be USS 848,000.  On the assumption
that the encyclopedias will cost US$ 50. ier school, the total cost of the
library books will be US$ 920,000. If .1Lo average cost of the book increases
beyond US$8, the number of multiple copie will be reduced, and the financial
allocation maintained.
4.31        Table 4 below summarizes the project costs and financing plan.
The recurrent costs for these new schools are included in the overall sector,
budget requirements shown in Table 1 above. The total project costs is
distributed as follows: 89? for building construction; 4Z for teaching
materials; 62 for vehicles; and 12 for specialist services.



- 22 -
Table 4
Project Cost and Financing Plan
Estimated Project Costs        Local       Foreign     Total
---- (US$ thousands) ----
Building Construction          10,349        4,436     14,785
Teaching Materials                -            920         920
Vehicles                          -          1,144       1,144
Specialist Services                36          180         236
Total Base Cost                10,385        6,680     17,065
Physical Contingencies          1,038          668      1,706
Price Contingencies               520          334         853
Total Project Cost             11,943        7,682     19,624
sta_ 8wmm
Financing Plan
Community/District Assembly
Contribution                  3,449        1,479      4,928
IDA                             8,494        6,203     14,696
Total                          11,943        7,682     19,624
4.32        Sustainability.  Because of the substantial community
participation in construction in the form of labor, materials or cash
contributions, the project will create a sense of community ownership of the
schools. This is expected to maintain the community's interest in supervising
teaching in their schools, and thus ensuring their effective operation. In
addition, the Government's unit recurrent cost support to the new schools will
be at the level agreed during EdSAC II appraisal, and the same as for the
existing schools. During EdSAC II tranche review particular attention will be
devoted to evaluating the cost and staffing implications (on the basis of
actual experience) of Government's long term JSS/SSS progression targets, and
of the different program options in the new diversified curriculum to ensure
long-term sustainability.



- 23 -
V. PROJECT IM?LEMENTATION
A.    Process of Proiect Preparation
5.01        The need for the additional facilities at approximately 140 new
schools was identified at the stage of EdSAC II post-appraisal in December
1989. Government requested the help of the Bank in obtaining assistance from
potential co-financiers in November 1990. When no co-financing was
forthcoming, Government requested the Bank for assistance. Government
prepared the project with Bank assistance in February/March 1991, and
appraisal took place in April 1991.
B.    Proiect Management
5.02        Under EdSAC I Government established a Project Management Unit
(PMU) in the MOE under the direct supervision of the Deputy PNDC Secretary for
School Education. The structure of this unit is shown in Annex 5-1. This PMU
has demonstrated impressive commitment and organizational capability
throughout the program from its inception in 1987 to date. Staff in the unit
have gained considerable experience in working with local communities involved
in school construction, both through the innovative 'school pavilion' program,
where 2,000 'roofs on legs" have been installed throughout the country with
the walls, doors and windows being the community's responsibility; and through
the first construction of multipurpose buildings at the new secondary
schools. In addition, PHU staff have been involved in more conventional
construction activities for water supply and latrines at existing secondary
schools. The PMU also has an efficient accounting and payment system, only
hampered from time to time through problems with the commercial banks.
5.03        The PMU is currenitly overextended in terms of procurement, given a
heavy burden of EdSAC II activities and recent staff attrition. However,
procurement under this project has been simplified, with most of the books
coming from sole source publishers; and only one single ICB item (for the
vehicles) which can use existing and well tried processes and documents.
5.04        Training of Technical Supervisory Staff.  Under the PAMSCAD
Community Initiative Project, it was realized that in some districts,
especially the most deprived, there were no competent technical staff
available to advise communities on the technical aspects of the construction.
In some districts, where engineers were available from the Public Works
Department (PWD), they were more used to supervising contractors than direct
community construction activities. The PAMSCAD secretariat in the Ministry of
Local Government prepared a 'Self Help Building Guideline' for these technical
staff and also formed technical advisory groups in each district made up of a
combination (depending on availability) of PWD engineers, Community
Development Technicians, and National Service technical personnel. Seven
five-day orientation program for these teams on assisting local communities in



- 24 -
community based construction activities were held in April 1991 with the
following participants:
Northern Ghana:       90 participants
Southern Ghana:      247 participants
Total                337 participants
These teams will provide technical advice to the communities constructing
senior secondary schools.
5.05        The Department of School Education has developed a system of
rapidly clearing goods from the port, warehousing and sorting for different
districts, and distributing to the districts using its own vehicle fleet and
chartering private vehicles. The majority of the staff used in these
activities are drawn from National Service men and women. This process will
be used to get the 163,000 library books distributed as rapidly as possible.
5.06        Data on enrollments, staffing, physical facilities and teaching
learning materials is collected annually in the school census carried out by
the Planning, Budgeting and Monitoring Division of MOE. Information between
censuses on the new schools is also currently being collected quarterly by
district education officers, again with the assistance of National Service
personnel. At the time of EdSAC II tranche reviews scheduled for September
1991 and September 1992 the Bank will also monitor program options, staffing
and enrollments in the secondary school system.
C.    Procurement
5.07        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5:
Table 6
Procurment Method by Expenditure Cntegories (USS millions)
Sole
Source
Project Category         ICB   Supplier     Other        Total
Building Construction      -       -         17.4        17.4
-       -        (12.6)      (12.6)
Toaching Mrterlal          -      0.9         _           0.9
-     (0.9)        -          (0.9)
Vehicles                  1.1      -          -           1.1
(I. 1)           _             (1. 1)
SpecialIlt Services        -       -          0.2         0.2
-       -         (0.2)      (0.2)
TOTAL                     1.1     0.9        17.6        19.6
(1. 1)   (0.9)    (12.7)      (14.7)
Note: Figures In parenthesis are the amounts to be tinanced by the prope-od credit



- 25 -
5.08        Building Construction.  All expenditures related to building
construction under this project will be small and scattered for about 140
locations with an average of three buildings construction per location
estimated to cost $30,000 each. They will be carried out by the local
community who will be responsible for undertaking construction activities
following standard modular designs. Communities have already been involved in
undertaking successfully various development projects under the PAMSCAD (para.
4.10). The cost of construction assessed by a qualified local engineering
consultants and verified by the implementing agency and the IDA (paras. 4.25
and 4.26), will be used as a basis for entering into a fixed price contract
for each type of buildings to be constructed under a contract between the
Government and the communities, the latter being duly represented by the
District Secretary, Presiding Member of the District Assembly and District
Assembly Member from the locality of the school. This procedure will assure a
reasonable contractual arrangement including the price. It should be noted
that the percentage of IDA financing to the total project cost (752) is well
below the country limit (902). Given the small size and scattered nature of
the works in remote locations, this arrangement is justified because
mobilization costs for contractors would be unreasonably high and this is the
only practical method for constructing the schools. Moreover, this approach
has been successfully used by the Government in similar circumstances and has
the additional advantage of providing a sense of ownership in the community
where the school is built. The alternative of centralizing procurement of
materials and their subsequent distribution was not considered because it
would add another cumbersome process to the central role of government. This
was contrary to the rationalization of the public sector being implemented by
the Government with IDA's support. The draft standard building constru^tion
contract agreement, which is part of the key documents in the project file
(Annex 4-12), was reviewed by IDA, for acceptance of the terms and conditions
including the assessed prices for various structures to be used as a basis for
entering into contract. No community will be involved in more than US$100,000
of expenditures related to building construction at any one time.
5.09        Vehicles, Books, and Consultants.  Vehicles will be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines.
For books, various publishers own the copyright, and thus they can only be
purchased through sole source procurement. Considering the limited number of
titles of books to be procured, it is expected that a better discount price
will be obtained by contracting directly with the publishers rather than using
an agent. Negotiations will be held with the copyright holders to obtain the
most favorable discounts off their list prices. All individual contracts for
goods are expected to be above US$100,000 and will be subject to IDA prior
review. The inspector/technical auditor will be employed in accordance with
IDA's guidelines for the use of consultants and subject to the normal prior
review by IDA.
D.    Disbursements
5.10        The proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed over a
fifteen month period with a completion and closing dates of December 31, 1992,
and June 30, 1993, respectively, given the high commitment communities have to



- 26 -
their new schools, and the simple and limited procurement actions. It is
estimated as shown in Annex 5-2 that 68? of the credit will be disbursed by
the end of the 1992 fiscal year. The expected disbursement period bears no
relationship to the historical average of 7 years for projects in Ghana,
because of the special nature of this project. Expenditures for building
construction will be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditures
(SOEs). Other contracts of less than US$ 50,000 equivalent will also be
against SOEs. In all cases documents will have to be retained for review by
Bank supervision missions and the project's external auditors.
5.11        The proposed credit will be disbursed as follows:
Table 6
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Proposed IDA
Allocation               S of Expenditures
Category of Expenditures          (US$Million)           Financed by IDA
Building Construction                 12.5                      67Z
Teaching Materials                     0.9                     100? foreign/
90? local
Vehicles                               1.1                     100? foreign/
90o local
Specialist Services                    0.2                     100?
Total                          14.7
5.12        Special Account.  A Special Account of US$4.0 million will be
opened to meet all expenditures for goods and services and maintained in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Replenishment will
be made against full documentation, except for those items eligible for
reimbursement on the basis of SOEs as outlined in Paragraph 5.11. Fifty
percent of the cost of buildings construction per school will be withdrawn
from the Special Account upon certification that the building foundations have
been completed. The remaining 50? will be disbursed when two-thirds of the
building's construction are completed. As all amounts under "Building
Construction' are disbursed on the basis of SOEs, the Task Manager, presently
located at the Resident Mission in Accra, must review all replenishment
applications, prior to dispatching them to the Africa Disbursement Division.
to ascertain that the claims are eligible as part of an ongoing supervision
process to be carried out in Ghana for the period of project implementation.
This means that 'certificates of two-thirds completion' and 'certificates of
full completion' issued by the inspector/technical auditor must be made
available with each replenishment request. Replenishment of the Special



- 27 -
Account with respect to the first 502 of IDA financing will take place
provided that the inspector/technical auditor certify that the SO? of IDA
financing has been used to complete two-thirds of the particular building.
The second 502 will still only be eligible for replenishment against a
certificate of completion by the same inspector/technical auditor. In the
case of any building that has received an allocation from the Special Account
and has not been completed by the project closing date, Government will be
responsible for replenishing the Special Account by the corresponding amount.
5.13        Audit.  The project and special accounts will be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. A separate opinion as to the
proper use of all amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs will be included in
the auditors' long audit reports. Certified copies of the auditor's report
will be submitted to IDA for review within six months of the end of the fiscal
year.
5.14        MOE will submit a consolidated progress report on the achievements
of the project to IDA on a quarterly basis. This report will include school
by school information, including details of the funds transferred to each
school, and of the physical facilities actually completed with credit support.
These reports will be submitted within one month of the end of each of the
following quarters: (a) September to November; (b) December to February; (c)
March to May; and (d) June to August. In terms of IDA's own supervision and
monitoring, in addition to regular supervision from the Resident Mission in
Accra, there will be special visits from a Bank architect in November 1991,
March 1992 and October 1992. Each trip will last about two weeks, and will
involve visits to a sample of project schools.
E.    Environmental Aspects
5.15        The project will have no adverse envixonmental consequences.  To
the contrary, as agriculture and environmental studies is a core subject in
the new senior secondary school curriculum, it is expected that the project
will help increase awareness of appropriate environmental practices. Also by
rewarding (by giving a simple truck) those schools that with their own
resources construct or provide hygienic toilets.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
6.01        The project has three key benefits.  First, there will be a
substantial improvement in access to senior secondary schools by youths from
the northern half of the country and other areas currently underserved by
senior secondary schools by increasing intake by 6,000, and enrollments by
18,000 student3 over a three-year period. Second, the project will support
the community initiative approach developed under PAMSCAD. Finally, because
of the self help involved, it will assist in forging links between the
community and the school, help create a feel.ing that the school belongs to the



- 28 -
community, and help ensure that the school facilities will be used for a wide
range of activities of importance to the community.
B.    Risks
6.02        The project has four main risks.  First, if funds are not
available by September 1991 at the latest, a construction season will be lost.
If this happens, the high level of motivation and commitment of communities to
their new school could evaporate, leaving the ccuntryside littered with half
finished buildings. Th9 second is that the community or district assembly
might divert project funds to some other use. The third is that buildings,
once started, are not finished due to internal conflicts or other reasons.
The fourth one is that communities might construct sub-standard buildings to
reduce their level of contributions. The first risk is being reduced by the
Government's advance planning for implementation, and can be further mitigated
by the Bank using special procedures to ensure rapid processing of this
project. The second will be reduced by having a standard building
construction agreement between on the one hand the Government and on the other
hand the District Secretary, Presiding Member of District Assembly, and
District Assembly Member or local community leader, the first two of whom will
be held accountable (para. 7.01). The third will be avoided by ensuring that
no community is allowed to start the construction of too many buildings at the
same time. The final one will be reduced partly through the standard building
construction agreement mentioned above, and partly by frequent technical
supervision.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01        The Government provided IDA, at negotiations, with a draft
standard building construction agreement, including the fixed price for each
type of buildings to be constructed, to be used as the basis for a contract
between Government, on the one hand; and the District Secretary, Presiding
Member of District Assembly, and District Assembly Member from the locality of
the school, the latter being the local community leader, on the other hand for
its comments and approval. This agreement specifies the community
responsibility for providing funding and/or labor, the acceptance not to
deviate from the standard designs, and the designation of the bank accounts
for the project.
7.02        During negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will!
(a)   start the process of recruiting the specia  technical consultants
who will be responsible for certifying the partial (two-thirds)
and final completion of buildings (para. 5.12);
(b)   submit an annual audit report of project and special accounts to
IDA within six months of the end of fiscal year (para. 5.13); and



- 29 -
(c)   submit a consolidated progress report on the project to IDA on a
quarterly basis (para. 5.14).
7.03        Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that Government woulds
(a)   submit signed final building construction agreements to IDA for at
least ten schools by all parties involved (para. 7.01); and
(b)   complete its community construction training and orientation
program nationwide (para. 5.04).
7.04        Recommendations.  Subject to the above terms and conditions, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit to the Republic of Ghana
of SDR 11.1 million (US$14.7 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity.
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



- 30 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Basic Educational Statistics and Indicators
1988/89     1989/90
A.   Primary Schools
Number of Schools                            9,368        9,831
Number of Classes                           57,056       61,472
Number of Teachers                          62,670       62,859
Number of Students                       1,598,443   1,703,074
Average Schooi Size                            170          173
Average Class Size                            28.0         27.7
Percentage Girls Enrolled                     44.5         44.9
Percentage Trained Teachers                   60.3         66.4
Pupil-Teacher Ratio                           25.5         27.1
Teacher-Class Ratio                            1.1          1.0
Percentage Growth in Enrollment                4.1          6.6
Percentage Growth in First Year              - 1.4         11.8
Nominal Enrollment Rate (Z)                   68.0         72.0
B.   Junior Secondary Schools
Number of Schools                            5,169        5,136
Number of Classes                           21,370       23,043
Number of Teachers                          34,584       35,262
Number of Students                         608,690      625,018
Average School Size                            118          122
Average Class Size                            28.5         27.2
Percentage Girls Enrolled                     41.3         41.3
Percentage Trained Teachers                   71.8         64.9
Pupil-Teacher Ratio                           17.6         17.7
Teacher-Class Ratio                            1.6          1.5
Percentage Growth in Enrollment               10.5          2.7
Percentage Growth in First Year               21.7          3.9
Nominal Enrollment Rate (Z)                   59.9         59.6



- 31 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 2
C.   R_ aional Disparities
2 Never
Attended        Gross Enrollment Ratio
School         Grade 1-9/Population 6-14
1984            1988/89      1989/90
Central                          41.6              85.8         86.0
Volta                            38.8               79.7        84.4
Eastern                          30.7              84.3         83.5
Ashanti                          31.3               79.0        78.6
Western                          38.1               77.6        77.1
Brong Ahafo                      44.3              77.1         72.9
Greater Accra                    24.0              59.3         58.9
Upper West                       81.4               35.2        40.4
Northern                         83.8              34.5         34.6
Upper East                       82.3               27.7        29.2
All Regions                      43.5               68.6        68.6
D.    Senior Secondary Schools (See Annex 3-3)
Source:     Ministry of Education. Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation
Division, and staff estimates.
a:ann3l (ja5-b)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ENROLMENT PYRAMID BY SEX AND  LEVELS / GRAUES OF EDUCATION  IN GHANA    1989 / 1990
1989190 ENROLMENTBYSEX AND GRADE
GRADE   BOYS      GIRLS
16                                      Pi      192421   171268
P2     170769   144397
P3     158988   129265
555                           ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~Pi.    150316   1181
PS     138151   106181
SENIOR SECONDARY                                        SS                                        SS1  128365   94341
JUNIOR SECONDARY                       BOYS                          GIRLS                       JZJ55    104t807   74012
M&     61859   4.1871
PRIMARY                                                SS2                                      551       24502   131J1
r/A/  ~~~~~52 22867 1207W
ssi  551                               553       22584   11714
MN  X @H~~~~KA                                          SS4  T8- S8L8 7785
J3t                                     TOTAL   14MB?  11077.710
M3                                     GRAND TOTAL   2.496.092
J2
P6
PS
Pi.
o  70  60   -   40  0  2P       a                          3b      4d 5e              66       7b
Percentage



- 33 -
Annex 3-3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Basic Statistics on Senior Secondary Schools
Number of         ~1988/89        1989/90        %Change
Schools                         245             250            2.0
Classes                       4,078           4,150            1.8
Students:                   154,477         168,000           10.9
Boys                      103,991        112,542             8.2
Girls                      50,486         55,458            11.0
Teachers:                     8,528           8,087          - 5.2
Male                          --            6,679            --
Female                        --            1,408            --
Trained Graduate Teachers     2,248           2,295  a/
Other Graduates               1,212           1,314  a/
Trained Non-Graduates         3,734           3,756  a/
Other Non-Graduates             716             722  a/
National Service                618            (731) a/
Rates, Ratios and Indices
1988/89          1989/90
1. Average Size of School          630.5             672.0
2. % of Students (Girls)            32.7              33.0
3. % of Repeaters (Both Sexes)       2.7               3.1
4. % of Boarders (Both Sexes)       54.1              54.2
5. % on Government Sponsorship      31.9              25.4
6. % of Trained Teachers            70,2              74.8
7. No. of Students per Teacher      18.1              20.8
8. No. of Teachers per Cla88         2.1               2.0
9. Average Load per Class (periods) 18.9              21.2
10. % Change (Total Enrollment)        --               8.2
11. % Change (Enrollment in Form 1)   --               11.6
!/  In 1989/90 National Service Peroonr l were Included among the four categorlie of teachers.
Therefore, comparison between the two yars is not possible.
Source:    Ministry of Education. Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation Olvision. Baslc
Statistics and Planning Parameters for School Education In Ghana; 1968/S9 and 1989/90.
July 1990.
b:nnn4.wp (Jao-b)



- 34 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMNUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Senior Secondary School Reform -- Proposed Curriculum
The new Senior Secondary school reform has been developed in response
to criticism that, in the past, this level of education had been overly academic
and, thus, removed from the country's development and manpower needs. The reform
will include a core curriculum to be followed by all Senior Secondary students,
along with five specialized programs, two or more of which will be offered in
each school. Students will select one specialized program, within which they
will follow one option, consisting of a package of three subjects.
The core curriculum will consist of seven subjectss   English,
Ghanaian languages, science, mathematics, agricultural and environmental studies,
life skills, and physical education. Options to be made available under the five
programs are listed below. (The fact that a school offers a particular program
does not mean that the school will offer all of the options listed under that
program. The number of options that any school will be able to offer will depend
on the number of students in that school, since the overall student-teacher ratio
in a school should never be less than 20sl).
I.    Anricultur&l Program
Option #1
General agriculture (soil scier -e, crop science, animal
science, farm management)
Farm mechanization
Horticulture
Option #2
General agriculture
Horticulture
Agricultural economics and extension
Option 13
General Agriculture
Parm mechanization
Horticulture



- 35 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 5
11. Comerce Prosram
Accountins Option
Introduction to business management
Any two of: accounting, business maths and costing.
or clerical
Secretarial Option
Introduction to business management
Typing (40 wpm)
Clerical office duties
I1. Technical Prolram
Building Option
Technical drawinglengineering science
Building construction
Woodwork
Metal Work Option
Technical/drawing/engineering science
Metal work
Another
Applied Electricity Option
Electricity/electronics
Physics
Mathematics
Auto Mechanics Option
Technical drawing/engineering science
Auto mechanics
metal work or another



- 36 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 5
IV. Vocational Program
Home Economics
Management in living
Food and nutrition
Cloth and textiles or another (general art)
Visual Arts
Art
General (history, appreciation, general concepts of art)
Plus any two of the following subjects (to be selected by schools
not students)
basketry
leather-work
graphic design
picture making
pottery
sculpture
textiles
V.    General Program
Arts
Option 11
English language
Literature in English
French
Option 12
English language
French
Ghanaian language
Option #3
Economics
Geography
History



- 37 
Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 5
Option #4
English
Ghanaian language
Drama and poetry
Option #5
Economics
Geography
French
Option #6
Government
Literature in English
History
Option #7
History
Christian religious studies/Islamic studies
A third subject, to be decided by school
Option #8
Music
Literature in English
Ghanaian language
Option #9
Economics
Geography
mathematics



- 38 -
Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 5
Science
Integrated options will be constructed from any three of the
following subjects:-
Biology
Chemistry
Physics
Mathematics



WIU.IC GP am"
aeumrri' S60f soms CSTaxTIO4 PRbJET
ptit Cost b7 Proarm: (A) ToXtl Coats. id (6) 0Dvernrnt Costa (Not of Student Faa)
UWit Coats (1990 Cadis per Student Year)
__________._r____ ____a______le }^@  Costs       Fi.ad Coats
Capital Stoct          Sol      ----t     _ . ----------------- -____________--_______._         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __._ -- - -----------------------   -. --  Tatel
Pa        ( Strom (bl UN)                                  r       Toel..  M                                                         V. -  i t Cast    t
__________ebrioda  8"ding    Ecuipeat                             Encl.  Taehinr d.                           (Variable  Coat Inds.
Prora      lblding1   Eqwint  per Week   ftintensoc* lbintao    Obtria  Teaeher* Stb-total Iooke  Staff   SuPpl. 8okaSub-tal * FiNe)   (Arts . 1)
(1)        (2)          (3)          (4)         (a)        (6)      (7)       (6)      (9)    (10)    (1-)    (1)        (3)       (14)        (15)
(A) TOrAL. COSM of
Art*       l         111.200   n 7.010           42.8          064        2 000    1.238   17 429   28.732    8,088 3814  1I.S00   3 ODD   38.352    67,0r4               1.00
Sciene              8176.400       n.'so        47.0         9.408        2'000    1.238   19.275   31 922   8'088    8.814   1S.D00  3S000    36.3S2    70.273           1.05
Caesura             aa1i.200      820 000        42.8        8.064        5.833    1.651   17 429   32.477    .088    .61114  18-S00  3.000   36.352    70.w2             1.06
Agriculture         6176.400      n1,0o0         47.5        9.408        2"oU    2.064   19 479      8618    8 .06    8,814   16.800  3,000   36'532      71'970         1 07
Vocational          *176 4t4O     SIO.          48.          9.406        2'as    412    1908e0   3602 80 08 .1 14   1600  3S000    36. 32    74444                       1.31
Tchaecal            617t400      6o,o            81.         9408        16.000    6.192  21121   82720   8.038    8.14  1S6.0    30W00    38.3S2    91 072               1. 8
(a) 00 6ff COStS *1
Arl                 61200          87 .S        42.    S      .064        2.030    1.238  17.420    28.372    0.088 *.814   2.620          0    19.672     4S.404         1.00
Scece               6176400        67.800        47.0        9.408        2        '000    1'238 s 1975   819  0         14     2.620      0    19.872     81.508         1.07
Co_ce               6131200       820,00D        42.8        6.064        SS33    1.651   17.429   32477   * W88       * 8.614   2.620     0    19.672 en149              1. 08
AgrIculfure          176400       *10.000       47.8         9 406        2 666   2.064   193479    88,81     8o0n       :'814    2.620    0    19.672    83.290          1.10
Vocatieoal          8170           1o0.000      40.8         9.406        2.65    4.128   19 .0    88.092      :O3      ' 14   2.820       0    19.872     887            1.1
TechnIcal  6176.400  660.000     81.8         9.406O d    t6.00    6.       1121    872       8.0880   6.814   2.820        0    19.672    72321.80
JUTiU                                                       (A) TTAL . () TOTAL
Eamag   1t  Q  1 * Cadla X).80                                                  S8O0
gupaa eltanneeo (aimual I of aobct)..........                10.06       10.1011
Sliding  mI.aeea (annual          I o O ato....2.01                             2.02  _
Stadeaa par elm.                                                    4S  4i                                                                                                                         tO
~~~"_~  ~ ~ b    del §rw   wCIw       raw ........i,eo
taaabr'aalaui(Cadla Per Near)........4106.000                   406:0100
ri  r /22  X2
ti      d ~~CCedIa).461                                             461
4  a o  wt   i _ t    (I  -    ....  _. ) .................................................  . m  mO l  
Poreroa per atudeat/aeb .........40                                              40
Olakl coat, paw  I   Iea (Cedla per pear).8MD                                     0
a~  ~reantleaStuden" Fees.
h/ Tabl Ma  fueat F_ea
111.m1U  IJA54)
07-fnv-"



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHDOL5 CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Proposed Numbers of Senior Secondary Schools Offering Different Programs/Options in 12990/1991
Proposed Number and Percent of Senior Secondary Schools Offering:
Agriculture o/        Cowerco                        Technical bi                  Vocational
Nun. of                                                                                                                  (Arts end
Region       Schools  Inc. FM  Ent. FM  Total   Acc'ng  Seer'i Ap.Elec. Auto..  Meta\W.  Bldng   Total   Home Et. Via. Art   Sci ness)
Ashanti            70      11X   24 34X  263 6X  14 20X   7 10t   11X            11X   12 17%   16 212   17 243   70 1003    70 100%      49 70X
Brong Abfat        40       1 82    16 40X   17 43X   6 153    4 103    183a      1       0x  6 SX   10 26%   10 26X  40 100%   40 1002    29 732
Central            41      1 M    20 493   21 S1    18821    6 123    12X 2         2%   e 161   13 323   14 34x    a7 90X    41 1002      26 63%
Eastern            63      1 2X   26 40X  26 41X   9 143    446         123       1 22   10 16%   18 29%   19 3ox    689X   63 1002        46 73x
Oreater Accer       82      1 a3    8 253    9 28X   8 25X   4 13    123X         1 3%   6 19X   9 286      9 28    276 4%    32 100%      25 78%
Northern            28      t 4X    15543   1t67c     4 14%   2 7       1 4%      1 4%    3 12X   8 29X    9 322   26 1OO2    26100X        12 432
Uppr East           16      1 3X   103 3   11 693    3 192    2 182    16X        1 63    3 192    5 31     6 88    161 0O0    16e100%      85SO      I
Upper West          12      1       05 0 BOX   768X   2 172    19 2    1OX        1 8X   4 83X   4 382    4 333    l1 92X    12 1003        7S8X
volts               67      1 2     1U82X  19 83      7 122    3 SX    12X        1 2X    3 5X   12 21X   19 83X   66 963    57 1002       3968 ex    4
Western             Be      1 33    19 472   19 603X   6 13    3 8X   I8 3X 1            7 18%   12 322   13 34X   37 97X   38 100X    21 SSX   °
ALL 10 RECIONS     397    10 3%   1640%  170 43X 72 18X  36 92   10 3x           10 3    80 152   108 273  120 93X 870 93    3 97100%    262 6s
at  Agriculture progrm_
Inc.\exc. FM = Including/excluding courses In fatr mechanization, the moat expensive and difficult-to-staff of the agricultural coures.
b/  Technical program:
Ap.Elec. = *pplied electricity option;
Auto.M. a auto mechanics option;
Metal W. a *oel work option;
BidI a building option.
Total: Smaller than the sun of schools offering each of the four options, becaute some technicol-bias schools would, under
MOE'. current proposal, be offering more than one of the technical program options.
x
K



- 41 -
Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 2
Wi A 
 
4, j "'
!    M1   0.  .  0.g.8~ .. .   8.. . .0g8 .8 .    ... 
ZS I 0 ! 0          C             CV  
y ~ ~~~        - - -                                  - - - - - - - - - --w8 8  7    c   t   t   {
11111   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
C4.
i   E  {   I   §$I o                  I     Io  
3                       0     N        r
*-S i               °@   o8 a§§et             i §         O d        f    
e~~~ |a.                   §.      §    §f j..    §  i8    
L'..~ ~ ~~~Z -                                 B NW    .-~^82          
hi!
a    a  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aC
>. w           ; ;.  *  T 83 
'~ ~~~ a g Iia *.i 5*:4 w e;      ;4    C        
1l~~~~~~~~~                   A u  vrcz  sc@9tJ3-a^ueu C
a       al -  - v--  --- a      e-S---                      --3---C
a       a _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    [______________
!  aM        H8t                  a88w8°S:    r 
I                                                                      
!  $!*°   :                                            |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4..
= =                                  



- 42-
Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 2
i~~~~~i ~~~0                     0
-------------------                                        
. . . . . .   .   ..      .   .    .    ..   .
§~~~~M ,                        'i i     i              i
3 |    i R R  S  i     -  i    S  i    8      e
I&g
| u             .4 ..
--            -      -    --j as l   ae -;;   -----   -
@~~~~~~i g                             '        ge88 @8 S  'S  a'e 
i   I    S                                     -t S;sW1    ip|v4  C U      
|  i°O      g 8o8   8  o8  o8      o8  o8B                     .4o    o 
III!        1@3ifi@||iN  g        1e§g   t>oS 
! #iC    ii8@   ta   a2 2g §Amt

        i                   ,}g|Siis   



*                                                                                         a                                                                   
S ~    ~  *    0                                          
a    g   fl   |    s    s          g              t              t            i~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
-   -    -   -   -    -    -    -    -    -   -   -   -   -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -    -    -   -   -~I 
|~~~~  -d  a-                               2 e        22       & e~ e               I        
,           ;;    ;*t  !f  R 8                             |               '|i]1   , I            
_  _    _    _    _    _     _    _    _    _ _    _     _    _    _    _    _    _    _            SI
_ _                                                                         _                            I       
|  g    Q    |    ;    e    ^    5>   t    e    "    l:   n    8    |  ^    | §   [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IfSZ
'   S   W  S  |  S  S  w  g X ; st g a e i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a S~
S~ ~ 9-                     5. _    e 8    1           ; s       8    ]      
T-- ---------------------- 0-- *                                                             t  
'~~~~~~0    * e-   5-  5-  5-                   5- i    e    e             I'I: 8        1 
,  W    X    g    |    E    |    |    |    g   §    g X    , g, g                      -
s.  sst   o      8              .       g       .                           za  - t 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~I              X
_ _     _    _    _     _    _    _    _    _ _    _    _     _    _    _    _    _    _ a
a                                            i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I -- -        -    - -    ------    ----------   -                    -- =----
--                          -  J--                   -------------
, - -    -        I        . !.  I   I                      sa        i  E 'I  !  i  ---    -
--------------------------w--""         "' """X              "- --s''5 85                    f
5a t                                      I
I~~~~~     ~~~        Ittlo*S* !                                       Iao";a"&u;t"u!a      i i
1~~~~~~~ 1                                          
*~~~~~~~ I~tJ                                -.          I 
I      [Fr    1                                  F!  "  r                 i0r iF~[
t Z    z            ~~         ~ ~~                      ~        ~~I  1     S
- -  - -  -   - -  -   -    -- - -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -   -  -   -
Jo I                           I.
7-I 3° T. VI
j_  X8U                                       t                           I



- 45 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 4
,~Tj 7                                                                                 -  -
lUigi~~~~~~                                                                   ~              ~~~~~~~~~ i       
fig,                                    _                       _ 
!    j  wj ---^^^   ^>^ ----------Z^-------------
*        - I ---.--                --     -    -
I~~~~~~~' Cs oo                                     ,                                                   o
U .4 . .444..                                                                 .
i    I      U4 j       _ _
L~ 9-                                                          I 0  _ _ _  __  _ __  _   VI I_ An _  2 _ _  ___
*    '0 ~       0 
I    i  i                 .0                                        o      
* I _  _    _    _  _    _    _    _ _    _    _    _    _  _    _    _    _ _    _    _    _  _    _    _    _
j~~~~*U j. 1                                       _                                                         _
i    i                                               3    .-eU U, ..        . 
*    I j          BIl49.~ 44                                                      IA       y* =FX   
I      41 r U *o t    tp   *pb^ -B^>Xg%4             3|JJ               [f                 }j8
_x.    _                                                                             2oSt  -  _-         a0tF0};     
o .                     S 
i. i  o               B: a 
'0   .      I +            s* .i                     .~            .!                                       . -- ~ £
.:                                                .
.7
-----------



---------------- t1' ------------;1                     X    ------ ----t--   '-----
I   I                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [i    fFt I 1 ~
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
'   ;t ;9tSt   Se* s a                  *                                                         es;9 ;t  ;U_S     b,sse ls a  a-a 
I  - --  -   -  -  -  -------{Etr£    i.fi    i    i  il t ---- -- --- -- --- --  -- - -- - I--, g§r         gr
- --      ----_-        ---_---_-           ---   -- -   -- -  -- -   --          ----_ _ _ _ __-
*   a                                                                                          -a-   e -    -    -    -    -  -    -   -  -    -    - --- - -- -   I   - --
i   a                                                                                         a    aI is I  a  j I  i   i
i t u <> b ~~~~~~e leeeUe                                              a        we  e uuuuu u_ ew jCwwwww e  iNaiq 
jt*  j       a  *a  t   O  s   b   as     W                                                   a e t    a W   W   a   i
_   a                                                                                         a  a a,
j i                    .1 8   fIeO1                                      aG r  o     a . ea,  l    P    Jwi  8u e e  e'ieeyw v eieR 1i
T -- -------------------I------------------'---,-  -------.' j ,
a -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - - 0  -aa                           A    -   t
a- - - - - - - -        ,t
t  a    t                                                                                     a  a               
--------------------------------------  ---------  0- 
7s-T-u--------S--------"-To~ ~~~~~~~-----------  ----------  ----
. . . . . . ~~~~~~,    S   t    ,t  j
O  v ~ ~ ~ ~ *~
z_t xouuv                                9fl -



- 47 -                              Annex 4-2
Page 4 of 4
.4~~~~.4-1~ 1i
3g~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ". 1.__________ .________ ._____ .__ .__..
7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-7~
--*I   -----------
,- I        -    -    -    -    -- -    -    --                 - - -     I -I --
--|.-------------------°T ----------^----------..
- - - - - - -  - -  - - - - - - -  - -  -  - -  - -  -   - -  - -  -
t~~~~~~~~~        ~     ~~~                             ~      ~~~~~~~~ '3i  a ,a 3  v
Ifi@_______________________________I_  .._...                                     . 
7--T-8 |¢^Z    *Xe*"**66**-  ee4*-*---T * e---                   '--- l- 
7-7 ----            -7 -----~~~~~~~~~~~II 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          S
&M~ ~~~~! jla  A"   -ei fi I i    13i 28  I             
i  ,i                               j .cS    ie
T-T-- ---   -------------                                       -               @
I j                                     J    a            I  * _ _ _ 1 _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- ----- - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
_______________________



- 48 -
REIPUIC OF KWA                                                     Annex 4-3
CO4"Y SECeoAY S6OL.  CONSTRUCTION PRJELT
Indicators of Regional Inequitleo
Senior Secondery Schoolo (1989/90)
IGROVTH IN ENROLMIENTII P1RCENTAOE (U) OP ii   CLASS LUAD PR    I I   STUDET /TEAR     I IPERCENTAOE ()                   It
l1 1988/89 TO 1989/90 II TRAINED TEACOERS  11   TEA0HR                    1    RATIO              I ISPOW     BY COVT. 
I---___._-     ____ II_-----__----------I --------- --- ---------- 11--------       ------ if ---------- I                  --------------
11 REGION            l     ACTUAL  I   RAW(   II ACTUAL  I RAWII ACUAL.  I  RAW    I I ACTUAL  I RA                        II ACTUAL  I  RAW    I I
I-I _____________     _                                                                                                      I-------------------   I--------- ---------  --------- ---------  --------- ---------I 1------ _1 - 1- 1
IIA  Ashanti            Il    9.18        6          1   74.64 l    a     II   20.8a I    e       II   22.76  1    1       1I   23.18 i    a       II
I I                     I I          I            I II              I      Ii          I          I I          I           I I         I           I I
118. Brong Akefo        Il   17.24 1    1         ll   7S.53 1    8       Il   29.08 1      1     I  1 21.33 1    4        ll   25.25 1    a       II
I I                     I I          I            I I          I          I I          I          I I          I           I I         I           I I
IIC. Central            Il    9.68 1    4         l   88.14 l    1        II   20.18 I    8       Ii   22.23 l    2        il   25.67 l    4       ll
l ID. Eastern           I I    9.681      S       I 1   78-29 1    a      I    21.62      8     I I   19.9B 6   I a      I    18.91!    7        I 
I !              ~~I I         I            I I         I           I I          I          I I          I           II    I                 ItI
IIE. Creteor Accra    l        1.S8 |    9        l    71.08 |    7            2 21.20 1    5     11   20.8   I    a       II   11.87 1   10       l 
lIF. Volts              II   13.48 l    2         ll   76.04 l    4       11   21.31 l    4       ll   18.61 I    9        ll   18.65 I    8       II
II                      It           I            il           I          11      ,    I          11           I           11          I           11
110. Western            ll   12.14 |    3         ll   81.21 |    2       l1   21.68 |    2       II   21.67        3 9    l    1S.90 I    9       ll
IIH. Northern           ll    3.-4 l    7         ll   54.22       10    ll   19.84 1    9        I    21.2S I    5        ll   75.511       3 S   l
III. Upper East         1I    3.52 1    8         II   S7.56 1    9       ll   20.67 I    7       II   19.68 I    7        ll   80.20 1    2       ll
11                      11           I            11           I          if           I          11           I           11          I           II
llJ. Upper West         ll   -8.88 I   10         ll   68.79 I    8       ll   18.94 l   10    ll   16.67 1   10    ll   95.94    1 1
I -I -----------------I --------   I------I I-                I ------- -   -I   I      ---------  I--------   I--------- I -I ------  I-----     - II
Source: Ministry of Education. School Sector Planning Parameters. October 1990.
b:*nn65.wk1 (jaS-b)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SChtOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A) Detailed Floor Plan for Workshop Laboratory
: EQUIPMENT
IJI                 PLAN          A        g        
_SS  MULTI PURPOSE  STRUCTURE PLAN r a... W9   WRK S OP
_, P _ '_  ffi   1          1 w                s                w                B~~~~~~~~~i 3
i 9 9  i   e   s    clan  $ -
GROUNO FLOOR PLAN             j---   --                                                             1
SSMUlTI PURPOSE STRUaTURE PlAN SCALEtX/; W,',  A.E.S.C.



- 50 -                                    Anc 4-4
B) Alternative Floor Plans                         A         2 4f 2
i) nW  classrows
<         25                 > <                25                 >
Classroca                               lssoz
ii) Library and Textbook Store
C     10       <                            40                           >
store                             Tr
iiu) Offices and Staffrofl
10     > <     10    > <                    30                     >
Geral 
Store                    I
Ceneral.
Office                     Staff m
He'
Office
.         ~       ~i      I



- 51 -
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Notes on Design for Proposed Multi-Purpose Structure
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1.        The request for this design was made by the PNDC Secretary for Works and
Housing in his letter to the A.E.S.C. and dated 31st July 1988. A.E.S.C. was asked
,to produce plans for Simple Multi-Purpose Structurew to be submitted to the
Ministry of Works and Housing not later than 15th August 1989. Before the
preparation of the sketch drawings the consultant was briefed on the project by the
Dy. Secretary for Education and Culture. The design was based on the brief.
2.    THE DESIGN
2.1         The design is an open structure comprising of a working hall, two
enclosed store units and an open verandah. The structure is designed to take 50
pupile.
3.    CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
3.1. Substructure
3.1.1.      Foundation: 20 Nos. 2'-60 x 2'-60 pad foundation for the
reinforced concrete columns shall be provided. The walls however shall be provided
with strip foundation.
3.1.2.      Floor Slab: The floor slab is to be cast from 1:2:4 mass concrete
and to be trowel-finished.
3.2. Superstructure
3.2.1.      Columns: The building is to be framed around 20 Nos. 60 x 60
reinforced concrete columns. The 6 Nos. columns in the end walls are tied together
by 5' x 90 reinforced concrete beam.
3.2.2.      Wall: External and partition walls are to be construction on 58
sandcrete blocks or bricks.
3.2.3.      Roofs The structure has a gable roof covered with short span
corrugated aluminium roofing sheets, fixed unto odum timber purlins. All timber
shall be seasoned and be given a coat of solignum wood preservative.
3,3. Joinery
3.3.1.      Doors: All doors shall be ledged, braced and battened doors.



- 52 -
Annex 4-5
Page 2 of 3
3.3.2.      Windows:  Jalousie windows to the sotrage area shall be made of
odum or similar hardwood.
3.4   Metalwork
3.4.1.      Rainwater Gutter: Rainwater gutter made from aluminium sheet and
held by mild steel brackets at 6' - Oe centres to the end purlins shall be provided
along the eaves. This shall collect rainwater and prevent erosion around the
structure. The rainwater may be collected in aluminium water tanks for use during
experiments or for watering plants.
3.5   Finishes
3.5.1.      Floor: The ground floor slab shall be trowel-finished.
3.5.2.      Walls: The walls shall be rendered on both sides and given three
coats of emulsion paint if constructed with sandcrete blocks.  Walls constructed of
bricks will not need this treatment.
3.5.3.      Columns: Columns shall be rendered and given three coats or
emulsion paint.
3.6   External Works
3.6.1.      Apron: A concrete apron shall be provided around the structure to
check erosion.
4.    MATERIAL SCHEDULE
In anticipation of materials being supplied to communities to construct
workshops for their local S.S.S., a list of basic materials required is provided
below.
4.1    Portland Cement                                         260 bags
4.2    Sand                                                     42 cu. yd.
4.3    Aggregate (3/43)                                         24 cu. yd.
4.4    40 Solid sandcrete blocks for foundation                660 No.
4.5   5S Solid sandcrete blocks for superstructure             950 No.
4.6    2'-6n x 8'-0  Aluminium roofing sheet                    7 Packets
(20 pieces/
packet)
4.7    8'-0o  Aluminium ridge capping of girth                   7 Pieces
4.8    Solignum Paint                                            6 Gallons
4.9    Emulsion Paint                                           10 Gallons



- 53 -
Annex 4-5
Page 3 of 3
4.10   Gloss Oil Paint                                           3 Gallons
4.11   1/2" Iron rod of 30'-0" length                           34 Pieces
4.12   3/4a Iron rod of 30'-00 length                           34 Pieces
4.13   2" x 6' x 16'-0" Odum hardwood for roofing
members                                                 60 Pieces
4.14   2' x 6' x 16'-O" Odum hardwood for frames                 7 Pieces
4.15   Putty                                                     3 Lbs.
4.16   2' x 4' x 16'-0" Odum hardwood for roofing
members                                                  1 Pieces
4.17   2'-80 x 6'-1O0  ledged braced and battened door           3 No.
4.18   l'-1O' x 6'-8" ledged braced and battened door            2 No.
4.19   4' brass butt hinge                                       5 Pairs
4.20   1' x 9' x 161-0' Odum hardwood                           14 Pieces
b:annlO.wp (ja5-b)



- 54 -
Annex 4-6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONTRUCTION PROJECT
Guidelines for Construction by Communities of
Multi-Purpose Structure
1.    Siting:  Site must be level where the ground slopes, structure must be
sited at the highest point.
2.    orientation:  Structure must be aligned in east-west direction.
3.    Substructure:
(a)   Excavation: Minimum depth for column base to be 2'-28 and that of
strip footing to be 2,-0.
(b)   Reinforcement: Place mat and column starter bars on 10 spacer
blocks in position on 20 sand blinding.
(c)   Concrete Works:
(i)   Columns Bases: Cast 2'-6' x 2'-6' x 91 column bases 20 No.
in 1s2:4 concrete mix using 1-1/2' aggregate.
(ii)    Short Columns: Prepare formwork and cast concrete in short
columns 20 No. 3'-6' high using 1:2:4 mix with 3/4'
aggregate.
(iii)    Strip Footing: Cast stripfooting for walls 1'-3' x 9' using
1:2:4 mix with 1-1/2' aggregate.
(iv)    Blockwork: Erect footing wall in 5' solid sandcrete or
landcrete blocks or bricks.
(d)   Fillings PRovide back filling around foundation and approved
harcore filling in foundation well rammed using e.g., broken
stones, latrite or sand.
(e)   Floor Slab: Cast 4' floor concrete in floor slab (where
affordable) and trowel-finished or provide well rammed latrite
(granular) surface finish of minimum 6' thick.
4.    Superstructuret
(a)   Columns: Superstructure could be erected with columns in A.
concrete or B. Timber with metal brackets. Timber shall be well
seasoned and preserved (see details in drawings).



- 55 -
Annex 4-6
Page 2 of 2
(b)   Trussess For columns in concrete prepare reinforcement as per
drawings prepare formwork and cast columns in 1:2s4 concrete mix
using 3/40 aggregate.
Erect 6 No. trusses fabricated according to drawings on reinforced
concrete columns after 20 x 61 hardwood tie beams have been fixed
using 3/49 rods already cast in concrete to hold them down. In
case of timber columns bolt trusses to timber columns using 1/2u
diameter bolts.
(c)   Purlins: Position roof members (21 x 60 harwood purlins) according
to drawings.
(d)   Roof Covering: Provide roof covering in corrugated aluminium or
galvanised iron sheets.
(e)   Walls: Erect walls in 5U sandcrete, or landcrete 1/ blockwork or
bricks as appropriate.
5.    Joinerys  Doors and windows in store rooms should be provided in
seasoned hardwood as per drawings and painted with 3 coats of oil paint.
Windows for workshop area could be jalousies or top hangeg batten windows
fixed to already hardwood frames where affordable. Where provided should be
painted with 3 coats of oil paint.
6.    Finishes: Painting of walls, floor screeding, plastering of sandcrete
blocks or bricks could be provided where affordable.
7.    Metalwork: Provide roof gutter in sheet metal (aluminium) fixed to steel
plate holders at 6'-6 centres.
S.    External Works: Concrete apron 1:3s6 mix with 1-112" aggregate or flower
beds to be provided as appropriate and affordable.
b:annll.wp (ja5-b)
1/    Where landcrete is used blockwork must be plastered.  Provide 9'
reinforced concrete lintol using 4 No. 3/4' rods over openings in the
store rooms.



- 56 -                             Annex 4-7
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Teaching Spaces Requirements By Size of School
Total
Number of            Teaching
Number of        Number of        Workshops/            Spaces
Stream          Classrooms        Laboratories          Required
1    =          3    +                 1                4
2    =           5    +                3    =           8
3    a          8    +                 3    =          11
4    =         12    +                 3    =          15
5    -         15    +                 4    =          19
6    =         18    +                 4    =          22
b:ann7.vkl (ja5-b)



57
------------   ----- --  --  --  --  ---  --  --  --  --  --
-ga.gst  -~:; ^ ^   "    n t                "^^^"   TAnnex4-8
7------------- Il:::::: ¢:::";L:::"bC1Page1of 4
,. ------------------^------------   -^--- ----^-"--          I
A 't          .  .   .   .   .             I
-   -   -   -   -   - -  -    -     - - - - - -  - - - -    
,~ ~~~               -- o  I                            0 '
;' rb           '       ----------
,   'F ==================-- ===-----   
5   X                                             , :: ::  :  1 : :    :::_8_J
_        j I     jeUeRUeflRfllflfflflff  3 jneRnae  SRU   R
7  ---- 7---
-         1
g    .      o  ',g, eeneeeenene¢^^Zze   g  jeeee"*tz    I
g0!iitli,i,i'Si,!.iCil 4iS3i1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--- 77---------------T---- 
Is               ,IlluI
i  I                                                    I
- - - - - - - - - - - - -=_ ==_ _



58
-------- ==_=_=====___=___=_Annex 4-8
,    1 *   , | *-d  *,q*--db * 10t4 *96Wd#4aV * C                                                                Pase 2 of 4
.~ ~        C ,_______   a_________________._..
,    i ttF"_"    oF_Z^"             IC        ON "_^"^"        _^^ 4
:~        I __  __________1B _ _                        _     _    _    _
- - - . -j  -   - - - - -  -  - - -   .4 -       ----  - - -   4
.  =   ==_==__  -------         -      ---___=_ 
. ----    j"------    ----*            t|o "e-rov -o 8
:i s;I ga "            ""*I       "       
I - - 8 X - -  -J -J -.4*j
I  {- i    -                      -              
---       -          --                       -
! §! !      !'------- --- '"e   t  !sa9a--*S--- 
_______________
_______________ -_  b_________      .                               _ 
3 3 lCCClCCCRCClCC 3 I.Q9W4a2SSC$t4f6SlCS t81s
,     R~8uf3 .4 .. ,                                                    ,3iuul
________________________                        _       ___
.01            i 
_________________ _                                                 ___ 



5q
U                 ---- -                                                                       -  ----
==_ ========__=_---==== :==__===-==----- :. :1                                                                            Page 3 of 4
i     ------7-----                         -- ------
! E... |mmmmm- -- *    *                                                    -- ***d1----
~~a  1V      - -       ---             -----------
--------i-i
-N --------------------------                          4 
Mi i W1 1 : : i-                                            I                                      'I
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 0-             - - - --   - - -   -0-- - -
11E  1:                        -,  -        -------  -          C    *
tV                    I   V -~~~~~~~ 
Si              Hi Omih ,j  ,
I, b                         *ie_**_____   a_a_______ ._____                                       -.
i  g   .   U;   I a:                                   4I             _
j*                                                                                                    I   "   ^      a"""Zc"  ""      "a"*"^r^"  
jo3jE                   i                                     t.~                             -
,      Iy                                                     a  eZee,rz-^-""e**          -"w ww^ --    
_ _ _ _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _      _ _   _                  _   _   _   _  _                  _
___________________________________           ___________________.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Ia.u
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ I~ !5                                                               I .eeeg   *ee   eeed    f      aeeo* 
,  ,__30 _______ _|_____   __    __      ____     |     _   _   _4_          _        . .I
I~~~~~~i    .. ItiS   !    ~                                                                 I ia8
iE,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Ii-s|                 X I,i
ji   j'   0               Ii  jX It *! §s  ZZ]                                     Ii !
e {w  Lz    _ ---- ---- ----Li----   -------------~~~~~~~~~~~~                  a 
i5I_   _    _____



60
-----------            ------------------                      w Ad^   -----^"-----------
_E_>_ |_______________  __________________..__ ._. .Annex 4-8
7_-------- _ _ _      _    _      _    _     _     _    _     _    _      _    _      _    _
jB i g ie^*^~^""""n*^h~ gi"w*^wt  ^¢ $ 1"*^^** t; 191 #l                                               Page 4 of 4
ci~~~~~~~E~
it   f  lflnnmi.n..innn                                                                   I
V-N TI   I --
ie-'i                                         -------- -
-7 --------------n  fin ~-------
-  ----------- -          1-----n
s '_d_'_________-------------____--- -    -- -_____
*u __ 7_7 -------------- 7---------------------- _------
IWfi-2             fi 0e 1       IM                          j|
i.Ee i                                                     I.i  I
C,  ,                                                                                     .        
jl 2]                                                                                 li 1O    S   ^
jffl  j inj                  - ~~I-Iji40.          Of     0 lOlfO O NI  0
iX  '-i'---------------T---- ------------- ----------
l ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ II 
l~~~  ~~ SJ--_-________________ _j  _____ 1.
Z  syj~~~~~I j1oUeZnd-** 'w-n.1 * .j1*   tj 2                               1 
-=-===-============= II=    =r  ===I- =
l' I gjIflOQ90.^C4U(WSn¢^ NIClO18@N4 69 5 je-ie--S! 58 
i                                                                               iIS   LI _ 
zw«i@X^ee""nb  on"^    v                                          nInn    e
Zj~~~~~~I I                     j                          ii            Z
; }11I. ;;AIibh    u;;L..X{, I    'AX    I
@~~~~~~ ~~ .jiaXoeo^ne -no*   ece"-e    3 



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Proposed Design for Staff House
S  I.                                I..I                                     .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I   "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~ ....
Li C- I|--V <'                              2 -t
'Ai 2       -
XT>~-=. I- 1i                               I
sl lp \   i--V     -
GRUDPA .              S      ACRAScl             ,  ,tOH
-S- -YJ-  ' 
GROUND PLAY  A .E .S . C., ACCRA   Scale = 1/8" =1'-0



- 62 -Annx 4-10
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Proposed Design for Generator Shelter
S          ~~13-0
... --  
. . _ _ = @ -                        -  --            PERP0:On A? _
4S * 6 COVeREO OUCT IN FLOOR    ,       C
*GENERATOR   ~
_~                         Bl    3 E N C M
ge6ertoE. =rro
6 -                         MRC-TAL.s 
-   ~~~~~~~~~Z               1 DOOR                      -
js    6o1-  Os- 3_          31- 6I
5 X         ~~~~131- o'          S 
1310 1O10
4A           GROUND PLAN



- 63 -
Annex 4-11
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONTRUCTION PROJECT
Technical Specification for the Supply of Motor Vehicles
I.    Description
Type:       Pick up Cab
Payload:    1000kg
Drive:      2 x 4
II.   Technical Specification
1. Main application. General duties all over Ghana.
2. Principal features sought.
Type: - Cab Pick Up normal or conventional controlled
- Two door
- GVW 2500 KG Approx.
- Ground clearance 190Om minimum
3. Engine.
a)    Diesel 4 stroke, 4 cylinder in line.
b)    Minimum output power 50 KW (DIN) net at rated engine speed (RPM).
Torque, fuel consumption curves and all other engine
characteristics to be submitted by Bidder.
c)    Natural aspiration.
d)    Positive oil fuel filtering with replacable elements.
e)    Fuel tank, 60 litres (min) capacity with strainer and sediment
drain.
f)    Dust proof crankcase breather and oil filler cap.
g)    Heavy duty radiator tropical cooling system. Direct drive cooling
fan.
h)    Heavy duty dry type air cleaners Bidders to specify full detail of
design of air filteration.
4.    Clutch.
a)    Heavy duty single dry disc type.
b)    Specify facing area diameter and other details.
5.    Transmission, transfer and driveline.
a)    Mechpnical, floor mounted shift lever.
b)    Maxt -;   speeds forward and 1 reverse.
c)    Heav, duty full floatingi axles. (preferred)
d)    2 wheel drive.



- 64 -
Annex 4-11
Page 2 of 3
6.    Suspension.
a)    Front:
- Type:     Independent Double - wishbone arms torsion bar spring
with stabilizer bar.
- Shock absorbers: Double acting heavy duty telescopic.
b)    Rear:
- Type:     Semi-elliptical alloy steel heavy duty leaf springs.
- Shock absorbers: Double acting heavy duty telescopic.
7.    Steering.
a)    Left hand side control.
b)    Mechanical preferredt other makers standard - Bidder to specify.
c)    Specify minimum turning radius.
8.    Brakes.
a)    Power assisted.
b)    Disc type front.
C)    Drum type rear.
d)    Dual hydraulic circuit.
e)    Mechanical parking brake.
9.    Wheels, rims and tires.
a)    Best quality and size for all tires (urban and rural duties).
b)    All tire should be the same size.
c)    Specify make, size .nd tread of tires.
d)    Spare wheel mounted on a suitable carrier.
e)    Tire with inner tubes.
10.   Electrical and ancillaries.
a)    12 volt system-
b)    Heavy duty batt ;.ic  specify characteristics (AH).
c)    Heavy duty starter and alternator. Specify (V-KW) and (V-A)
respectively.
d)    Hazard warning light.
e)    Exterior light and indicators to conform with Ghanaian
regulations.
f)    Makers standard ancillaries to be specified by Bidders.
11.   Cab accessories.
a)    Full tropical ventilation (specify).
b)    Seating capacity: 5 persons approximately.
C)    Safety belts rear and front.
d)    Laminated windshield.
e)    Dual outside rear mirrors.
f)    Inside rear view mirror day/night type.
g)    Front seat bucket type.
h)    Dual tone horn.



- 65 -
Annex 4-11
Page 3 of 3
i)    Makers standard features/accessories to be specified by Bidders.
J)    FM/SW radio tropicalized.
12.   Instruments/monitoring equipment.
a)    Odometer/speedometer/tripmeter reading to 0.1 km.
b)    Engine temperature gauge.
c)    Low engine oil pressure warning light.
d)    Battery charging gauge.
e)    Fuel level gauge.
f)    Makers standard provision should be specified by Bidder.
13.   Chassis.
a)    Makers standard to be specified by Bidder.
14.   Special equipment.
a)    Not applicable.
15.   Bucket equipment.
a)    Specify: height, width and length.
b)    Specify material used and type of construction.
16.   Metal used.
Bidder are to specify the type of metals and their thickness (in mm)
used for body, floor and panel fabrications.
17.   Protection against corrosion.
a)    Optimum and guaranteed protection is required against corrosion.
b)    Bidders are to describe in detail anti-corrosion treatment
provided in respect of body frame, floor underbody.
18.   Colour finish and markings.
a)    Manufactures standard.
19.   Tools and toolbox.
a)    Bidders should specify accompanying tools kit together with
suitable hydraulic jack, wheel spanners/tire pressure gauge in
lockable tool box.
b)    Warning traingle.
c)    Refer to special condition of contract, specifically to clauses 13
and 14.
d)    Owner's manual in English with maintenance and lubrication chart.
20.   Miscellaneous.
a)    Fuel tank security lock within.
b)    A suitable fire extinguisher is to be provided.
bsANN14.WP (JA5-B)



- 66 -
Annex 4-12
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONTRUCTION PROJECT
Key Documents in Project File
1.    Suggested List of Library Books for Senior Secondary Schools.
Ministry of Education, April 1991.
2.    Bills of Quantities for Buildings.  Ministry of Education, May
1991.
3.    Draft Building Construction Agreement.  Ministry of Education, May
1991.



REPUBLIC OF GRAM
COMHUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Management Unit
PNDC                SEC                  MOEC
PUDC                   UNDZRSECRETARIzS
SCHOOLS/HIGHER         EDUCATION/CULTURE/NF_
COMUNITIES
_             _Tt  _ _  UNIVERSITIES
I I 
EDUCATION  ADVISOR   EdSAC    _ _|_NATIONAL PSANRING COMM_ _
SHORT TERM  CONSULTANT                                                                           OR SCHOOL RZPO RM8
(FOREIGN AND LOCAL)                                                                                (CIMSULTATIVS)
COORDINATOR         SCHOOL          EDUCATION                                                0
PROJECT  PROJECT  PROJECT  PRDJBCT  CO-ORD       CO-ORD                    ~~~~1. ARCHITECT 2i()s~r
OFCER            OFCER             OFFICER      OFICER                                 ACCO|/A/      2. CIVIL /\\\
SRSIC        2ND oitca                    smDeR |l)  OFFICER         PROGfIRmC
DIPROCUREMENT                      PROGRA- M     mLOSTC ,_.3. QWUT m
SURVEYO (I)
| A88T. PR 3n5r OFICCR 
|  PROJCS ASSISSTA       |                                                 |
IST1
SU spPOYU5AV                                     DRIVERS



- 68 -
Annex 5-2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal
Year and        Projected Disbursements   Proportion Disbursed
Semester           (in US$ millions)
Semester     Cumulative   Semester  Cumulative
(US$ million)
1992   1st       4.0        4.0            27.2        27.2
2nd      6.0        10.0            40.8        68.0
1993   1st       4.7       14.7            32.0       100.0



- 69 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
List of Senior Secondary Schools
---------------    -----------------------I------------I----------------------------
II    REGION    I        DISTRICT          ILOCATION NO.1             SCHOOL             II
hA. ASHANTI    IKumasi                     I           1 IKumasi Sec. Tech.
11               I                                    2 lArmed Forces Sec. Tech.
II               lAtwima                   I           3 INkawie Sec. Tech.
II               I                         I           4 IMpasatia Sec. Tech.            II
1l               lAmansis East             I           S IJacobu Sec. Tech.              II
II               jAmansie West             I           8 lEsaase Bentefufuo Sec. Tech.1i
II               I                         I           7 lAdubia Sec.                   II
11               lAfigya Sekyere           I           8 lAgona Sec. Tech.               II
II               IKwabere                  I           9 IKofi Adjei Sec. Tech.         II
II               lOffinso                  I          10 INamang Sec. Tech.              II
IEjura Sekye Dumas.       I         11 lEjuraman Sec.
I                         1         12 ISekyedumase Sec.               II
IAsante Akim North        I         13 lOwerriman Sec.
II               lAsante Akim South        I          14 IOfdase Sec. Tech.              11
II               jAdansi West              I          16 lAkrofuom Sec. Tech.            II
II               lAdansi East              I          16 18adwesango Sec.
II               lAhafo Ano North          I          17 IMaban Sec. Tech.               1I
IAhafo Ano South          I         18 lAhafo and South Sec. Tech.
Eji8su Juaben             I         19 IEjisu Sec. Tech.
I                         1         20 IBonwire Sec. Tech.
II               I                         I          21 IAchinakrom Sec.                I
tI               IBosomtwe Atwima Kwaman 1            22 IBeposo Sec.                    I
II          ~~~I                       I             I                              I
II               INumber of Schools        I          22 1                               il
II               I                         I             I                               iI
1I8. BRONG AHAFOITano                      1          23 IDuayam Nkwanta Sec. Tech.   II
II               I8erekum                  1          24 IJinitini Sec.                  II
II               IJaman                    1          25 IGoka Sec. Tech.
1               IWenchi                   I          26 IBadu Sec. Tech.                II
||               I                         1          27 IKoase Sec. Tech.               II
||               ITechiman                 I          28 lAsuogyaman Sec. Tech.          11
II               IKintampo                 1          29 IJema Sec.                      11
1I               INkoranza                 1          30 IBosonyas Sec.                  1I
11               iDormaa                   I          31 IMansen Community Day Sec.   II
II               ISene                     I          32 IKwame Danso Sec. Tech.
1               I                         I          33 IKatidi Sec.                    I
I1               lAsutifi                  I          34 IGwamfi Kumanin Sec. 
INumber of Schools        1         12 1                               II
II    _    _ _       _ _       _ _       _ _ _          _ _      __I  I  I 
II          ~~~I                       I             II
IIC. CENTRAL    ICape Coast                I          36 Ifakatsir Sec. Tech.            II
II               jEdina/Kemenda/Eguafo   I            38 IKomenda Sec. Tech.             II
II               iMfantsipim               I          37 IMankfssim Sec. Tech.           II
II               lAbura/Asesu/Kwamankese 1            38 IAbakrampa Sec. Tech.
II               iGomos                    I          39 IGomoa Sec. Tech.               II
II               IAwutu/Efutu/Senya        I          40 ISeny& Sec.                     II
II               I                         I         41 IObrakyere Sec. Tech.            II
II               lAjumako/Enyan/Esham    I           42 IDenkyirs Sec. Tech.            II
II               IAsikuma/Odoben/Brakwa  1            43 lOdoben Sec.                    II
II               lAgona Swedru             I         44 IKwanyako Sec.                   II
1I               lUpper Denkyira           1         45 IKyeremfem Sec. Tech.            II
II               I                         I         46 IDiaso Sec.                      II
II               ITwifo Hemang             I         47 IJukwa Sec.                     II
II               lAssin Fosu               1         48 lAssin North Sec. Tech.          II
II               I                         I             I                               II
II               INumber of Schools        1          14 1                               II
II               I                         I             I                               11
II--------------I-----------------------I------------  I----------------------------



- 70 -
------------------------------------ I           ------------ I ----------------------------
II    REGION       I        DISTRICT            ILOCATION NO.1                SCHOOL               II
------------------------------------ I------------ I----------------------------
lID. EASTERN       INew Juaben                  1           49 IKoforidua Ada Sec.
1I                 ISuhum Kraboa Coalter    I               50 ISuhum Presbyterian Sec.
1I                 IAkwapim South               I           61 iNsawam Sec.
II                 I                            I           62 IAIuri Sec. Tech.
1I                 lAkwapim North               I           63 lAdukrom Sec. Tech.
11                 IWest Akim                   1           64 lAsamandese Sec. Toch.
II                 1Birim South                 I           66 lAcheas. Sec.
II                 I                            I           66 lAdoiso Sec.
11                 I                            I           67 lOda Attafush Sec. Tech.
II                 IBirim North                 I           68 INew Abirem Sec.
II                 lAsuogyaman                  I           69 lApeguso Community Soc.
II                 IKwahu North                 I           60 IT*es  Sec.                         II
II                 IKwahu South                 I           81 ISt. Paul's Sec.
II                 I                            1           62 IPepeas. Sec. Tech.
II                 IKwaebibirem                 I           63 lAkim Wenchi Sec.                   |
II                 lEast Akim                   1           64 IKibi Sec. Tech.
II                 lYilo Krobo                  I           e6 IKlo-Agobo Sec.
1                 IManya Krobo                 I           88 lAkuse Sec.
II                 I                            I           67 IAkro Sec. Tech.
II                 I                            I               I                                   I
11                iNumber of Schools           I           19 I                                   iI
:I- --  -  -- -  -  I-- -  - - -  -- -  - ---   I-  --  - --  - __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I----------------------------
IIE. GREATER       lAcera (Metro)               I           68 IKinbu Sec. Tech.
!I    ACCRA        ITems                        I           89 lAshaiman Sec.
1I                 I                            I           70 IManhean Sec. Tech.
11                 IDangme East                 1           71 ISege Ada Sec. Tech.
IDangme West                 I          72 IAsutsuare Sec. Tech.
IGa                                      73 ITorkuse Sec.
I I                                      74 lAmamsman Sec. Tech.                I
II            I                           ~        ~I      I                                   I
INumber of Schools           I            7 I                                   iI
IF. VOLTA         IHo                          I           76 ITsito Sec. Tech.
II  I         I                         76 lAkome Sec. Tech.
I I                                     77 ITanylqbe Sec.
IKets Krachi                 I           78 jKeto-Krachi Soc. Toch.
I I                I                            1           79 IBanka Sec. Tech.
II  I                        I          80 IAsukawkaw Sec.
INkwanta                     I          81 18rewaniase Sec.
II                 IAkatsi                      j           82 lAkatas  Sec. Tech.
II                 I                            I           83 IAv.-Dakpa Sec.
IKetr                        I          84 lAtiavi Sec. Tech.
II                 IKpandu                      I           86 IVakpo Sec. Tech.
11                 I                            I           86 IP-ki Soc. Tech.
IKetu                        1          87 IThree Town Sec.
II                 INorth Tongu                 I           88 lAveyime Battor Sec. Tech.
11                 gSouth Tongu                 |           89 IDabala Sec. Toch.
IHohoe                       1          90 IAkpafu Sec. Tech.
I                            1           91 lAlavanyo Sec. Tech.
IBuem                        I          92 IOkadJakrom Sec. Tech.
II  I                        I          98 Ieaglo Sec. Tech. (increase
II  I                        I I                intake before take off)    II
|Number of Schools           I           19 I                                   II
------------ -     I----------------- I-- - -   - -- - --  -I----------------------------II



- 71 -
-------------- ----------------------- I -   I-----------I ----------------------------
II    REGION      I       DISTRICT          ILOCATION NO.1              SCHOOL             It
110. WESTERN    iShams Ahanta East          I          94 IDiabene Sec. Tech.
II                I                         I          96 lAdiembra Sec.
1I                I                         I          96 iShame Sec.
II               lAhanta West               I          97 lAgona Nkwanta Sec. Tech.
INzima East               I          98  Esiama Sec. Tech.
II                IJomoro                   I          99 IJomoro Sec.                     I
II               lWassa Amenfi              1         100 IAsankragws Sec. Tech.
ISefwi Wiewso                       101 ISefwi Wiawso Sec. Tech. 
II                        I         102 lAsanwenso Sec.
BIibiani-Anhwiaso-Bekwail           103 ISefwi Rekwai Sec.
II                IJuabeso Sia *                      104 IJuabeso-Bia Sec.
il                I I                                 106 IDebiso-Essem Sec. Tech.          I
I g               IWass. West               1         106 IPrestea Sec. Tech.
I I               I                         I         107 IBonao Sec. Tech.
jAowin Suaman             I         108 INana Brentu Sec. Tech.          I
II  I                     I         109 IDedieso Sec.
IMpohor Wassa West        I         110 IDaboase Sec. Tech.
II                I                         I         111 IUpohor Sec.                     I
II          ~~~I                        I              II
I XXINumber of Schools                                  18 s                              II
--  -  -- - --  -I-- - -  - - - -  - - - -    - - - -  - -I--  - - -- -  - -- - -  -- - -
INUMBER OF SCHOOLS IN   I                I                               II
ITHE 7 SOUTHERN REGIONS I           111 I                                11
--------------  I-----------------------   ------------   ----------------------------
11H. NORTHERN    ITamale                    j         112 IKalpohin Sec.
II                I                         1         113 IVittine Sec. Tech.              I
11                IDamongo                  I         114 IDamongo Sec. Tech.
II                IKpandai                  I         116 IKpandei Sec.
II               IWulensi                   I         116 lIWulensi Sec.                   I
11                IBunkpurugu               I         117 i8unkpurugu Sec. Tech.           I
Iwulugu                   I         118 IWuiugu Sec.                     I
1I               ITuns                      I         119 iTuna                            I
1I               lYandi                     I         120 IDagbon Sec. Tech.
IChereponi                I         121 IChereponi Sec. Tech.
II                ISaboba                   I         122 ISaboba E.P. Sec.
II                IGushiegu                 1         123 IGushiegu Sec.                   I
lZabzugu                  I         124 IZabzugu Sec i.
II                ITolon                    I         126 ITolon Sec                       11
il                IKumbungu                 I         126 IKumbungu Sec.                    I
11                ISavelugu                 I         127 ISavelugu Nanton Sec.
II               IKpong-Tamele             I         128 IKpong-Tamale Sec.
II          ~~~I                                      I                                I
INumber of Schools        I          17 1
-------------- I-----------------------I------------ I----------------------------
1II. UPPER EAST IBawku East                 j         129 IBawku Sec. Tech.
IBawku West               I         130 IKusanaba Sec.
BuiIsa                    I         131 IFumbisi Sec. 
II                Iflongatangs              1         132 IKongo Sec.
iKassena Nankani          I         1383  O.L.L. Sec. Tech.              1
Il  1  1   134 IChiana Sec.
11                1                         1         136 lAwe Sec. Tech. (Awaiting
II                I                         I              I  feedback on take off of   11
I I               I                         I              I  school)
Bongo                    1         136 IBongo Sec.
I I                                 137 IGowrio Sec. 
11                INumber of Schools                    9 I                                 11
Ii                I                         I           __-I  _____ ------------------II
IIJ. UPPER WEST ILaswra                     I         138 lEremon Sec. Tech.
Ijirapa/Lambusie          i         139 iUllo Sec.                       II
I                         1         140 IPlins Sec.
ISisele/Tumu              j         141 ITumu Sec. Tech.
I'adawli                            142 IKsleo Sec. Tech.                1
II  I                     I         143 IDaffiama Sec.
II                INumber of Schools         I          6                                   I
-----    I--    I                                          I
I I               IINUMBER OF SCHOOLS IN   I               I                                11
li                ITHE 3 NORTHERN REGIONS I            32 1                                 11
I I ==__=====    I                      - =============_____=_        --=   -- =------ =__==I 
II               INUMBER OF SCHOOLS IN
II               tALL 10 REGIONS            I         143 1
I AI  NW===== ==:J===I==:== =    -    =________= _== __I
B:ANN2.WK1 (JA6-B)



/~3S  137    30 ToiR                                  GHANA
GA                                    ~~~~COMMUNITY
32  ~ ~ ok~d~SECONDARY SCHOOLS
8.dil 31Ga~bgaClCONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Location of New
N~~~i. ~~Secondary Schools
28                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ROAD5
bb.             ~~~~~MAJOR SECONDARY ROADS
MAINOR SECONDARY ROADS
I 1              12 ~~~~~~Zo~o~REGION HEADQUARTERS
ch-b.lq~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~NATIONAL CAPITAL
Da-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g. 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R EGION 8OUNGA RE S
116             ~~~Note: Red Numbers Denote
COTE                                                 115                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Locotions Of Communitv
Seccndory Schools.
D'IVOIRE                                      C) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b~,I                See Lis, Of Schools
Followirg Mcp.
0  ,   -                 o{id06
6                                                                        S ~~~      ~     o~ooe.z6zAtb~b
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ro~lo A 00046
Eju.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A co.o2  0R
23~~~~~~~~EOD 34               22~Re
d  13  8   0        -4,                  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n h M,O0k A0o
G-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3p~fooo,oo
61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
7  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                      2'                           0'~ 8,fyd~    04                                                                   2'



