Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15212
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2278-GH)
DECEMBER 20, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit      =      Cedi
US$1               =      365 Cedis
(May 1991)
US$I               =       I,100 Cedis
(June 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER                       SCHOOL YEAR
January - December                     January - December (Senior Secondary)
September - June (Basic and Tertiary)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
CIP                 Community Initiative Program
CSSCP              Community Secondary Schools Construction Project
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
JSS                Junior Secondary Schools
MOE                Ministry of Education
NORAD               Norwegian Development Agency
ODA                Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom)
OPEC               Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAMSCAD            Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
PMU                Projects Management Unit
PTA                Parent/Teachers' Association
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SSS                Senior Secondary Schools
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
USAID              United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................i
PART  I:  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ......................................................I
L  INTRODUCTION  ......................................................1
IL  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ......................................................2
A. Project Objectives ......................................................2
B. Project Description and Components ......................................................2
C. Credit Covenants and  Special Agreements ......................................................4
D. Evaluation of Objectives  ......................................................4
E. Achievement of Objectives ......................................................5
I   IM PLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ...................................................6
A. Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability ......................................................6
B. Sununary of Costs ......................................................6
C. Financing Arrangements ......................................................7
D. Implementation Schedule ......................................................7
E. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives ......................................................8
F. Bank Performance ......................................................8
G. Borrower Performance ......................................................8
H. Assessment of Project's
Outcome             ......................................................8
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................................................9
A. Important Findings from  Project Implementation  Experience ....................................................9
B. Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Ghana ...................................................... 10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ......................................................11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .....................................................                                                                        12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits .....................................................                                                                          13
Table 3: Project Timetable ..................................................... .                                                                           13
Table 4: Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ m) .............................................. 14
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing                                                                     ..................................................... 14
A.  Project Costs (in SDR  Equivalent) .....................................................                                                        14
B.  Project Financing Estimates (US$ Thousands) .....................................................                                               14
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                                                                     15
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................................                                                                  17
Table 8: Project Output Indicators .....................................................                                                                     18
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................                                                                      19
Table  10: Technical Assistance Financed by Project .....................................................                                                    20
Table  11: Training  of Personnel Financed by Project .....................................................                                                  20
APPENDIXES .....................................................                                                                                             21
A: Missions' Aide-Memoire
B: Borrower's Contribution to ICR
C: Map
Tls document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
lofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                                                 l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2278-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Community
Secondary Schools Construction Project (CSSCP) for which Credit 2278-GH was
approved on June 25, 1991 in the amount of SDR 11.1 million (US$14.7 million
equivalent in 1991) to the Republic of Ghana, and which became effective on August 7,
1991. A Special Account in the amount of US$4 million was established on September
17, 1991.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995 after three extensions from the original
closing date of June 30, 1993. It was disbursed up to the amount of SDR 10.6 million
(US$15.18 million equivalent in 1995). Disbursements were made until August 31, 1995
when the undisbursed amount of SDR 446,223 was canceled.
This ICR was prepared by Ms. Margaret Kilo and Ms. Rebekah Kirubaidoss of
the Population and Human Resources Division, West Central Africa Department. It was
reviewed by Mr. Nicholas Bennett (Principal Education Planner, AF4PH), Mrs. Irene
Xenakis (Portfolio Manager, AF4PH), Mr. Ian Porter (Division Chief, AF4PH) and Mr.
Franz Kaps (Operations Adviser, AF4DR). The Borrower provided comments on
October 8, 1995 which have been integrated into the report and can be found in Appendix
B of the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in April
1995 and completed during final discussions with the Borrower in October 1995. The
ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and other relevant records. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing relevant data, preparing
its own evaluation of the project, and commenting on the draft ICR. As part of the
preparation of the ICR, the Bank's Client Consultation Fund supported a beneficiary
assessment of the project during the months following the closing of the project. A copy
of the beneficiary assessment is available from the Africa Information Services Center.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2278-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Bank's Role in the Sector. By the mid- 1980s, the Government, together with the
Bank and other donors, started a long-term plan of educational reform by restructuring
the curriculum, reducing Ghana's pre-university program from 17 to 12 years, and
restructuring the financing of the system. The first phase of the reform program (1987-
1989) focused on primary and junior secondary education, supported by the Education
Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1744-GH). The second phase of the reform (1990-1994)
was supported by the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH) and
entailed the reform of the senior secondary school (SSS) system. This phase focused
mainly on structural reforms, controlling school system staffing levels, and keeping
expenditures in line with budgets (para. 1.1).
2.   In 1991, the Community Secondary Schools Construction Project (CSSCP) (Cr.
2278-GH) was developed to further support the Education Reform Programme by
providing secondary school facilities in deprived areas using the community initiative
approach tested under the Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
(PAMSCAD). Under PAMSCAD, the Government provided matching funds to
communities' contributions made in cash, materials, or labor, for construction of school
facilities (para. 1.2).
3.    The Bank is continuing its support to the formal education sector through the
Literacy and Functional Skills Project (Cr. 2349-GH); the Tertiary Education Project
(Cr. 2428-GH); the Primary School Development Project (Cr. 2508); and the Vocational
Skills and Informal Sector Support Project (Cr. 2695-GH). A Basic Education Sector
Investment Project (GH-PA-975) is under preparation, and should be appraised early in
1996.
4.    Project Objectives. The overall objectives of the project were to ensure that
(a) qualified Junior Secondary School (JSS) graduates from underserved areas of the
country had opportunities to enter effective and relevant day SSSs in their neighborhood;
(b) essential physical facilities were constructed at about 140 new SSSs, and ready to be
used by the beginning of the 1992 academic year; and (c) local communities and district
assemblies took responsibility for the development and operation of the new secondary
schools, ensuring community ownership. In addition, the project aimed at securing the
development, at each new senior secondary school, of a library which would serve the
school and the local community, as well as hygienic toilets for the use of staff and
students (para. 2.1).



ii
5.    Project Description and Components. The project provided support to about
140 communities to construct SSS facilities, following the PAMSCAD approach. The
new facilities would: (a) provide a vocationally-oriented curriculum in deprived parts of
the country; (b) bring schools closer to potential students; (c) increase the enrollment
rate of girls in secondary technical schools; and (d) increase overall SSS enrollment by
18,000 in 1993, resulting in a 68 percent increase in the enrollment capacity of the three
northern regions (Upper West, Upper East, and Northern Regions). The project
components include:  construction of classrooms, workshops/laboratories, offices,
staffrooms and staffhouses; provision of library books; construction of generator shelters
where needed; and for the construction of student and staff toilets using their own
resources, each school would be rewarded with a pick-up truck (paras. 2.2; 2.4 - 2.7).
6.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. Agreements with the Borrower
(Republic of Ghana) were reached on the following issues, namely, that the Republic of
Ghana would: (a) enter into Building Construction Agreements with communities
concerned which shall have been approved by the Association; (b) pursuant to the
Building Construction Agreements, obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association; (c) through the Project Management Unit, prepare
quarterly progress of project execution and submit such reports to the Association; (d)
maintain records and keep accounts adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures of the project; (e) furnish to the Association not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, a certified report of the Special Account prepared by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association. The credit covenants and special
agreements were complied with during project implementation (paras. 2.8; 2.9)
7.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The main objectives of the project were to
increase access to SSS, particularly to students from underserved areas, and to involve
districts and communities in the development and operation of the new schools. These
objectives were consistent with the priorities of the Education Reform Programme,
remained relevant to the most pressing needs of the SSS system, and were reconfirmed
during the informal mid-term review in August 1993. In addition to furnishing essential
school facilities, the project would reward each school with a vehicle for providing
hygienic toilets for the use of staff and students. To accommodate the new students, the
facilities were to be quickly constructed by the local communities with the support of the
Government following the PAMSCAD approach which had produced many Community
Initiative Projects (CIPs) using Ghanaian self-help traditions. By involving the local
communities in school construction, it was envisaged that they would have access to the
library books and share the facilities to which they had contributed (paras. 2.10-2.13).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
8.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The new schools increased
enrollments by 30,712 intakes (of which 25.5 percent were girls) in 1992, as compared to
the original SAR target of 18,000 intakes by 1993, in all project schools. The total intake
in 1995 is 45,279 students, of which 37.2 percent are girls. The project provided multi-



iii
purpose units including classrooms and workshops or laboratories (621 compared to 581
in the DCA); libraries and bookstores (151 compared to 132); staffrooms and offices
(152 compared to 132); staff houses (370 compared to 286); and generator shelters (102
compared to 90). It must be noted that in 100 of the 157 project schools, facilities were
added to existing schools, hence the small number of classrooms relative to intakes. In
total, 16.7 percent more square meters were added to the originally estimated quantities
and the construction cost was about 70 percent of other Bank-supported projects. All
project schools were rewarded with vehicles for constructing toilets using their own
funds. All communities contributed labor in varying degrees, but the project was less
successful in accomplishing the objective of involving the communities and district
assemblies in the management, maintenance, and utilization of the facilities to which they
contributed. Most communities and district assemblies did not clearly understand their
respective roles, and as a result delays in community construction led to private
contractors being engaged to take over the entire construction component of the project.
The school management committees, established in 1989 to support community
initiatives, have been more effective in some communities than others. Today, district
assemblies have responsibility for school management, however, the role of the
community remains less clear (paras. 3.1 and 3.9).
9.    Summary of Costs. The project was estimated to cost US$19.6 million with the
Government contributing US$4.9 million, comprised mainly of community and district
assembly contribution in cash, kind, or labor, and an IDA financing of US$14.7 million
(see Table SB). The Credit disbursed US$15.18 million, an amount higher than the
appraisal estimate due to changes in the US dollar/SDR exchange rate. A detailed
breakdown of the cost of project components in SDRs is provided in Table 5A (para. 3.2).
10.  Implementation Schedule.  At the post-appraisal stage of EdSAC II, the
Government identified the need for additional SSS facilities to cater to the increase in JSS
enrollments due to the Education Reform Programme. Together the Government and the
Bank prepared the project in March 1991. The project went to the Board on June 25,
1991 and became effective on August 7, 1991. Although originally estimated to be a
quick-disbursing project and to close after two and one-half years, the project was
extended three times and fully implemented over a four-year period (para. 3.5). This is
still remarkable for the Africa Region. Originally due to close on June 30, 1993, the
Credit closed on June 30, 1995. Disbursements were made until August 31, 1995 and an
outstanding balance of SDR 446,223 was canceled (para. 3.4).
11.   Project implementation during the early years was slow for several reasons.
Firstly, the project was designed as a CIP with required facilities varying from school to
school, but the Government tried to standardize construction so some communities were
asked to contribute toward buildings they did not want or to support fewer buildings than
they needed. Secondly, the project was launched during the period coinciding with the
harvest season and its high labor demands. Thirdly, this was also at a time when district
administrations had spent most of their annual budgets and could not help communities
with funds to start the buildings according to the CIP tradition. Fourthly, by insisting that



iv
all project funds pass through their accounts, district assemblies delayed construction due
to their weak accounting practices. Finally, community enthusiasm waned during the
time it took for the technical auditors to certify that they had completed a particular phase
of work and the time they received payment (para. 3.5).
12.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives.  PAMSCAD had
succeeded in reaching out and involving local communities throughout the 110 district
assemblies in the 10 regions of Ghana, and as a result, it provided a favorable
environment for launching the community participation initiatives of the CSSCP. During
project implementation, however, the factors identified in paragraph 11 above, weakened
these initiatives.   Further, communities involved in the CSSCP were not equally
endowed in terms of leadership and material resources.  Others lacked water supply,
adequate roads to transport building materials and equipment, and communication
facilities (such as a telephone).  These inequities led to inequality in the rate of
construction among the different sites (para. 3.6).
13.   Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank interacted
efficiently with the client and responded in a timely manner. The Task Manager
outposted to the field was available for direct consultation throughout the entire reform
process and for most of the life of this project. This role was critical, particularly for the
procurement process in school construction. For example, the Task Manager established
a system of expediting the process of screening and approving all withdrawal
applications, which included the verification of the level of construction work as
ascertained by the technical auditors for all schools, before they were sent to the Bank for
replenishment of the Special Account (para. 3.7).
14.   The Government demonstrated its strong commitment to the Education Reform
Programme by maintaining the same experienced and competent staff in the PMU
throughout the life of the project. When it became clear that some sites would not be
completed before the project closing date, the Government made timely arrangements for
counterpart funds to be set aside for this purpose (para. 3.8).
15.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The CSSCP expanded access to secondary
schools for students in underserved parts of Ghana by furnishing school facilities at a
lower cost per unit than similar Bank-supported projects, provided more facilities, and
enrolled more students than estimated at appraisal, contributing significantly to the
absorptive capacity of the sector. In this respect, the project is classified as satisfactory.
The community participation outcome was partially successful since communities did
contribute to school construction but have not taken responsibility for school
management (para. 3.9).
IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
16.   The procurement for civil works was handled directly by the district assemblies,
providing support to local communities in their construction activities, with each phase of



v
work certified by independent technical auditors. The unit costs of construction were
around 30 percent lower than construction of similar quality procured under other Bank-
supported projects.   The modular approach simplified construction sufficiently for
communities and small-scale local contractors to manage. Simplicity of design, and the
location of the task manager in the field helped ensure rapid initial processing, and
implementation over four years, less than half the regional average for PHR projects
(para. 4.1).
17.   Bank pressures for rapid appraisal of the project meant that the complexities of
mobilizing community support was not fully appraised.  Implementation experience
showed that the key factor in the mobilization of community participation was local level
leadership, but little attempt was made to find out whether such leadership existed or not.
The project assumed that there was a commonality of interests between the newly
established but cash-strapped districts and the communities surrounding the schools. In
fact, the district assemblies wanted to control this financially significant activity, and also
often wanted to delay passing on eligible funds to communities or contractors, but lacked
the capacity to manage construction activities or project accounts (para. 4.2).
18.   When community participation is to be relied upon it is very important that
enthusiasm, once created, is maintained.   If, through delays in payment or other
problems, initial enthusiasm is lost it is very difficult to resuscitate. Therefore, it is
important to launch a community construction project only when all systems are fully in
place so there will be no delays. Even without delays, it is uncertain that community
construction activities will not be interrupted. Consequently, in countries with significant
inflation rates, some automatic allowance for inflation should be built into construction
projects (para. 4.3).
19.   The land tenure situation on some of the new sites on which construction was to
take place should have been clarified before the agreements were signed with the local
communities. The final six-month extension of the project was largely due to problems
on sites where there were conflicts between the schools and the landlords (para. 4.4).
20.   Finally, it should be emphasized that the efficiency in the development and
appraisal of this project demonstrates the advantages of a strong field presence in the
processing and implementing of projects. This should have significant impact on the
eventual location of responsibility for the vast proportion of simple PHR projects (para.
4.5).
LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN GHANA
21.   The CSSCP has provided a number of key lessons for future projects within the
education sector: (a) the advantages of field presence for project preparation and
supervision; (b) the efficiency of using technical auditors to monitor the progress of
construction prior to payment; (c) the need to spend a great deal of time and effort in
preparing community participation activities; (d) the necessity to properly time project



vi
launch in order to ensure maximum community participation and the necessity to
continuously maintain this motivation; (e) the need to pay communities and local
contractors directly and not to pass through an intermediary such as a local government
authority; (f) the advantage of using a modular, standardized approach for civil works;
and (g) the difficulty that the Ministry of Education has in effectively communicating and
controlling activities at the district and community levels (para. 4.7).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2278-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   By the mid-1980s, the Government, together with the Bank and other donors,
started on a long-term plan of educational reform by restructuring the curriculum,
reducing Ghana's pre-university program from 17 to 12 years, and improving the
financing of the system. The first phase of the reform program focused on primary and
junior secondary education and was supported by the Education Sector Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 1744-GH) for US$38.1 million from 1987 to 1989. The second phase of the reform
was supported by the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH) from
1990 to 1994 for US$50 million, and entailed the reform of the senior secondary school
(SSS) system. This phase focused mainly on structural reforms, controlling school
system staffing levels, and keeping expenditures in line with budgets.
1.2  In 1991, the Community Secondary Schools Construction Project (CSSCP) (Cr.
2278-GH) was developed to further support the program by providing secondary school
facilities in underserved areas using the community initiative approach tested under the
Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD). Through
the project, the Government would provide matching funds to communities' contributions
made in cash, materials, and labor, for the construction of school facilities. The IDA
credit of SDR 11.1 million became effective on August 7, 1991 and was originally
scheduled to close on June 30, 1993.
1.3   Community Participation in School Construction and Maintenance.  Under
PAMSCAD's Community Initiative Project (CIP) the Government had developed a
system of providing matching grants based on community performance which were used
to undertake the development of schools, markets, health centers, etc. The level of
support was usually between one-half and two-thirds of the estimated total cost of a
project and was designed to cover the cost of imported materials and highly-skilled labor.
Fifty percent of the Government's contribution was paid when the foundation was
completed and the remainder upon completion of the project. CIP also successfully
adapted Ghanaian traditions of self-help to mobilize substantial labor and material
support from local communities while reducing the bureaucracy of normal contracting
procedures. In August 1990, a review mission consisting of the Bank and other donors in
Ghana (CIDA, ODA, UNDP, UNICEF, USAID) recommended that: (a) the contribution
of poorer communities be reduced; and (b) communities be allowed to make a greater
part of their contribution in labor.



2
1.4   Using the "Self-Help Building Guidelines" prepared by the Ministry for Local
Government and PAMSCAD, groups of technical staff who would assist local
communities in building the SSSs were trained under this project. It was further expected
that according to CIP tradition there would be sufficient community ownership and
interaction between the schools and communities to assure maintenance of the buildings
and vehicles thus acquired.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A.   Project Objectives.
2.1   The overall objectives of the project were to ensure that (a) qualified JSS
graduates from underserved areas of the country had opportunities to enter effective and
relevant day SSSs in their neighborhood;  (b) essential physical facilities were
constructed at about 140 new SSSs, and ready to be used by the beginning of the 1992
academic year; and (c) local communities and district assemblies took responsibility for
the development and operation of the new secondary schools, and ensure community
ownership. In addition, the project aimed at securing the development at each new SSS,
of a library which would serve the school and the local community, as well as the
provision of hygienic toilets for the use of staff and students.
B.   Project Description and Components.
2.2   Community Involvement and Regional Equity. At its onset the project involved
providing support to about 140 communities to construct SSSs.  Following the
PAMSCAD approach, the Government would provide a two-thirds matching grant in two
installments to the communities after they completed the building's foundation using
their own resources, and committed to provide one-third of an agreed fixed cost of a
particular type of building in cash, materials, or labor. The new facilities constructed
would: (a) provide a vocationally-oriented curriculum in deprived parts of the country;
(b) bring schools closer to potential students; (c) increase the enrollment rate of girls in
secondary technical schools; and (d) increase SSS enrollments by 18,000 in 1993
resulting in a 68 percent increase in the enrollment capacity of the three northern regions
(Upper West, Upper East and Northern Regions). The project would ensure that the new
schools did not become academic islands but real community schools serving the
communities' interests.
2.3   Choosing the Number of New Schools and their Sites. Early in 1990 a series of
meetings involving all headteachers of the existing 254 SSSs were held to determine the
number of JSS graduates they would be able to enroll in the first year of the new SSS
system. The enrollments in the old schools were to be deternined in terms of: (a)
boarding students based on the regional and national selection process; and (b) day
students from the JSSs in the local catchment area. Taking into account the existing
5,136 JSSs, the Ministry of Education (MOE) was able to identify those districts or sub-
districts where new SSSs were needed to ensure that places were available for 30 percent



3
of JSS 3 students in SSS 1. On the basis of this rudimentary school mapping exercise, it
was decided that the new SSSs would be utilized to reduce existing regional disparities.
In consultation with district assemblies and communities, 140 sites were selected for the
new SSSs. In about 100 of these, well-endowed JSSs would be converted to SSSs with
some additional facilities, and for the remainder, entirely new schools would be needed.
In both cases, commitments were obtained from the district assemblies and the local
communities to assist with cash, materials, and labor in the construction and furnishing of
the facilities needed. In addition, 97 communities agreed to assist in housing their
teachers. Each of the selected sites was visited by high level and technical staff of MOE.
In January 1991 when the schools opened, additional information was obtained from the
regional MOE staff on the numbers of students, staff, and physical facilities actually in
place.
2.4   Classrooms, Workshops, and Offices. A space utilization factor of 85 percent was
used to calculate the teaching space requirements for classrooms, laboratories, and
workshops for the new schools. Each standard multi-purpose block was designed for one
workshop or laboratory, or one staffroom and office, or one library and bookstore, or for
two classrooms such that whenever an odd number of classrooms were required, an
additional classroom was added. A total of 575 additional teaching spaces were needed.
Each school would have a library and a bookstore for textbooks that would be loaned to
students for a user fee. A staffroom, where teachers could sit to mark papers and hold
meetings would also be included. In the new rural schools there was often no other
meeting place in the vicinity. Finally, each school would also have a small office facility
which included a general office, the headteacher's office, and a store.
2.5   Staff Houses and the Electrical Supply Problem. It was considered crucial for
some teachers to live on-site so that the library could be kept open to students and the
community after hours, in order for extracurricular activities to take place in the
compound, and generally for the security of the school buildings and equipment. Two
staff houses, each with two bedrooms designed to accommodate two bachelor teachers or
national servicemen, were to be constructed on each school compound. Since most
schools were not connected to the national electricity grid, generators would be procured
for the schools with EdSAC II funds and the schools provided with generator shelters
using the same construction process as the classroom construction. MOE drilling rigs
would be used to drill boreholes at school sites where water supply was a problem.
2.6   Library Books. The project would also finance the procurement of at least 1,000
books for the library at each school. These books would include literature books,
textbooks, reference materials, and encyclopedias in two or three multiple copies. In
addition, educational charts would be procured and posted in the classrooms.
2.7   Transportation. Once the school had provided hygienic toilets for staff and
students from its own resources, it would be rewarded with a single-cabin pick-up truck.
These vehicles would be used in: transporting textbooks and equipment from regional
stores to the schools; transporting school sports teams; collecting monthly salaries; and



4
transporting farm produce from the school farm. This form of transportation was
essential given the remote location of the schools. Almost all the existing secondary
schools had a mummy wagon, bus, or truck donated by benefactors, charitable trusts, or
in some cases purchased by the Government.
C.   Credit Covenants and Special Agreements.
2.8   During Credit negotiations, the following agreements were reached, namely, that
the Borrower (Republic of Ghana) would:  (a) enter into Building Construction
Agreements with communities concerned which shall have been approved by the
Association; (b) pursuant to the Building Construction Agreements, obtain rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association; (c) through the
PMU, prepare quarterly progress reports of project execution and submit such reports to
the Association;  (d) maintain records and keep accounts adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures of the project; (e) furnish to the Association not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, a certified report of the Special
Account prepared by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association.
2.9   Category (1) of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement was amended
on September 13, 1993 to increase IDA funding for building construction from 67 percent
to 90 percent and the Credit was extended three times, due to delays in construction.
There were no specific conditions for Credit effectiveness and these credit covenants and
special agreements were complied with during project implementation.
D.   Evaluation of Objectives.
2.10  The main objectives of the project were to increase access to SSS, particularly to
students from underserved areas, and to involve districts and communities in the
development and operation on the new schools. These objectives were consistent with
the priorities of the Education Reform Programme, remained relevant to the most
pressing needs of the SSS system, and were reconfirmed during the informal mid-term
review in August 1993. To this end, the project would provide new schools in about 140
communities, to enable JSS graduates in remote parts of the country to enter SSS in their
localities. The new schools would increase enrollments for both boys and girls but
particularly for students in the northern sector of the country. In addition to furnishing
essential facilities, the project would reward schools with a vehicle for using their own
resources to provide hygienic toilet facilities for the use of staff and students. To
accommodate the new students, the facilities were to be quickly constructed by the local
communities with the support of the Government following the PAMSCAD approach
which had been previously successful and produced many CIPs. By involving the local
communities in school construction, it was envisaged that they would have access to the
library books and share the facilities to which they had contributed.
2.11  Buildings. This was the largest component of the project and was expected to be
quick-disbursing. The contracts negotiated with the local communities were small



5
enough to be completed in about four months so that inflation was never factored in.
Unfortunately, this component was responsible for delays in project implementation. The
project launch workshop took place in August 1991, which inadvertently coincided with
the peak of the harvest season and its problems (high labor demands; tarrying cocoa
payments; school re-opening and its financial demands on families; etc.). The district
assemblies were also at that point in the financial year when their own resources were
depleted and, as a result, they could make little contribution to the project. Hence, the
attraction for them to hijack the project whose funds were more than their annual budgets.
Delays in appointing the technical auditors further delayed project implementation, and as
payments to communities were delayed, construction fell behind and inflation affected
the fixed price contracts that had been signed between the local communities and MOE.
As a result, the project was unable to take off with the kind of momentum that had been
expected. However, construction work did eventually speed-up, and the third extension
of the project allowed the slower contractors and the conflict ridden area of the Northern
Region sufficient time to complete school construction.
2.12 Library books. This component of the project has not been as successful as was
anticipated. Although all schools did receive the 1,000 books, in some schools the books
were not displayed in the library for lack of furniture. At the time of the preparation of
this report, some students did not have access to the library books. The Government will
utilize counterparts funds reserved for project completion to provide the missing
furniture. It was also envisaged that members of the community would have access to the
books. Unfortunately, this has not been the case, due to factors identified in paragraph
2.16 below.
2.13  Vehicles. The project procured simple pick-up trucks for schools as a reward for
their constructing locally designed toilets (called the Kumasi Ventilated Improved Pit
Latrine or KVIPs) for the use of staff and students. The vehicles are being used by the
schools in a wide variety of activities and have tremendously improved transportation,
notably for schools in remote areas.
E.   Achievement of Objectives.
2.14  The objective to increase access to SSSs in deprived areas has been substantially
achieved. The project succeeded in providing new school buildings and helped increase
SSS enrollments by 30,712 in 1992, including an increase of 7,820 (25.5 percent) girls
compared to the original SAR target of 18,000 intakes by 1993. By 1994, enrollments in
project schools had attained 46,569 and about 12,306 (37.2 percent) for girls. The total
student intake in 1995 is 45,279, of which 12,149 are girls. The project provided multi-
purpose units including classrooms and workshops or laboratories (621 compared to 581
in the DCA); libraries and bookstores (151 compared to 132); staftrooms and offices
(152 compared to 132); staff houses (370 compared to 286); and generator shelters (102
compared to 90). In total, 16.7 percent more square meters were added to the originally
estimated quantities and the buildings cost 70 percent of other Bank-supported projects.
All project schools constructed toilets for their staff and students, and received vehicles as



6
a reward. All communities contributed labor in varying degrees, but the project was less
successful in accomplishing the objective of involving communities and district
assemblies in the management, maintenance and utilization of the facilities to which they
had contributed.
2.15  Community Participation.  There was an assumption at the onset of the project
that CIP would function as in the past. All communities contributed their labor toward
construction, but community contribution was below the 30 percent estimated at
appraisal. Further, delays in community construction led eventually to private contractors
being called in to take over the entire construction component of the project.
2.16 While all schools now have the 1,000 books mentioned in the SAR, some schools
did have furniture (bookshelves, tables and chairs) in their libraries and the books were
still packed in cartons. There are few trained personnel to oper- the libraries. By
involving the local communities in school construction, it was envisaged that they would
have access to the library books and share the facilities they had contributed in providing.
However, apart from financial contribution to PTAs, most parents shy away from
participation in school activities.
III.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability.
3.1   The project succeeded in providing new school buildings and helped to expand
access to SSS (see Table 8). All communities contributed their labor to the projects to
varying degrees, but the project was less success in accomplishing the objective of
involving the communities and district assemblies in the management, maintenance, and
utilization of the facilities. The extent to which the communities were expected to be
involved in the schools was initially ambitious.  Most communities and district
assemblies did not clearly understand thei respective roles and as a result, delays in
community construction eventually led to private contractors being engaged to take over
the entire construction component of the project. The school management committees
established in 1989 to suppL,,A community initiatives, have been more effective in some
communities than others. Today, district assemblies have responsibility for school
management, but the role of the community remains less clear.
B.   Summary of Costs.
3.2   The project was estimated to cost US$19.6 million with the Government
contributing US$4.9 million, comprised mainly of community and district assembly
contributions in cash, materials or labor, and an IDA financing of US$14.7 million (see
Table 5B). Total disbursements at project closure of US$15.18 million were higher than
the appraisal estimate due to changes in the US dollar/SDR exchange rate. The Credit
was reallocated on September 13, 1993 to cover the increased cost of construction,



7
technical auditors, and vehicles. A detailed breakdown of the cost of project components
in SDRs is provided in Table 5A.
C.   Financing Arrangements.
3.3   The project was financed according to the CIP approach. The Bank increased its
contribution from 66 percent to 90 percent during an informal review of the project in
August 1993, when it became clear that local communities were unable to contribute their
share of 30 percent in cash or kind. The 90 percent was expected to cover about 80
percent of increased costs of building materials due to inflation. Toward the end of the
project, the Government readily set aside counterpart funds for the completion of
buildings for which advances had been paid and which, for one reason or another, were
not completed. It is rather ironic that in the Upper West and Upper East Regions
(normally considered to be deprived areas), the local communities were more eager to
contribute their share than in more metropolitan and endowed areas.
D.   Implementation Schedule.
3.4  In December 1989, at the post-appraisal stage of EdSAC II, the Governnent
identified the need for additional SSS facilities to cater to the increase in JSS enrollments
as a result of the Education Reform Programme, and requested help from the Bank in
obtaining assistance from potential co-financiers in November 1990. Early in 1991, when
it became evident that no co-financing was forthcoming, the Government requested Bank
assistance. Together, the Government and the Bank prepared and appraised the project in
April 1991. The project went to the Board on June 25, 1991 and became effective August
7, 1991. About four months from Preparation to Board was a record for the Bank, and
this was only possible because the Task Manager was present in the field and worked
closely with Government officials (see Tables 3 and 7) during this phase. Originally due
to close on June 30, 1993, the Credit closed on June 30, 1995 after three extensions
totaling twenty-one months, due to delays imposed by the involvement of local
communities in project implementation. The last disbursements were made on August
31, 1995 when the balance of SDR 446,223 was canceled.
3.5   Project implementation during the early years was slow for several reasons.
Firstly, the project was designed as a CIP with required facilities varying from school to
school. In spite of the wide degree of differentiation provided for in the SAR, the
Government tried to standardize the early phase of construction so some communities
were asked to contribute toward buildings they did not want while others were supporting
fewer buildings than they needed. Secondly, the project was launched with a series of
workshops throughout the country during August and September 1991, the period
coinciding with the harvest season and its high labor demands. Thirdly, it was also at a
time when district assemblies had spent most of their annual budgets and could not help
communities with funds to start the buildings according to the CIP tradition. Fourthly, by
insisting that all project funds pass through their accounts, district assemblies delayed
construction due to their very weak accounting practices. Finally, community enthusiasm



8
waned during the time it took for the technical auditors to certify that they had completed
a particular phase of work and the time they received payment.
E.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives.
3.6   PAMSCAD, which was already in operation before the CSSCP was developed,
succeeded in reaching out and involving local communities throughout the 110 district
assemblies in the 10 regions of Ghana, and as a result, provided a favorable environment
for launching the community participation initiatives of the CSSCP.   During
implementation, however, the factors identified in paragraph 3.5 above, weakened these
initiatives. Further, not all communities involved in the CSSCP were equally endowed
in terms of leadership and material resources.  Others lacked water supply, adequate
roads to transport building materials and equipment, and communication facilities (such
as a telephone). These inequities led to inequality in the rate of construction among the
different sites.
F.    Bank Performance.
3.7   The Bank interacted efficiently with the client and responded in a timely manner.
The Task Manager outposted to the field was available for direct consultation throughout
the entire reform process and for most of the life of this project. This role was critical,
particularly for the procurement process in school construction. For example, the Task
Manager established a system of expediting the process of screening and approving all
withdrawal applications, which included the verification of the level of construction work
as ascertained by the technical auditors for all schools, before they were sent to the Bank
for replenishment of the Special Account.
G.   Borrower Performance.
3.8   The Government demonstrated its strong commitment to the Education Reform
Programme by maintaining the same experienced and competent staff in the PMU
throughout the life of the project. When it became clear that some sites would not be
completed before the project finally closed on June 30, 1995, the Government made
timely arrangements for counterpart funds to be set aside for this purpose.
H.   Assessment of Project's Outcome.
3.9   The CSSCP expanded access to secondary schools for students in underserved
parts of Ghana by furnishing school facilities at a lower cost per unit than similar Bank-
supported projects, provided more facilities, and enrolled more students than estimated at
appraisal, contributing significantly to the absorptive capacity of the sector. In this
respect, the project is classified as satisfactory. The community participation objective



9
was partially successful since communities did contribute to school construction but have
not taken responsibility for school management.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.   Important Findings from Project Implementation Experience.
4.1   The procurement for civil works handled directly by the district assemblies,
providing support to local communities in their construction activities, with each phase of
work certified by independent technical auditors, proved to be effective. The unit costs
of construction were around 30 percent lower than construction of similar quality
procured under other Bank-supported projects. The modular approach whereby most of
the facilities constructed at the schools were fitted into a standard module of 1,000 sq. ft.
simplified construction sufficiently for communities and small-scale local contractors to
manage. Simplicity of design, and the location of the task manager in the field helped
ensure rapid initial processing, and implementation over four years, less than half the
regional average for PHR projects.
4.2   Pressures for rapid appraisal of the project in order to meet Bank lending targets
and access additional resources meant that the complexities of mobilizing community
support were not fully appraised. Implementation experience showed that the key factor
in the mobilization of community participation was local level leadership, but during the
initial field survey no attempt was made to ascertain whether such leadership existed or
not. The project assumed that there was a commonality of interests between the newly
established but cash-strapped districts and the communities surrounding the schools. In
fact, the district assemblies wanted to control this financially significant activity, and
often wanted to delay passing on eligible funds to communities or contractors. The
district assemblies which had only just been established did not have the capacity to
manage construction activities or project accounts.
4.3   When community participation is to be relied upon it is very important that
enthusiasm, once created, is maintained.  If, through delays in payment or other
problems, initial enthusiasm is lost, it is very difficult to resuscitate. Therefore, it is
important to launch a community construction project only when all systems are fully in
place so there will be no delays. Even without delays, it is uncertain that community
construction activities will not be interrupted. Consequently, in countries with significant
inflation rates, some automatic allowance for inflation should be built into construction
projects.
4.4   The land tenure situation on some of the new sites on which construction was to
take place should have been clarified before the agreements were signed with the local
communities. The final six-month extension of the project was largely due to problems
on sites where there were conflicts between the schools and the landlords.



10
4.5   Finally, it should be emphasized that the efficiency in the development and
appraisal of this project demonstrates the advantages of a strong field presence in the
processing and implementing of projects. This should have significant impact on the
eventual location of responsibility for the vast proportion of simple PHR projects.
B.    Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Ghana.
4.6   The Community Secondary Schools Construction Project was the first of a series
of investment operations (following two sector adjustment operations) designed to
support infrastructural developments in various parts of the education sector in Ghana.
The projects that followed were: (a) Literacy and Functional Skills Project (Cr. 2349-
GH); (b) Tertiary Education Project (Cr. 2428-GH); (c) Primary School Development
Project (Cr. 2508); and (d) the Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support Project
(Cr. 2695-GH). A Basic Education Sector Investment Project (GH-PA-975) is under
preparation, and should be appraised early in 1996.
4.7   The CSSCP has provided a number of key lessons for future projects within the
education sector:  (a) the advantages of field presence for project preparation and
supervision; (b) the efficiency of using technical auditors in monitoring the progress of
construction prior to payment; (c) the need to spend a great deal of time and effort in
preparing community participation activities; (d) the necessity to properly time project
launch in order to ensure maximum community participation and the necessity to
continuously maintain this motivation; (e) the need to pay communities and local
contractors directly and not to pass through an intermediary such as a local government
authority; (f) the advantage of using a modular, standardized approach for civil works;
and (g) the difficulty that the Ministry of Education has in effectively communicating and
controlling activities at the district and community levels.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Not
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial    Partial  Negligible     applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                     X
Sector policies                  X
Financial objectives                                       X
Institutional development        X
Physical objectives              X
Povertv reduction                             X
Gender concerns                               X
Other social objectives                       X
Environmental objectives                                                  X
Public sector management                                                  X
Private sector development                                                X
B. Project sustainability      Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank perfonnance          satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                   X
Preparation assistance           X
Appraisal                        X
Supervision                                  X
Highly
D. Borrower performance      satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                      X
Implementation                               X
Covenant compliance              X
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactolr
x



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose                   Year of                 Status
Approval
1. Cr. 1744-GH         To support education system reform      1987        Closed December 31, 1991
Education Sector
Adjustment Credit                                                                                       l
2. Cr. 2140-GH         To support education system reform      1990        Closed December 31, 1994
Second Education
Sector Adjustment
Credit
3. Cr. 2349-GH         To support Government's                 1992        Ongoing
Literacy and Functional  mass literacy program
Skills
4. Cr. 2428-GH         To support extending reform in           1993       Ongoing
Tertiary Education     tertiary education
Project                                                                                                 l
5. Cr. 2508-GH         To assist increasing learning            1993       Ongoing
Primary School         achievement and enrollments
Development Project
6. Cr.2695-GH          To improve informal sector               1995       Ongoing
Vocational Skills and  productivity and reorient the
Informal Sector Support  vocational training to a demand-
Project                driven system
7. Basic Education     To provide support to improve            1996       Under preparation
Sector Investment      learning outcomes, increase access,
Project                and strengthen management
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned                      Actual date
Identification                        Not available                 December 1989
Preparation                           Not available                 March 1991
Appraisal                             Not available                 May 10, 1991
Negotiations                          Not available                 May 21, 1991
Board presentation                    Not available                 June 25, 1991
Signing                               Not available                 July 8, 1991
Effectiveness                         Not available                 August 7, 1991
Project completion                    December 31, 1992             December 31, 1994
Credit Closing                        June 30, 1993                 June 30, 1995



14
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ M)
FY1992        FY1993         FY1994       FY1995
Appraisal estimates                10.00         14.70
Actual                             5.41           9.72          12.98        15.18
[Actual as % of estimate           54%            66%            88%          103%
Date of final disbursement: August 24, 1995
TABLE 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS (IN SDR EQUIVALENT)
Items                         -       Estimated Cost                Actual Cost
1. Building Construction                8,190,000                   9,187,493
2. Teaching Materials                    690,000                     517,006
3. Vehicles                              860,000                    1,231,582
4. Consultants' Services                 220,000                     343,436
5. Unallocated                           1,140,000                      0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      11,100,000         1        10,349,517
B. PROJECT FINANCING ESTIMATES (US$ THOUSANDS)
Source                               Local     J      Foreign            Total
Community/District Assembly          3,449             1,479             4,928
Contribution
IDA                                  8,494             6,203             14,696
TOTAL                               11,943             7,682             19,624



TABLE 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section   Covenant Status  Original   Revised                                      Description of covenant                                     Comments
class                fulfillment fulfillment
date            date
2.02 (b)            I           C                                     Borrower to open and maintain a special deposit account in a  The account of US$4.0 million was opened in a
I__ _ _ _   J_commercial banik.                                            commercial bank on September 1991.
2.03               10                         06/30/93       06/30/95 Closing Date shall be 6/30/1993, or later date as IDA shall  The project closing date was extended from
establish.                                                 12/31/94 to 6/30/95.
3.03                9                                                 The Borrower, through the PMU, shall prepare quarterly progress  None
of project execution, such reports to be submitted to IDA.
3.04(a)            10           C                                     The Borrower shall enter into the Building Construction    None
Agreements with communities concemed which shall have been
approved by IDA and which shall specify the fixed unit costs per
building as set forth in this agreement.
3.04(b)            10           C                                     Pursuant to the Building Construction Agreements, the Borrower  None
shall obtain the rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and IDA, including the right to:
4          CP                                                                                                Stages of completion varies throughout the
(i) require the community concemed to carryout the school  schools targeted under the project.              v
construction with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial, and educational standards
following the design specifications developed for this project;
4          CP                                                                                                DCA has been amended to increase IDA
(ii) require the community to make a contribution to the school  financing in Category I (Building Construction)
construction costs of at least 33 pereent of the estimated costs  from 67 percent to 90 percent require from time
either in the form of labor services, building materials or in terms  to time.
9           C                                     of cash contributions;
None
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of IDA, if IDA
9           C                                     shall so request, the school construction works carried out by the
community; and
None
(iv) require the community to furnish the Borrower all such
informalion as the Borrower or IDA shall require from time to
________                       t~~ ~~~~~~~~~im e.                                         __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4.01 (a) (i)        I           C                                     The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to  None
.reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the project.



Section   Covenant Status  Original   Revised                                    Description of covenant                                    Comments
class                fulfillment fulfillment
date           date
4.01 (b)            s                  ul(i) The Borrower shall have the records and accounts including   None
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year auditcd by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
I          C                                    (ii) The Borrower shall fumish to IDA, as soon as available, but   None
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report;
4.01 (c) (iv)       I          C                                     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the   None
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
Expenditures, the Borrower shall ensure that records and accounts
are included in the annual report which should contain scparate
opinion by said auditors.
I = Accotiats/atidits                  7 = lnvoluntary Resetlleaineiit                                    C = Complied with
2 = Financial Perltrnnance/revenue     8 = indigenous people                                              CD = Compliance after delay
generation from beneficiaries       9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting                             NC = Not complied with
3 = Flow and utilization ot'project funds   10 = Implementation                                           SOON = Compliance expected                                    '
4 = Counterpart funding                 II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation    in reasonably short time
5 = Management aspects of the          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action    CP = Complied with partially
project or executing agency         13 = Other                                                        NYD = Not yet due
6 = Environmental covenants



17
TABLE 7: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project    Actual
cycle              Staff
Weeks
Preparation to     2.1
appraisal
Appraisal           0
Negotiations        1.4
through
Board approval
Supervision        34.6
TOTAL              3.



18
TABLE 8: PROJECT OUTPUT INDICATORS
Growth in Secondary School Enrollments in Ghana
YEAR            TOTAL              GIRLS'            BOYS'            DIFFERENCE
ENROLLMENTS  ENROLLMENTS   ENROLLMENTS                      Boys/Girls
1990           199,260            65,679            133,581              67,902
1991           225,277            74,537            150,740              76,203
1992           247,496            82,873            164,623              81,750
1993           236,527            81,569            154,958              73,389
1994*           236,722            81,906            154,816             72,910
1995*           266,995            93,448            173,547             80,099
*Note: Infornation for this year is a projection
Enrollments in Project Schools
YEAR              TOTAL              GIRLS'              BOYS'           DIFFERENCE
ENROLLMENTS   ENROLLMENTS   ENROLLMENTS                     Boys/Girls
1991              12,526             4,058               8,468              4,410
1992              30,712             7,820              22,892              15,072
1993              43,299             11,053             32,246             21,193
1994*             46,569              12,306             34,263             21,957
1995*             45,279              12,149             33,130             20,981
*Note: Information for this year is a projection
SSS Students Performance in West African Examinations Council (WEAC) Examinations
EXAM YEAR                   TOTAL REGISTERED              TOTAL LISTED for UEE*
1993                          42,105                           1,354
1994             r            77,873                           2,483
*UEE: University Entrance Examination
Physical Facilities
|_________   _____ TARGET                           ACTUAL
SOUTHERN   NORTHERN   OVER-   SOUTHERN    NORTHERN    OVER-
SECTOR       SECTOR       ALL       SECTOR         SECTOR         ALL
Classrooms             410           90        500         432            128          560
Workshop               49            19         68          32             6           38
Library&               101          31         132         110            41           151
Bookstore        I             I            I        I               I            I
Staffroom&Offices      101           3 1       132         110            42           152
Staff Houses           222           64        286         250            120          370
Generator Shelter      64            26         90          66             36          102
Vehicles and Teaching Materials
ITEM                          TARGET                          ACTUAL
Vehicles                      i              143                             156
Teaching materials                         163,020                         193,997            |



19
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performace Rating
Number    Duration of      Specialized         Implemen-      Develop-
Stage of         MontlV         of        Mission        Staff Skills         lation         mient        Types of
Project Cyde        Year       Persons    (# of days)     Represented           Stas         Objectives     Problems
Tlhugh Appraisal
ldenbficaio          12/89
e-appaisal          3/91        2                          EP, OA
Appraisal            5/91       2                          EP, OA
Appraisal through
Board Approval
6/91       2                          EP, OA
Board Approval
dthough Effectiveness    891       2                         EP, OA
Supervision
12/91      2           5              EP, OA                    I             I        Project slow to take
off: a) commn mibes
7/92       2           8              EP, OA                    2             2         lacked start up
9/93       4           9              EP, OA, PO                2             2         foeds and dte CaP
9/94       4            12            EP, PO, ED                S             S         b) the disrMi
Mednbisuaon
12194      3           12             EP, PO, ED                S             S        bumiwrcy
krtetmrd in project
5/95       4           10            IS, ED, ED, PS             S             S         implementation
Completion
Kev to specialized staff skills
ED       Educafion Specialist
EP       Principal Education Planner
IS       Sr. Implementation SpecialisL
OA       Operations Analyst
00       Sr. Operations Officer
PO       Project Officer
PS       Procurement Specialist



20
TABLE 10: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FINANCED BY PROJECT
Specialist Services    Planned at      Actual Duration      Comments
Appraisal
G. Ampofo and                                             They were effective
Partners - Technical     15 months         39 months      in ensuring that the
Auditors                                                  structures were
well constructed.
TABLE 11: TRAINING OF PERSONNEL FINANCED BY PROJECT
Type of Training      Duration      No. of Persons       Comments
Trained
Community mobilization     6/16-19,                      Not very effective
for school construction      1991                        because most of the
1,058       District Secretaries
6/27-30,                      were transferred
1991                        shortly after the
orientation course.



21
APPENDIXES
A:   Missions' Aide-Memoire
B:   Borrower's Contribution to ICR
C:   Map






AIDE-MEMOIRE
Republic of Ghana
Community Secondary Schools Construction Proiect (Cr. 2278-GH)
April 19 - 28, 1995
Introduction
1.    From April 19-28, 1995 the World Bank carried out a supervision mission of the
Community Secondary Schools Construction Project (Cr. 2278-GH). The team members
included: Mrs. Irene Xenakis (Senior Implementation Specialist, Mission Leader); Ms. Margaret
Kilo (Education Specialist); Mr. Gregory Hancock (Senior Operations Officer) and Mr. Tsri
Apronti (Procurement Officer). The mission is grateful to the Honorable Minister of Education,
Mr. Harry Sawyerr; the Director General of the Project Management Unit (PMU) Mr. R. J.
Mettle-Nunoo and the Project Manager (PMU) Miss Araba Korsah, for the support and co-
operation provided the team during the supervision mission. The mission also expresses it
appreciation to members of the Community Secondary Schools Construction Project team within
the PMU for their diligent planning in preparing the project for closure.
Objectives of the Mission
2.    The main objectives of the mission were to review: (i) the progress of construction
particularly with regard to the problem sites visited during the November 1994 supervision
mnission's field visits to the Ashanti Region; and (ii) preparations for project closing on June 30,
1995 including discussions with the PMU of an outline for the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and related activities.
Mission Activities and Discussions
3.    The mission met with the Hon. Minister of Education, and various officials of the PMU
and the GES. The mission also visited secondary technical schools of the Community Secondary
Schools Construction Project (Cr. 2278-GH) in the Upper West Region (Wa and Nadowli
Districts), and Regional and District Officials in the Ashanti Region. The list of key officials met;
and schools, district and regional offices visited are attached (see Attachments I and II). Major
issues discussed and agreement reached on the Community Secondary Schools Construction
Project are summarized in separate sections below.



Summary of Status of Construction
4.    The project which was scheduled to close on December 31, 1994 had been extended for
the third and final time to June 30, 1995. This final six months extension provided the PMU and
building contractors with sufficient time to get the construction to an advanced level in preparation
for project closure, particularly as ethnic disputes in parts of the Northern Region had made it
impossible to carryout technical audits for some time. It also allowed some schools which had
completed both Phases I and II of the construction to obtain some badly needed additional
classrooms while project funds were still available. In order to speed up the rate of construction
particularly among the slower contractors, the revised closing date of June 30, 1995 had not been
disclosed to them, such that they continued to work towards the December 31, 1994 closing date.
This helped speed up the rate of construction although it will still be necessary for the government
to make additional financial in-put from matching funds to support some remaining minor work in
a number of schools.
5.    At the present time, technical audits carried out in the northem section of the country in
March 31, 1995 have revealed that all schools which had completed Phase I in Upper West
Region and all but one school in Upper East Region had now also completed Phase II of the
project (a total of 7 out of 8 schools). In the Northern Region which had been hampered by ethnic
disputes, out of 12 schools that had completed Phase I, five had completed Phase II while seven
were ongoing. The progress made since the decision was taken that: (i) the contribution of the
community be reduced from 30% to 10%; and (ii) project funds be paid directly to contractors'
accounts after technical audits had been made certifying the different phases of construction,
instead of to districts has indeed speeded up the rate of construction throughout the country.
Observations from Field Visits
6.    In preparation for the supervision mission, during a visit to Sege-Ada Secondary Technical
School in the Greater Accra Region by some of the members of the mission, it was revealed that
while the project has succeeded in providing many students with a senior secondary school
education, many qualified girls were still unable to attend senior secondary school due to two main
problems: (i) the fact that the schools lacked accommodation on campus; and (ii) that many girls
and their parents did not consider the technical education offered in the secondary technical
schools appropriate for females. There were 41 girls out of a total student population of 300. The
Headmaster, Mr. K. Atto-Asare informed the mission that the PTA was being sensitized to the
advantages of a technical education for girls by their career counselor. The school serves several
fishing and farming villages on the coast to the east of Accra and trekking distance to school is a
problem for students who cannot find accommodation in Sege-Ada village.
7.    During the supervision mission, field visits were conducted in the Wa District (Wa
Secondary Technical School in Wa town) and Nadowli District (Kaleo Secondary Technical
School ) in the Upper West Region and in Kumasi Metropolitan District (Armed Forces Secondary
Technical School and Kumasi Secondary Technical School at Patasi). In both Wa and Kaleo, the
schools had completed both the first and second phases of the project. The mission noted that
2



there were no major problems related to the construction component of the project in the Upper
West Region. The two schools in Kumasi had been visited during the November supervision
mission and this second visit provided the mission an opportunity to observe progress in
construction since then. At the Armed Forces Secondary Technical School site, the first phase of
construction had been completed and the Headmaster had moved into one of the staff bungalows.
Some considerable progress was noted at the Patasi site although extensive construction work is
still outstanding in the staff bungalows. This is particularly worrisome as the district staff in
Kumasi appeared to be ignorant about the impending project closing date and the fact that the last
technical audits for the region are scheduled for May 1995, only a couple of weeks away.
Preparation for Project Completion: June 30. 1995.
8.    Working closely with the technical auditors (G. Ampofo and Partners), the PMU has
prepared building contractors, district officials and financial auditors for project closing. The last
phase of technical audits have been scheduled for May and June in the northern and southern
sectors of the country respectively. As of March 31, 1995 costings have been prepared for the
remainder of the project, to be paid according to the technical auditors' certification of completion.
The budget for the remainder of the project is presented as follows:
a.    Phase I on-going projects             -     202, 746, 000.00 cedis
b.    Phase I completed but yet to be paid  -       83, 700, 000.00 cedis
c.    Phase HI on-going                     -      411, 930, 000.00 cedis
d.    Phase II completed but yet to be paid  -      44, 850, 000.00 cedis
e.    Consultancy (15, 800, 000.00 x 4 months)  -   63, 200, 000.00 cedis
f     Estimated bank charges                -        8, 064, 260.00 cedis
TOTAL              814, 490, 260.00 cedis
9.    The balance of the Special Account now stands at: 797, 366, 621.00 cedis (or $ 745,
202.45). Counterpart funds to be used in completing any remaining finishing work (wiring,
electric bulbs, aprons, painting, furniture, etc.) to buildings were estimated at: 389, 000, 000.00
cedis bringing the total balance in the special account to 1, 186, 366, 621.00 cedis
10.   From the above figures, it is evident that the Ministry of Education and the PMU have
made commendable progress in preparation for project closure come June 30, 1995. The financial
auditors have also started preparing the audits for 1994 which are due June 30, 1995. PMU
estimates that these will be ready on time since financial auditors are already collecting data from
the districts.
Agreement Reached during the Mission.
11.   During the mission it was recommended that as part of the ICR, a study of the impact of
the Community Secondary Schools on communities, should be undertaken. The study would
comprise interviews of those persons who played an important role in making the project possible
3



(district officials, community leaders and contractors) as well as interviews of some of those
considered as beneficiaries of the project (teachers and headteachers, parents and students). While
some districts were readily able to contribute the communities' share of 10% in cash or kind to the
project, other communities found it extremely difficult to make the necessary contribution.
Unequal resources of the beneficiary communities led to some construction projects being labeled
as "problem projects" and others as "good projects". This study would contribute important
"lessons learned" in terms of the disparity of capacity among local communities so that their ability
to contribute to such projects can be taken into consideration in future project design. It would
also be interesting to compare the 1994 and 1995 WEAC examination results of these different
communities. PMU has already started the process of identifying consultants for the qualitative
and quantitative studies. The mission recommends that the terms of reference be sent to IDA by
May 15, 1995, so that the studies may begin as soon as possible. The draft project ICR will be
discussed with the PMU during the next mission in September 1995.
4



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT 2278-GH
Ministry of Education,
P. 0. Box M.45,
Accra.                              October 1995






COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT (CR 2278 - GH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1.    BACKGROUND
In 1986, under the Economic Recovery Programme (ERP II), the Government
of Ghana initiated discussions on Education Reforms in both structure
and content. As a result a new Education Reform Programme was drawn up
to ensure the achievement of the overall national goals of
(i)   increasing access to education,
(ii)   improving the quality of education given,
(iii)   making  education  more  relevant  to the  socio-economic
development,
and
(iv)    ensuring that education is cost-effective and sustainable.
The 1st Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC I) supported the 1st
phase of the reform programme with emphasis on the nationwide
implementation of the Junior Secondary School Programme.   The 2nd
Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC II) negotiated in April 1990,
supported the Government with the continuation of the implementation of
the reform programme with the introduction of the new Senior Secondary
Schools.
At the time of appraisal of EdSAC II, it was calculated that there
would be a financing gap of US$59.9m of which US$50.Om would be met by
the Credit, leaving a gap of about US$10.Om for school construction-
related expenditures at about 140 new Senior Secondary Schools. It was
hoped that some co-financier could be interested in filling this gap,
but  none  was  immediately  identified.    In order  to achieve  the
objectives of providing access to higher levels of education to many
more people and to make education as equitable as possible within our
specific constraints, new Senior Secondary Schools were started in
educationally deprived areas.



-2-
By this it was possible to achieve a distribution of at least two (2)
Senior Secondary Schools to a district.
2.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The overall objectives of the Project were to ensure that
(i)   qualified Junior Secondary School Graduates from deprived
areas of the country have opportunities to enter effective
and relevant day Senior Secondary Schools in their
neighbourhood.
(ii)   essential physical facilities are constructed in about 140
new Senior Secondary Schools, and are ready to be used by
the beginning of the 1992 academic year in January 1992 and
January 1993.
(iii)   Local   Communities   and   District   Assemblies   take
responsibility for the development and running of the New
Secondary Schools and feel that the schools are their
schools.
(iv)   each New Senior Secondary  School starts to develop  a
library, which as well as serving the school, will become
a community library.
3.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.1   PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Under  the  Community  Secondary  Schools  Construction  Project,  the
Ministry has been able to help 160 Community Schools to construct the
following:
(i)   560 classrooms,
(ii)   38 workshops,
(iii)   151 library and bookstores,



- 3 -
(iv)   152 staffrooms and offices,
(v)   370 Staff houses,
(vi)   102 generator shelters,
Most of the schools received support under Credit 1744-GH to put up
three (3) workshops and therefore did not need to put up additional
ones.
Attachment 1 shows the total number of structures constructed as
compared with the number of structures targeted and Attachment 2 shows
the distribution of the structures by school.
3.2   VEHICLES AND TEACHING MATERIALS
One hundred and fifty-six (156) single cabin pick-up trucks have been
procured and distributed to community schools that were able to put up
decent places of convenience.
In addition, the project procured a total of 193,997 books made up of
313 titles for the school library in each project area.  These books
included reference materials, encyclopedias and wall charts.
3.3   TRAINING
Under the arrangement for the project, District Authorities and
Communities were to contribute one-third (%) of the total cost of the
structures.
Recognising the importance of key district personnel to the success of
the project, workshops in two batches were organised for the following:
(i)   PNDC District Secretaries,
(ii)   Presiding Members of District Assemblies,
(iii)   Regional Directors of Education,
(iv)   District Directors of Education,



- 4 -
(v)   Elected Assembly Members of the localities in which the
schools are situated,
(vi)   GNAT Regional Secretaries,
(vii)   NSS Regional Co-ordinators,
(viii)   District Organising Assistants of CDRs,
(ix)   Headmasters of  all newly  established Senior  Secondary
Schools,
(x)   Circuit Monitoring Assistants.
At both workshops, the role of the communities under the project was
explained to the participants and they were urged to cooperate with
each other to ensure the success of the project.
It is a fact that in Districts where the head of the District
Administration teamed up with the Director of Education and the
Presiding Member, they were able to finish the construction of
structures under Phase 1 and were offered additional structures under
Phase 2.
3.4   ENROLMENTS
Even though enrolments in secondary schools increased by only 13% in
1991, 10% in 1992 and actually reduced in 1993 as shown in Attachment
3, enrolments in the project schools increased steadily from 1991 to
1993 with  an  increase  of  145X  in  1992.    Unfortunately,  girls'
enrolments in project schools decreased between 1991 and 1993 as shown
below:
Total              X age        % age
Year        Enrolments          Girls       Boys
1991        12,526              32.4        67.6
1992        30,712              25.5        74.5
1993        43,299              25.5        74.5



- 5-
Academic achievement in project schools, however, has not been good as
can be seen in the table below:
1993                           1994
REGION          TOTAL      TOTAL LISTED        TOTAL       TOTAL LISTED
ENROLMENT       FOR UEE        ENROLMENT        FOR UEE
Ashanti             4,737            3             5,778            9
Brong Ahafo         3,809            1             4,064            4
Central             3,130            6             3,343            2
Eastern             6,832           17             7,486           23
Greater Accra       2,969            7             3,422           10
Northern            6,865            4             8,099           10
Upper East          1,793            3             2,370            5
Upper West          2,632            0             2,214            3
Volta               7,458           15             6,501           19
Western             3,074            3             3,292            8
Total              43,299           59            46,569           93
This is so because the community schools have problem attracting good
students as the best JSS graduates get admission into the existing/old
senior secondary schools.  And even those who get admission into the
community secondary schools leave after about a year. It is hoped that
with time the community schools will be able to retain their students
and even attract some of the best JSS graduates.
The Ghanaian public has been given the erroneous impression that the
overall performance of the new system is a failure based on candidates
inability to enter the Universities. The new system on the other hand
has increased access of Senior Secondary School graduates to different
levels of Tertiary Education.   These include access to the Diploma
Awarding Institutions, Teacher Training Colleges, as well as the
Universities. Though statistics is not immediately available, greater
access has been achieved for students through this programme.



-6-
4.    PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED
At the beginning of the project, payment of the 1st instalment of
Government contribution was made upon certification by the District
Inspection Team that the substructure had been completed. Some of the
reports received from the Districts were found to be false and this
resulted in payments being made for substructures that were non-
existent.
And some of the District Administrations used the money sent for
payment of contractors to pay salaries and their other commitments.
Consequently they were not able to pay the contractors who refused to
continue to work and left the sites.   This left in its wake about
twenty-three (23) uncompleted structures even though these structures
were started in 1991/1992.
These problems came up during a supervision mission in August 1993 and
it was agreed that:
(i)   payment be made  against certification by the Technical
Auditors and not against certification by the District
Inspection Team.
(ii) payment for structures under Phase 2 be made directly into
the contractor's account.
The contractors were happy with this new arrangement and they worked
well. All the structures given under Phase 2 were completed and paid
for.



-7-
5.    CONCLUSION
Despite problems encountered, the Ministry has been able to help the
Districts to put up urgently needed structures for the community
schools.  This has resulted in the provision of access to secondary
education for students who would otherwise have had to terminate their
education after leaving the Junior Secondary School.



ABBREVIATIONS
CDR  ..                 Committee for the Defence of the Revolution
GNAT  ..                Ghana National Association of Teachers
NSS  ..                 National Service Secretariat
PNDC  ..                Provisional National Defence Council
UEE  ..                 University Entrance Examination



COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TEACHING SPACES AND OTHER PHYSICAL FACILITIES
NO. OF REQD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACILITIES
SPACES AND FACILITIES       PROVIDED
TOTAL                           TOTAL
NO.OF                           NO. OF  SCHS
STRUC-                          STRUC- GIVEN
REGION              DISTRICT         NO.             SCHOOL             MS1 WS MS2 MS3 TURES    MS1 WE MS2 MS3 SB TURES  GS
A. BRONG       Tano                        1  Duayaw Nkwanta Sec. Tech.               1   1       2       4   -   1   1   2       6       1
AHAFO      Berekuam                     2  JInijini Secondary             6       1   1       5       6   -   1   1   2       7       1
Jaaman                      3  Goka Sec. Tech.                4       1   1       4        4   -   1   1   2       6      1
Wenchi                      4  Badu Sec. Tech.                2       1   1       3        4   -   1   1   2      6
5  Koase Sec. Tech.              4        1   1       4       4   -   1    1   2      6
Techiman                    6  Asuogyaman Sec. Tech.          2       1   1       3        2   -   1   1   2      5       1
Kintampo                    7  Jema Secondary                 6   3   1   1       8        6  -   1   1   2       7       1
Nkoranza                    8  Busunyaa Secondary             2       1   1       3       4   -   1   1   2       6       1
Dormaa                      9  Mansen Community Day Sec.   2          1   1       3        2   -   1   1   2      5       1
Sene                       10  Kwame Danso Sec. Tech.         2       1   1       3       4   -   1   1   2       6       1
11Kajaii Secondary               4   3   1   1       7        4  -   1   1   2       6.      1
Asutifi                    12  Gyemii Kumain Sec.             2       1   1       2        4   -   1   1   2      6       1
Atebutu                    13  Prang Senior Sec.              -   -   -   -       -        2   3   1   1   2      6       -
Wenchi                     14  Nkoraman Sec. Sch.             -   -   -   -       -       4   3   -   -   2       7       -
Tano                       15  Yamfo Community                -   -   -   -       -        4   -   1   1   2      6       -
Tano                       16  Bomaa Secondary                -   -   -   -       -        4  -   1   1   2        6      -
Dormaa                     17  Wamanafo Community Day         -   -   -   -       -        2   -   1   1   2      5       -
_____         I Subtotal                I_  _3616112136 612  12                                  47   _ 64  6  1616  3    102            10
KEY
MS1 -Classroom                                                                                                                        n
WS  - Workshop                                                                                                                        0
MS2 - Library                                                                                                                        ID
MS3 - Staffroom & Offices
GS  -Generator Shelter
SB  -  Staff Bungalow



NO. OF REOD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACIUTIES
SPACES AND FACIUTIES        PROVIDED
TOTAL                           TOTAL
NO. OF                          NO. OF  SCHS
STRUC-                          STRUC- GIVEN
REGION              DISTRICT         NO.             SCHOOL             MS1 WE MS2 MS3 TURES    MS1 WS MS2 MS3 SB TURES  GS
[B. ASHANTI    Kumasi                       1  Kumasi Sec. Tech.              4   1   1   1       5        2  -   1   1   2        5
t                            2  Armed Forces Sec. Tech.        4       1   1       4        2   -   1   1   2      5
Atwima                      3  Nkawle Sec. Tech.              2       1   1       3       4   -   1   1   2        6
4   Mpasatia Sec. Tech.           4       1   1       4       4  -   1   1   4        8       1
Amansie East                5  Jacobu Sec. Tech.              4       1   1       4        4   -   1   1   2      6       1
Amansle West                6  Esaase Bontefufuo Sec. Tech.           1           1        2   -   1   1   2       5      1
7  Adubia Secondary              4        1   1       4       2  -   1   1   2        5       1
Afigye Sekyere              8  Agona Sec. Tech.               4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1   4       8
Kwabere                     9  Kofi Adjei Sec. Tech.          6       1   1       .5      6   -   1   1   2       7       1
Offinso                    10  Namang Sec. Tech.              2       1   1       3        2   -   1   1   4      7       1
Ejura Sekye Dumase         11  Ejuraman Secondary             4       1   1       4        6   -   1   1   2      7
12  Sekyedumase Secondary         4       1   1       4        6   -   1   1   4       9
Asante Akim North          13  Owerriman Secondary                                         2   -   1   1   2       5      1
Asante Akim South          14  Ofoase Sec. Tech.                                           4   -   1   1   2       6      1
Adansi West                15  Akrofuom Sec. Tech.            8       1   1       6        6   -   1   1   2       7      1
Adansi East                16  Bodwesango Secondary           4       1   1       4        4   -   1   1   2       6      1
Ahafo Ano North            17  Maban Sec. Tech.               6   1   1   1       6        -   2   1   1   2       6      1
Ahafo Ano South            18  Ahafo Ano South Sec. Tech.    10       1   1       7        4   -   1   1   2       6      1
Ejisu Juaben               19  Ejlisu Sec. Tech.              4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1   2       6
Ejisu Juaben               20  Bonwre Sec. Tech.                      1   1       2        4   -   1   1   2      6       1
Ejisu Juaben               21  Achinakrom Secondary           4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1   4       8       1
Bosomtwe Atwima Kwaman   22  Beposo Secondary                 2       1   1       3        4   -   1   1   2      6       1
Sekyere West               23  Sekyereman Senior Sec.         -   -   -   -       -        4   -   1   1   4      8       -
Sekyore East               24  Asokore T.I. Ahmadlyya         -   -   -   -       -        6   3   -   -   2      8       -
Subtotal                   24                                80  2  20  19        81      90  6  23  23 60    156         15



NO. OF REQOD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACIUTIES
SPACES AND FACIUTIES        PROVIDED
TOTAL                           TOTAL
NO. OF                          NO. OF  SCHS
STRUC-                          STRUC- 3IVEN
REGION              DISTRICT         NO.             SCHOOL             MS1 WS MS2 MS3 TURES    MSI WE MS2 MS3 SB TURES   GS
C. CENTRAL   Cape Coast                    1  Bakatsir Sec. Tech.            2        1   1       3       2   -   1   1   2       5
Edina/Komenda/Eguafo        2  Komenda Sec. Tech.             2       1   1       3       4   -   1   1   2       a
Mfantslplm                  3  Mankesslm Sec. Tech.           6   2   1   1       7       2   2   1   1   2       7
Abura/Asesu/Kwamankese    4  Abakrampa Sec. Tech.             4       1   1       4        4   -   1   1   2       6
Gomoa                       5  Gomoa Sec. Tech.               6       1   1       5        6   -   1   1   2      7       1
Awutu/Efutu/Senya           6  Senya Secondary                                             2   -   1   1   2       5
7  Obrakyere Sec. Tech.           2   3   1   1       6       2   -   1   1   2       5       1
Ajumako/Enyan/Esham         8  Denkylra Sec. Tech.            4       1   1       4        2   -   1   1   2       5
Asikuma/Odoben/Brakwa       9  Odoben Secondary               4       1   1       4        6   -   1   1   2      7
Agona Swedru               10  Kwanyako Secondary             4       1   1       4        4   -   1   1   2       6
Upper Denkyira             11  Kyoremfom Sec. Tech.           4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1   2       6
12  Diaso Secondary               4        1   1      4        4  -   1   1   2        6       1
TwHfo Hemang               13  Jukwa Secondary                6       1   1       5        8   -   1   1   2       7      1
Assin Fosu                 14  Assln North Sec. Tech.         4   3   1   1       7        2   -   1   1   2       5      1
15  Beseasi Secondary             _   _   _ -    -     -           -               -        1
Subtotal                   15                                52  8  13  13        60      50  2  14  14  28    83         6
D. GREATER   Accra (Metro)                 1  Klnbu Sec. Tech.               16  2   1   1       12       2       1   1   2       5
ACCRA       Tema                         2  Ashalman Secondary             4       1   1       4       2        1   1   2      5
3  Manhean Sec. Tech.                 1   1   1       3       4        1   1   2      6
Dangme East                 4  Sege Ada Sec. Tech.            2   3   1   1       6        2       1   1   2      5
Dangme West                 5  Asutsuare Sec. tech.               1        1      2       2        1   1   2      5
Ga                          6  Torkuse Socondary              6       1   1       5       6        1   1   2      7       1
7  Amasaman Sec. Tech.            2   1   1   1       4       6        1   1   2      7       1
8 Tema Methodist Sec.             -   -   -   -       -       2   3   -  -    2       6       -
Subtotal                    8                                30  8  6    7        36      28  3   7   7 1         46      2



NO. OF REQD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACILITIES
SPACES AND FACIUTIES       PROVIDED
TOTAL                          TOTAL
NO. OF                         NO. OF  SCHS
STRUC-                         STRUC- GIVEN
REGION   |         DISTRICT         NO.             SCHOOL            MS1 WE MS2 MS3 TURES    MS1 WE MS2 MS3 SB TURES  GS
,E. EASTERN     New Juaben                 1  Koforidua Ada Sec.            2   3   1   1       6       4  -   1   1  2        6
Suhum Kraboa Coaltar       2  Suhum Presbyterian Sec.               1   1       2       2   -   1   1  2       5
jAkwapim south              3  Nsawam Secondary                                          2   -   1   1  2       5
4  Aburi Sec. Tech.                  2   1   1       4       2   1   1   1  2       6
Akwaim North               5  Adukrom Sec. Tech.                2   1   1       4       4   -   1   1  2        6
West Akim                  6  Asamankese Sec. Tech.         4   1   1   1       5       4   -   1   1  2        6
Birim South                7  Achiase Secondary             2        1   1      3       2   -   1   1  2        5      1
8  Adeiso Secondary                  1   1   1       3       6  -   1   1  2        7       1
9  Oda Attefuah Sec. Tech.               1   1      '2       4   -   1   1  2       6
Birim Norh                 10  New Abriem Sec.              6   1   1   1       6       6   -   1   1  2        7      1
'Asuogyaman                11  Apeguso Community Sec.                1   1       2       4   -   1   1  2       6       1
i Kwahu North              12  Tease Secondary                       1   1       2       6   -   1   1  2       7       1
Kwahu South                13  St. Paul's Sec.              16  2   1   1       12      6   -   1   1  2        7
14  Pepease Sec. Tech.                                       4   -   1   1  2       6
Kwaabibirem                15  Akim Wenchi Sec.                                         4       1   -   2       5      1
EastAkim                  16  Kibi Sec. Tech.               8       1   1       6       2  -   1   1   2       5       1
Yilo Krobo                 17  Klo-Agogo Sec.               4       1   1       4       2   -   1   1  2        5      1
Manya Krobo                18  Akuse Secondary                           1      1       4   -   1   1  2        6
iManya Krobo               19  Akro Sec. Tech.               4   1   1   1       5       4   -   1   1  2       6
Asuogyaman                 20  Boso Sec. Tech.              -   -   -   -       -       -_   _                         1
Manya Krobo                21  Asesewa Secondary            _   _   _   _       _                   _                 1
'Fanteakwa               ! 22  Osino Secondary               _   _   _   _       __                                    1
Akwapim North              23  Mampong Secondary            -   -   -   _       _       2   3  -   -   2        6   |
Akwapim North              24  Mangoase Secondary           _   _   _   _       _       2   3  -   -   2        6   |
Birim South               25  Akroso Secondary              -   -   -   _       _       2   3   -   -   2      6       _
Birim North                26  Ayirebi Secondary            -   _   _   _       _       4   3  -   -   2       7   |
East Akim                 27  Akyem Asafo Secondary         -   -   -   _       _       2  3   -   1  2         7   |
|_____ | Subtotal                         27                               46  13  15  16    67        84  16  19  19 48    144    11



NO. OF REOD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACIUTIES
SPACES AND FACIUTIES    PROVIDED
TOTAL                         TOAL
NO. OF                        NO. OF  SCHS
STRUC-                        STRUC- GIVEN
REGION             DISTRICT         NO.            SCHOOL            MS1 WE MS MS3 TURES    MSI WE MS  MS3 SB TURES  GS
F. VOLTA      Ho                          1  Tsto Sec. Tech.              6       1   1       5       4   -   1   1  2       6
2  Akome Sec. Tech.                                         4   -   1   1  2       6
3  Tanylgbe Secondary           4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1  4       8      1
Kete Krachi               4  Kete-Krachl Sec. Tech.        4   1  1   1        5       4   -   1   1  2       6      1
5  Banka Sec. Tech.             2       1   1       3       4  -  1    1  2        6      1
6  Asukawkaw Secondary                  1           1       4   -   1   1  2       6      1
Nkwanta                    7  Brewaniase Secondary         6       1   1       5       6   -   1   1  2       7      1
Akatsi                     8  Akatsi Sec. Tech.            14  1  1   1       10       4   -   1   1  2       6
9  Ave-DakpaSec.                6       1   1       5       4  -  1    1  2        6      1
Keta                      10  Atlavl Sec. Tech.            6       1   1       5       4  -   1   1  2        6      1
Kpandu                    11  Vakpo Sec. Tech.             6   1  1   1        6       4   -   1   1  2       6
12  Peki Sec. Tech.              6  11       1      6       2  -   1   1  2        5
Ketu                      13  Three Town Sec.              6       1   1       5       4  -   1   1  2        6
North Tongu               14  Aveylme Battor Sec. Tech.            1   1       2       8   -   1   1  2       8      1
South Tongu               15  Dabala Sec. Tech.            8   3   1   1       9       2   -   1   1  2       5      1
Hohoe                     16  Akpafu Sec. Tech.            2       1   1       3       4  -   1   1  2        6      1
.17  Alavanyo Sec. Tech.                                     4   -   1   1  2      6       1
Buem                      18  Okadjakrom Sec. Tech.        4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1  2       8      1
Buem                      19  Boglo Sec. Tech. (increase   6       1   1       5       6  -   1   1  2        7      1
Hohoe                         Intake before take off)
Ho                        20  Logba Agrlc Sec.             -   -  -   -        _       2  3            2      6      -
Nkwanta                   21  Dzolo Secondary              _   -  -   -        -       _       _   _-                1
Ho                        22  Nkwanta Secondary            -   -  -   -             _                             1
Kadiebi                   23  Adaklu Secondary             -  -  -   -              _                             1
24  Dodi Papase Sec.             -   -  -   -       _       6  -  1      1  2      7
!  Subtotal                24                              86  7  17  16    83         84  3  20  20 44   131    16



NO. OF REQD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACIUTIES
SPACES AND FACIUTIES        PROVIDED
TOTAL                          TOTAL
NO. OF                         NO. OF   CHS
STRUC-                         STRUC- 3IVEN
REGION             DISTRICT          NO.            SCHOOL             MS1 WE MS2 MS3 TURES    MS1 WE MS2 MS3 SB TURES  GS
G. WESTERN  Shama Ahanta East              1  Diabene Sec. Tech.            4       1   1       4       4  -   1   1   2        6
2  Adlembra Secondary            2       1   1       3       2   -   1   1   2       5
3  Shama Secondary               6       1   1       5       2  -  1      1  2       5      1
Ahanta West                4  Agona Nkwanta Sec. Tech.       6   1   1   1       6       6   -   1   1   2      7       1
Nzima East                 5  Esiama Sec. Tech.              2   1   !   1       4       6   -   I   1   2      7
Jomoro                     6  Jomoro Secondary               4       1   1       4       4  -   1   1   2       6       1
Wassa Amenfl               7  Asankragua Sec. Tech.          4       1   1       4       2   -   1   1  2       5       1
Setwi Wlawso               8  Setwi Wiawso Sec. Tech.        4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1  2       6
9  Asawieso Secondary            4   1   1   1       5       4  -   1   1   2        6      1
Bibiani-Antwiaso-Bekwal   10  Sefwi Bekwal Sec.              4       1   1       4       4   -   1   1   2      6       1
Juabeso Bia                11  Juabeso-Bia Sec.              6       1   1       5       6   -   1   1  2        7      1
12  Debiso-Essem Sec. Tech.      2        1   1      3        2   -   1   1   2      5       1
Wassa West                 13  Prestea Sect. Tech.           4   1   1   1       5       2   -   1   1   2       5
14  Benso Sec. Tech.             2        1   1      3        2  -   1   1  2        5       1
Aowin Susman               15  Nana Brentu Sec. Tech.        6       1   1       5       4   -   1   1   2       6      1
16  Dadieso Secondary            16  1   1   1       11       2   -   1   1   2      5       1
Mpohor Wassa West          17  Daboase Sec. Tech.            4       1   1       4       2   -   1   1   2      5       1
I8  Mpohor Secondary             2        1   1      3        4  -   1   1  2        6       1
Subtotal                   18                               82  5  18  18    82         62       18  18  36   103       13



NO. OF REOD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACIUTIES
SPACES AND FACIUTIES       PROVIDED
TOTAL                          TOTAL
NO. OF                         NO. OF  SCHS
STRUC-                         STRUC- GIVEN
REGION             DISTRICT         NO.             SCHOOL            MS1 WS MS2 MS3 TURES    MS1 WS MS2 MS3 SB TURES  GS
H. NORTHERN  Tamale                       1  Kalpohin Secondary            6       1   1       6       2   -   1   1  4       7
2  Vi.ping Sec. Tech.            6   1  1   1       6        4   -  1   1  4        8
Damongo                    3  Damongo Sec. Tech.            2       1   1       3       4   -   1   1  2       6       1
Kpandal                    4  Kpandai Secondary             2       1   1       3       2   -   1   1   2      5       1
Wulunsi                    5  Wulunsl Secondary             4       1   1       4       2   -   1   1  2        5      1
Bunkpurugu                 6  Bunkpurugu Sec. Tech.         6       1   1       5       4   -   1   1  2       6       1
Wulugu                     7  Wulugu Secondary                           1      1       4   -   1   1  2        6      1
Tuna                       8  Tuna                          6   2   1   1       7       2  -   1   1  2        5
Yendi                      9  Dagbon Sec. Tech.                     1   1       2       2   -   1   1  2       5       1
Chereponi                  10  Chereponi Sec. Tech.         2       1   1       3       2   -   1   1  2        5      1
Saboba                     llSaboba E. P. Sec.              6   1   1   1       6       2  -   1   1  2        5       1
Gushiegu                   12  Gushiegu                     2       1   1       3       2  -   1   1   2       5       1
Zabzugu                    13  Zabzugu                      2       1   1       3       4  -  1      1  2      6       1
Tolon                      14  Tolon Secondary              4       1   1       4       4  -   1   1  2        6       1
Kumbungu                  15  Kumbungu Secondary            2       1   1       3       4   -   1   1  2       6       1
Savelugu                   16  Savelugu Nanton Sec.                 1   1       2       4   -   1   1  2       6       1
Kpong-Tamale               17  Kpong -Tamale Sec.                   1           1       4   -   1   1  2       6       1
jEast Gonja                18  Salaga T. I. Ahmadiyya Sec.    _      -   -       -       4   3   -   1  2       8       -
!Yendi                     19  Bimbilla Sec. Sch.            _       -   -       -       -   -   -   -          -       1
20  Yendl Sec. Sch.
I______ |LSubtotaI                        20                               52  4 1161    62            56 3  17  18 40   106          15



NO. OF REQD. TEACHING   NO. OF FACILITIES
SPACES AND FACILITIES       PROVIDED
TOTAL                           TOTAL
NO. OF                          NO. OF  SCHS
STRUC-                          STRUC- GIVEN
REGION              DISTRICT         NO.             SCHOOL             MS1 WE MS2 MS3 TURES    MS1 WE MS2 MS3 SB TURES  GS
I. UPPER       Bawku East                  1  Bawku Sec. Tech.                   1   1   1       3       4   -   1   1   4       8       1
EAST        Bawku West                  2  Kusanaba Secondary             2   1   1   1       4        4   -   1   1  4       8       1
Builsa                      3  Fumbisi Secondary              2   1   1   1       4       2   -   1   1  4        7       1
Bolgatanga                  4  Kongo Secondary                2       1   1       3       2   -   1   1  4        7       1
Kassena Nankani             5  O. L. L. Sec. Tech.           2   1   1   1        4       2   -   1   1   4       7
6  Chiana Secondary              2   1   1   1        4       2  -   1   1  4         7       1
7  Awe Sec. Tech. (Awaiting
i                               I feedback on take off of school)  2   1   1   1  4        2   -   1   1  4        7
|Bongo                      8  Bongo Secondary                2   2   1   1        5       2  -   1   1  4         7      1
9  Gowrie Secondary              4   1   1   1        5       4  -   1   1  4         8       1
Subtotal                    9                                18  99    9         36      24       9   9  36    66        9
J. UPPER      ILawra                       1  Eremon Sec. Tech.              2       1   1       3        2  -  1      1  4      7       1
WEST        Jirapa/Lambusie             2  Ullo Secondary                     2   1   1       4        2   -   1   1  4        7      1
i                            3  Plina Secondary               4   2   1   1        6       2  - 1   1  4           7      1
Sissala/Tumu                4  Tumu Sec. Tech.                6   2   1   1       7       4   -   1   1  4        8
Nadawli                     5  Kaleo Sec. Tech.              4        1   1       4       4   -   1   1  4        8       1
I                           6  Daffiama Secondary             4        1   1      4        4  -   1   1  4         8      1
7  Wa Community Day              -   _                _       2  -   1   1  4         7      -
'Subtotal                   7                                 20  6   6   6       28      20-7   7  28    52              5



MAP SECTION






ewo ~BURKINA FASO
-  C      1                  135  134    O1                                                                 GHANA
NGA#J \                                                         \  / COMMUNITY
t4e  )1<F   X132  \         tAILSECONDARY SCHOOLS
6"7A)4313s1,t3       el-O    \    \                      CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Location of New
Secondary Schools
PRIMARYROADS
.2AOR SE-:ON4DARY ROADS
12 S  tz 1|2      ALE                                                   u111IR SECONDARY ROADS
,   Zobvu-   |        (3    REGION HEIDQUARlERS
,1N |1ASIORA CAPITAL
0 Bole  D   u   >f Ygwlul/e             .                                                     REGION BOUNDARIES
INIAEPRNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Note: Red Numbers Denote
Locations Of Community
Secondary Schools.
D'IVOIRE                                                            \                                                          -; \ } . U l,,,,,C, J  E.G  See List Of Schools
)   \   /   feo, 0  <>CIsIdr  l           g          Following Map.
( /    j    bLznbLzP   /           ; e                   . ~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~~~~79 1 
6   27 uc         <                         X         4   V:         ,> I                                     TOGO
ad'..~~~~~~~~~~~~~E''AE .,~p,,db
\   104  AW aa  I  .   /)    7  14rqlgons 1       S         I YAl1.7           1            >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .,.,, I   C,.p,
23                                          22'      3'                          C2
1 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1 3  20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9            9                                 4      '                                                             '                                    E - 
tas1.,l.t. ~ ~ ~ K 10tw                      9                                                                               TOG
toloba ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                             6                    83 CPECOS
,    SEKONDI                                                                                    {s.ts d s@ach"KOFORIDU
v>  rt)   (Ljll  4ef f   opdne sSf r53e.









TMAGING
Report No:       15212
Type: icR          51



