Report No. PID5679
Project Name                     India-Third District Primary (@)
Education Project (DPEP III)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       INPA38021
Borrower                         Government of India
Implementing Agency              Department of Education
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Room 110, Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi, 110001, India
Contact: Mr. R. S. Pandey
Joint Secretary
Fax: 91-11-3381355 and 91-11-3382947
Appraisal Date                   July 20, 1997
Date Prepared                    October 21, 1997
Projected Board Date             December 2, 1997
Project Objectives: The project will assist the Government of Bihar
(GOB) to build and strengthen state, district and sub-district
institutional capacity to ensure that more children, especially
from socially disadvantaged groups (female, scheduled caste [SC]
and scheduled tribe [ST] students, working children, children with
mild to moderate learning disabilities and other children who have
limited access to educational opportunities), complete a five-year
primary education cycle of appropriate quality in low literacy districts
Project Description: The proposed project will have three components:
(a) Expanding access to primary education, particularly of the
disadvantaged group by: (i) constructing new classrooms and schools
and repairing and rehabilitating existing classrooms; (ii)
sanctioning new teaching posts and appointing teachers; (iii)
developing and implementing targeted interventions for the socially
disadvantaged group; (iv) mobilizing school and community
organizations and carrying-out awareness campaigns in support of
education; and (v) establishing a Village Education Committee (VEC)
for each school in the project districts.
(b) Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in
primary school by: (i) selectively establishing new and
strengthening existing early childhood education centers (ECCEs);
(ii) supporting interventions for women's education and empowerment
programs; (iii) installing toilets and water facilities in the
primary schools; (iv) establishing and operating block and cluster
resource centers (BRCs and CRCs); (v) providing continuous in-
service teacher training; (vi) developing and supplying improved
textbooks and supplementary instructional materials; (vii)
providing grants to schools, community organizations and individual



teachers; and (viii) carrying out periodic primary student learning
assessments.
(c) Improving state and district capacity to manage primary
education by: (i) building and strengthening state and district
program management structures to review and supervise the
implementation of state and district investment plans and annual
work plans and budgets designed to enhance access to and improve
the quality and efficiency of primary education; (ii) establishing
and strengthening state and district resource institutions, such as
the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), the
State Institution of Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT)
and the Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation (BSTPC) at the
state level and the District Institutes of Education and Training
(DIETs) or equivalent institutions in all project districts and
resource groups at the state and district levels to provide
technical support in project implementation; (iii) strengthening
the state and district capacity for monitoring, research and
evaluation and carrying out related activities; (iv) establishing a
facility to support innovative approaches to improve primary
education; and (v) developing training modules for micro-planning
and VEC training and training of master trainers (See 1/) .
Project Implementation: The proposed project will be implemented in
17 educationally disadvantaged districts of Bihar. These districts,
with the exception of one, comply with the female literacy criteria
set up in the DPEP Guidelines. The female literacy rate in the
selected districts ranges from 14 to 46 percent and averages 22
percent. The average SC and ST population in the districts is 15
and 11 percent, respectively. Some of these districts have a female
gross primary enrollment rate of less than 50 percent and a total
dropout rate in the first five grades of primary education of about
60 percent.
All the 17 district and state investment proposals were appraised
by the DPEP Bureau through its Technical Support Group (TSG). IDA
reviewed the: (i) national appraisal process carried out by the
TSG, the state investment proposal and a selected number of
district investment proposals as well as the corresponding first
year annual working plans and budgets (AWPBs); (ii) assessed the
readiness for project implementation at the state and district
levels offices; and (iii) appraised the project implementation plan
prepared by the DPEP Bureau/TSG. The state and all district AWPBs
complied with the DPEP Guidelines. Each district carried out a
baseline survey of student achievement and a social assessment
study and participation report. In addition, the state completed an
education finance study with terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
The IDA appraisal mission endorsed the national appraisal process
and the recommendations of its report.
Project implementation would be coordinated by the DPEP Bureau at
the Department of Education (DOE) of the Ministry of Human Resource
Development of the Government of India (GOI). Actual implementation
of the proposed project would be delegated to the Government of
Bihar (GOB) through the Bihar Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad (State
-2 -



Implementation Society [SISI) established in 1991 to manage the
Bihar Basic Education Project financed by GOI, GOB and UNICEF. The
yearly release of funding to the SIS by the GOI would be based on
the review by the DPEP Bureau of the state and district AWPBs. The
review criteria to assess AWPBs for the subsequent year against
progress and supervision reports prepared by the DPEP Bureau and
program donors comprise: (i) good project implementation
performance at the state and district levels, including the rate of
utilization of previously released funds; (ii) state compliance
with the annual payment of the 15 percent contribution to the
ongoing DPEP III; and (iii) evidence of state compliance with the
additionality of DPEP III investments compared to the 1995/96
Bihar's elementary education expenditure levels. The first year of
DPEP III implementation would be primarily focused on developmental
activities, including: (a) capacity building in the state and
districts; and (b) establishment of the basic professional and
physical infrastructure for improved learning in participating districts.
The proposed project would be supervised twice a year following the
joint supervision scheme devised for DPEP I and II. Local research
institutions and NGOs would be involved in project design and
execution in a variety of ways, including innovative activities,
effective multi-grade teaching, work with women's groups and the
carrying out of non-formal education programs and alternative
schooling modalities. While supervision will begin following the
DPEP supervision model, IDA will be working closely with GOI to
assess whether or not additional supervision will be required.
Project Cost and Financing: The estimated total project cost of
US$199.7 million equivalent would be financed by an IDA Credit of
SDR 111.8 million (US$152 million equivalent). UNICEF has confirmed
its interest in supporting this proposed operation with a Grant of
about US$10 million. GOB would finance the remaining costs of
US$37.7 million equivalent, including all taxes.
Environmental and Social Aspects: No environmental impacts are
anticipated. The special needs of the socially disadvantaged groups
will be addressed on the basis of the district-based social
assessment studies carried out as part of project preparation and
required to confirm district eligibility for support under DPEP
III. The results of the social assessment studies are being used to
define state and district strategies for improving the access to,
retention in and quality of primary education of the different
socially disadvantaged groups, together with implementation plans
and corresponding annual budgets. Lessons learned from the
implementation of the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education, DPEP I and
DPEP II IDA-assisted programs were incorporated in the design of
DPEP III and are being applied in the implementation of DPEP III in
all project districts. In addition, the DPEP Guidelines call for
widespread stakeholder and beneficiary participation in the design
of district strategies. The districts would carry out their project
in accordance with tribal strategies meeting criteria agreed with IDA.
1/    This sub-component is fully financed by the UNICEF grant.
-3 -



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 24, 1997.
- 4 -



