Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17102-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 111.8 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
THIRD DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
October 27, 1997
Education Sector
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =          Rupee
US$1.00           =          Rs. 35.00
US$0.0285         =          Rs. 1.00
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AWPB                  Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS                   Baseline Assessment Study
BEP                   Bihar Education Project
BSPP                  Bihar Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad
BRC                   Block Resource Center
BSTPC                 Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation
CRC                   Cluster Resource Center
DFID                  UK Department for International Development (previously ODA)
DIET                  District Institute of Education and Training
DLO                   District-level Project Office
DOE                   Department of Education
DPEP                  District Primary Education Project
ECE                   Early Childhood Education Center
ECU                   European Commission Unit
EMIS                  Education Management Information System
GOB                   Government of Bihar
GOI                   Government of India
ICDS                  Integrated Child Development Service
JSM                   Joint Supervision Mission..
MHRD                  Ministry of Human Resource Development
MLL                   Minimum Levels of Learning
MS                    Mahila Samakhya
NCERT                 National Council of Educational Research and Training
PMIS                  Project Management Information System
SAS                   Social Assessment Study
SC                    Scheduled Caste
SCERT                 State Council of Educational Research and Training
SIEMAT                State Institution of Educational Management and Training
SIDA                  Swedish International Development Agency
SIS                   State Implementation Society
SLO                   State-level Project Office
ST                    Scheduled Tribe
TSG                   Technical Support Group
UNICEF                United Nations Children's Fund
UPBEP                 Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project
VEC                   Village Education Committee
Vice President              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director            Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager              Ralph W. Harbison
Task Manager                Juan Prawda



INDIA
THIRD DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT FINANCING DATA ......................................... .1
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..........................................2
1.   Project Development Objectives ..........................................2
2.   Project Components ..........................................2
3.   Benefits and target population ..........................................2
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ..........................................3
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE ..........................................6
5. CAS objectives supported by the project                          .6
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy                         .6
7.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices        .7
8.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection             .7
9.   Major related projects financed by the Bank, and/or other development agencies    .     8
10.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                 .8
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                      .8
12. Value added of Bank support                                .9
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS .......................................9
13. Economic Assessment                                     .9
14. Financial Assessment .10
15. Technical Assessment .1
16. Institutional Assessment .1 
17. Social Assessment .11
18. Environmental Assessment                                  .1
19. Participatory Approach .12
20. Sustainability .12
21. Critical Risks .13
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .13
BLOCK 4: MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ..........................................                      14
23.  Effectiveness Conditions ..........................................                     14
24.  Other ..........................................                                        14
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES                          ........................................ 14
ANNEXES
1   Project Design Summary
2    Detailed Project Description
3    Estimated Project Costs
4    Economic and Social Outcomes of Primary Schooling in India and in Bihar
5    Financial Summary
6    Procurement Arrangements and Allocations of the Credit Proceeds
7    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
8    Documents in the Project File
9    Statement of Loans and Credits
10   India at a Glance






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
South Asia Region
Project Appraisal Document
India
Third District Primary Education Project (DPEP III)
Date:              October 27, 1997                                         [x] Final
Task Manager:      Juan Prawda                            Country Director:   Edwin R. Lim
Project ID:        IN-PE-38021                            Sector:            Education
POC:               Human Resources
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit            PTI:              [x] Yes
Project Financing Data                                [x]  Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 111.8 million (US$152.0 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms:                                        [x]  SDR
Grace period (years): 10
Years to maturity: 35 years including grace period
Commitment fee: not to exceed 1/2 of one
percent per annum
Service charge: 3/4 of one percent per annum
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                 Local               Foreign             Total
Government                                                      37.7                 0.0                37.7
Cofmanciers (UNICEF)'                                            10.0                0.0                10.0
IDA                                                            144.1                 7.9               152.0
TOTAL                                                          191.8                 7.9               199.7
Borrower:             Govermment of India (GOI), acting by its President
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:    Bihar Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad (BSPP) of the Government of Bihar (GOB)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1998        1999        2000     2001     2002      2003    2004
Annual    7.0         22.5        41.8      36.5     23.3       16.7     4.2
Cumulative    7.0         29.5        71.4    107.8    131.1    147.8   152.0
Expected effectiveness date: April 1, 1998                                           Closing date: September 30, 2003
UNICEF confirmed to IDA, GOI and GOB during the appraisal mission its intention to contribute a grant through a parallel cofinancing
arrangement. This grant contribution is pending UNICEF Board approval.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 2
Country: India                                                                                     Project Tite: DPEP 111
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators): The project will assist the Government of Bihar
(GOB) to build and strengthen state, district and sub-district institutional capacity to ensure that more children, especially from
socially disadvantaged groups (female, scheduled caste [SC] and scheduled tribe [ST] students, working children, children with mild
to moderate learning disabilities and other children who have limited access to educational opportunities2), complete a five-year
primary education cycle of appropriate quality in districts with low levels of literacy.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown): The proposed project will
have the following three components:
(a) Expanding access to primary education, particularly for disadvantaged groups by: (i) constructing new classrooms and schools,
and repairing or rehabilitating existing classrooms; (ii) sanctioning new teaching posts and appointing teachers; (iii) developing and
implementing targeted interventions for socially disadvantaged groups; (iv) mobilizing school and community organizations and
carrying out awareness campaigns in support of education; and (v) establishing a Village Education Committee (VEC) for each school
in the project districts.
(b) Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary school by: (i) selectively establishing new, and strengthening
existing, early childhood education centers (ECEs); (ii) supporting interventions for women's education and empowerment programs;
(iii) installing toilets and water facilities in the primary schools; (iv) establishing and operating block and cluster resource centers
(BRCs and CRCs); (v) providing continuous in-service teacher training; (vi) developing and supplying improved textbooks and
supplementary instructional materials; (vii) providing grants to schools, community organizations and individual teachers for the
purchase of educational supplies and other quality inputs; and (viii) carrying out periodic learning assessments of primary level
students.
(c) Improving state and district capacity to manage primary education by: (i) building and strengthening state and district program
management structures to review and supervise the implementation of state and district investment plans as well as annual work plans
and budgets; (ii) establishing and strengthening state and district resource institutions, such as the State Council of Educational
Research and Training (SCERT), the State Institution of Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT) and the Bihar State
Textbook Publishing Corporation (BSTPC) at the state level, and the District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) or
equivalent institutions in all project districts, and resource groups at the state and district levels to provide technical support in project
implementation; (iii) strengthening state and district capacity for carrying out monitoring, research and evaluation activities; (iv)
establishing a facility to support innovative approaches to improve primary education; and (v) developing training modules for micro-
planning, VEC training and training of master trainers.3
Component                                                      Cost Incl. Contingencies   % of Total
1. Expanding access to primary education                                                 103.6              51.9
2. Increasing retention and improving learning                                           75.5               37.8
achievement in primary school
3. Improving state and district capacity to manage                                       20.7               10.3
primary education
Project total (may not add up)            199.8              100.0
IDA Financing                             152.0
3. Benefits:and target population: The proposed project would target about 5.5 million children aged 6-10 in the 17 educationally
disadvantaged districts of Bihar. Special attention would be given to the most socially disadvantaged groups: (i) 2.75 million girls;
(ii) about 825,000 SC and 500,000 ST children; and (iii) children with mild to moderate learning disabilities, working children
(currently estimated at 275,000 for each group) and other children who have limited access to educational opportmities. More
2Hereafter referred to as disadvantaged groups.
This last sub-component is fully financed by the UNICEF grant.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 3
Country: India                                                                                  Project Title: DPEP III
precise numbers and the circumstances that prevent educational access to this latter group are being confrmed by the VECs through
the ongoing validation of the results of the district-based social assessment studies. Increased access in the 17 districts: The project
will create about 400,000 new places for children aged 6-10 through the construction of 2,350 new schools and 4,400 new
classrooms, the repair or rehabilitation of about 300 existing classrooms, and the establishment of about 8,000 non-fonnal
(alternative) education centers by the beginning of 2001. It is expected that at least 50 percent of these new places will benefit girls.
Improved retention in the 17 districts: By the end of the project, current attendance should rise by 50 percent (from the current 50 to
75 percent). In other words, 660,000 more children per year would attend school on a regular basis during the entire school year. In
addition, the current retention rate (children attending class V divided by number of children attending class I) of 37.9 percent should
rise to 43.6 percent (a 15 percent improvement) by the end of project implementation. This will imply that about 330,000 additional
children will graduate per year from the five-year primary education cycle. Improved learning in the 17 districts: The project aims to
improve the quality of instruction and learning achievement for approximately 5.5 million children aged 6-10 attending primary
school every year on a regular basis. Social and economic benefits: see para. 13 and Annex 4 .
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: April 1, 1998 to March 31, 2003
Executing agency:    Bihar Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad - BSPP (State Implementation Society - SIS). This autonomous Society
headquartered in Patna, Bihar was registered under the 1860 Societies Registration Act in 1991 to manage
the Bihar Education Project (BEP) fmanced by GOI, GOB and UNICEF. For purposes of DPEP III, the
BSPP will enter a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with GOI which has been reviewed by IDA.
Project coordination:   District Primary Education Program (DPEP) Bureau of the Department of Education (DOE) at the Ministry
of Human Resource Development (MHRD) of the Government of India (GOI), established in 1993 to
coordinate the DPEP.
LPoject oversight:   DPEP BureauO GOI
Project implementation: The size, complexity and degree of innovation involved in the start-up phases of DPEP III are recognized by
GOI and GOB. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) prepared by the state-level project office (SLO) of the BSPP was reviewed by
IDA during the appraisal mission. Prior to negotiations, IDA received a revised version of the PIP incorporating all the suggestions
made during the appraisal mission and specified in the corresponding Aide-Memoire. According to the revised PIP, implementation
would be through incremental expansion of the state and district components and subcomponents with the release of funding
reflecting performance and the rate of utilization of previously released funds. The first year of DPEP III implementation would be
primarily focused on developmental activities, including: (a) building management capacity in the SLO and the 17 district-level
project offices (DLOs); (b) strengthening state and district resource institutions and/or groups; and (c) establishing the basic
professional capacity and providing the physical infrastructure for improved learning in participating districts.
In accordance with the DPEP Guidelines, annual funding during project implementation will be based on: (i) good state and district
project implementation; (ii) compliance of the annual work plans and budgets (AWPBs) with the DPEP guidelines; (iii) evidence of
payment of GOB to the BSPP of the 15 percent state contribution to the ongoing DPEP program; and (iv) demonstrated additionality
of DPEP investments compared to 1995/96 elementary education expenditure levels in Bihar. During negotiations, GOB provided
assurances that it will carry out, and cause the BSPP to carry out, the project in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and the PIP
agreed with IDA (para. 24(d) and Annex 2).
The initial year of project implementation would be based on the state and 17 districts AWPBs for 1998, approved by the DPEP
Bureau on the basis of the national appraisal report and process (NARP) carried out by the technical support group (TSG) of the
DPEP Bureau last May. This NARP was reviewed by IDA for the state component and five DPEP III districts (Chatra, Purnia,
Sitamarhi, West Champaran and West Singhbhum) during the appraisal mission.  The IDA mission endorsed the key
recommendations of the NARP. The first year AWPBs emphasize project launch and start-up activities.
The IDA appraisal mission reviewed the steps taken by the SLO to ensure project implementation readiness. First, the SLO is fully
operational and staffed with qualified personnel. Any remaining vacancies will be filled no later than the first semester 1998.
Second in addition to the 7 BEP existing DLOs, 10 additional DLOs are being officially established in the other project districts. The
process for the appointment of key personnel in the 10 new DLOs has been initiated, and the selection of a full-time qualified
fnancial/accounting official, civil works engineer and a management information system computer programmer has been
substantially completed for the DLOs. Orientation and professional training packages for the staff positioned at the SLO and all
DLOs are being prepared and will shortly be delivered. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will: (i) maintain the
SLO and DLOs with responsibilities to coordinate project implementation, with adequate staff, resources and facilities by the end of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 4
Country: India                                                                                 Project rdle: DPEP IIl
June 1998; and (ii) establish a program of staff training satisfactory to IDA (paras. 16 and 24(e) and Annex 2). Thid, a limited set of
key activities to be implemented between the end of the IDA appraisal mission and Credit effectiveness (estimated to occur by April
1998) has been identified at the state and district levels and has been included in the first year AWPBs. Fourth, the BSPP has in its
BEP bank account Rs. 26 crores, and an additional Rs. 10 crores in the pipeline, totaling more than the estimated 31 crores needed to
implement agreed project activities in the period up to the end of March 1998. A bank account for the DPEP III implementation will
be opened by the BSPP with an initial deposit sufficient to cover expenditures for the project start up activities. Fifth, the members of
the state resource groups (SRG) for the various project components have been identified, and some groups have already started their
activities. Sixth, a draft plan and time schedule for the filling of vacancies in the DIETs is in place. Seventh, twinning arrangements
between BEP districts with non-BEP districts to provide technical assistance have been set up. Eigbt, the designs and management
plans for the civil works included from October 1997 through March 1998 in the seven BEP districts have been prepared, and the
bidding documents are being prepared. Ninth, the DPEP Bureau sponsored a seminar to train SLO personnel in IDA procurement
methods in August 1997. Finallv, a project launch workshop for the SLO and the 17 DLOs planning and management teams would
be carried out after negotiations.
To meet the objectives of increased access and retention and improved learning achievement, the project needs to be implemented,
especially during the first two years, in an enviromnent that provides at least the minimum conditions for effective functioning of the
system. While several proposed project interventions can help with establishing VECs, community mobilization and awareness
campaigns, CRC school-level support, and repair of existing buildings, etc., broader policy measures will also be required. During
negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will: (a) take all necessary measures to ensure that at least 95 percent of the teachers'
posts in the project districts, starting the third year of the project, remain filled throughout the project implementation period (paras.
20, 21, 24(g) and Annex 2); and (b) cause the BSPP to establish by December 31, 1999, in an appropriate number of sample of
villages in each project district, a reliable education database of: (i) the number of public, private recognized and non-recognized
schools through microplanning exercises to be conducted by the VECs; and (ii) the best estimates of teacher and student attendance in
such schools through the establishment of attendance reporting mechanisms by the VECs and the educational management
information system (EMIS) (para. 24(j) and Annex 2). In addition, at negotiations, GOI and GOB provided assurances that they will
carry out with IDA and other external financiers, including UNICEF, a joint in-depth review of the project on two occasions by
December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001; such reviews to include a status report of the positioning of teachers in project districts
based on Bihar's norms (paras. 20 and 24(b) and Annex 2). Finally, prior to negotiations, IDA received from GOB a suitable
implementation schedule to fill all teacher vacancies in project districts and a statement of the state norm for posting primary school
teachers.
The procurement arrangements are explained in Annex 6 (Tables 6A and 6B).
Disbursements: The IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years, consistent with the new standard profile for PHR projects in
India. The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003, and close on September 30, 2003. The IDA Credit would be
disbursed in accordance with the allo ations and category of expenditure shown in Table 6C. UNICEF financing would be separate
from the IDA Credit. UNICEF's accounting mechanisms will be worked out to maintain a clear coded identification of the
subcomponents financed by UNICEF within a common account held at the BSPP. Table 6B indicates the contracts of civil works,
goods and services subject to prior review. All other expenditures not requiring prior review would be disbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOE), with supporting documentation retained by the SLO and DLOs for review by IDA during the joint
supervision missions, to be carried out twice a year. During negotiations, GOI agreed to submit to IDA evidence that a MOU has
been entered into between the BSPP and GOI as a condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit (para. 24(o)).
In order to accelerate disbursement of IDA's share of expenditures that will be pre-financed by GOI and GOB, and to allow for direct
payment of other local and foreign expenditures, during negotiations GOI agreed to maintain a Special Account in the Reserve Bank
of India in the amount of US$9 million, to cover four months of estimated disbursements through the Special Account. The GOI
would release an advance of an estimated six months of expected project requirements for IDA-financed items as grants to the BSPP.
The GOB would also place their own contribution in the account of the BSPP. These provisions are identical to those employed in the
DPEP I and II projects. During appraisal, the IDA mission agreed with GOI and GOB to retroactively fnance up to SDR 4.6 million
(US$6.2 million equivalent) of eligible project expenditures. This retroactive financing amounts to about 4 percent of the total Credit.
During negotiations, GOI agreed that the following expenditures incurred by the project after August 15, 1997 and up to the expected
date of Credit signing (January 1998) will be eligible for retroactive fnancing: (i) civil works; (ii) equipment, vehicles, books,
teaching materials and furniture; (iii) project management team costs; (iv) training, workshops, fellowships and consultant services;
and (v) incremental operating and maintenance costs.
Monitoring and evaluation arranuements: During negotiations, GOI and GOB provided assurances that they will maintain policies



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 5
Country: India                                                                                Project Title: DPEP IIl
and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
IDA, the carrying out of the project and achievement of the objectives thereof (para. 24(a)). As in DPEP I and II, the central program
management monitoring tool would be the annual review by the DPEP Bureau of the AWPBs prepared by the SLO and each
participating DLO including: (i) the action plans, investment proposals and fmancing requirements for the next fiscal year; and (ii)
reports on the progress of implementation covering physical targets for civil works, procurement, training, software/system
development and expenditures. The review would be conducted by the DPEP Bureau in the first quarter of each year. Progress
reports and work plans would follow a common framework.
Progress towards the achievement of development objectives would be measured in seven ways. First, district-based assessment
surveys conducted in the third and last year of the project would monitor progress on key education indicators, most importantly,
student learnig achievement against the district-based baseline assessment study carried out during project preparation. The results
of these studies would be discussed at one of the annual implementation review workshops (most probably in the first quarter of
CYOI) and at project completion (by March 2003). Prior to appraisal, GOB provided IDA with fmal reports on the baseline
achievement studies for the 17 districts. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will carry out assessment studies on
student learning achievement in all the project districts, with scope and content satisfactory to IDA, in calendar years 2000 and 2002
(para. 24(k) and Annex 2). Project performance indicators developed by the DPEP Bureau/GOI and GOB have also been agreed with
IDA and are attached in a Supplemental Letter to the Development Credit and Project Agreements (Annex 1).
Program evaluation and research studies would provide a second source of monitoring information. They would monitor the
establishment of more effective teaching and learning processes at the school level. A third source would be a computerized project
management information system (PMIS) and the EMIS which have been developed and are fully operational in all DPEP I and II
project states. Certain modules of the PMIS and EMIS are already operational in the SLO and in the 7 BEP DLOs. The PMIS
provides quarterly reports concerning the project's physical targets for civil works, procurement, and training, software/system
development and expenditures. The EMIS provides annual reports on district, sub-district and school attendance, enrollment and
retention data and rates, disaggregated by type of disadvantaged and non-disadvantaged group. The IDA appraisal mission confirmed
that the BSPP is taking appropriate steps to have the PMIS and EMIS in the SLO and each DLO made fully operational with key core
staff in place by June 30, 1998.
A fourth source of information would be an attendance reporting mechanism through the VECs and sample surveys. These sources of
information will improve the reliability and validity of the database being incorporated in the EMIS. During negotiations, GOB
provided assurances that it will cause the BSPP to establish by December 31, 1999, in an appropriate number of sample of villages in
each project district, a reliable education database of: (i) the number of public, private-recognized and non-recognized schools
through microplanning exercises to be conducted by the VECs; and (ii) the best estimates of teacher and student attendance in such
schools through the establishment of attendance reporting mechanisms by the VECs and the EMIS (para. 24(j) and Annex 2).
The fifithsource of information would be provided by a semi-annual Project Disbursement and Financial Management Reporting
System. This reporting system comprises semi-annual reports on: (i) sources of project funding; and (ii) applications of funding by
category of expenditure and by project component. This information will provide twice a year the variance between the actual and
budgeted allocations and applications of project funding. This information would also ensure the accountability of Bank ftmds and
that project implementation is fulfilling the requirements associated with the disbursement process. During negotiations, GOI agreed
to explore the possibility of adapting the software of the existing DPEP PMIS and EMIS to prepare the above-mentioned semi-annual
reports to be provided to IDA every six months through the Joint Supervision Missions (JSMs).
A sixth-source of information would be the annual supervision reports of the DPEP Bureau and the DPEP JSMs carried out twice a
year by specialist staff appointed by GOI and program donors, including IDA. In addition, the DPEP Bureau and DPEP Project
states, including Bihar, will conduct an annual implementation review workshop where states would report on their project
implementation progress and share experiences in the implementation of one program element selected in consultation with the
program donors. During negotiations, GOI and GOB confirmed the agreement reached during the appraisal mission to: (i) include
DPEP III in the JSM scheme put in place for DPEP I and II; (ii) ensure for the period from February 1, 1998 to November 30, 2000,
visits by two 2-member teams, which shall include one IDA and one UNICEF representative, to visit Bihar during each JSM; and (iii)
propose, prior to November 30, 2000, a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for supervision missions to DPEP III after such date.
Finally, the seventh source of information would be provided by two in-depth reviews of the project to be conducted by GOI and
GOB. During negotiations, GOI and GOB provided assurances that they will: (a) carry out, with IDA and other external fmanciers
including UNICEF, a joint in-depth review of the project on two occasions by December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001, which
will include: (i) a status report, in both reviews, of the positioning of teachers in project districts based on Bihar's norms; and (ii) a



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 6
Country: India                                                                                 Project Ttle: DPEP III
status report, in the latter review, of the proposed strategies to sustain the capacities and services developed under the project, and the
modalities and framework of cooperation between the Borrower's Integrated Child Development and ECEs under the project (paras.
20, 21 and 24(b) and Annex 2); and (b) duly take into account the comments offered by IDA during each joint review in the course of
further implementation of the project (para. 24(c)).
Accounting. financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The project expenditures incurred by the BSPP would be subject to the
normal GOI and GOB accounting and auditing procedures, with the added requirement that the BSPP would establish and maintain a
separate account and accounting system to record all project transactions and appropriate support documnentation for the transactions.
The project account and the BSPP shall be audited annually, in accordance with its Memoranda of Association and appropriate
auditing principles conducted by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. GOI agreed to ascertain that the audit of the BSPP includes
a separate opinion on SOEs satisfactory to IDA. The BSPP would make appropriate arrangements satisfactory to IDA for auditing the
utilization of funds provided by the BSPP to other institutions, including the SOEs of those other institutions. In addition, the BSPP
accounts will be audited by the Accountant General of Bihar. Documentation supporting SOEs would be maintained at least one year
after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made.
The central account and the Special Account would be subject to normal GOI accounting and auditing procedures through the
Comptroller and the Auditor General of India and his appointees, which is considered satisfactory to IDA. The audit of the Special
Account will be in accordance with IDA guidelines. The Special Account would show all withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts
advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and balance at the end of each accounting period. The consolidated audit reports would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fmancial year. Audits will cover all project expenditures until such
time as the Credit has been closed. The accounting procedures set for the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (UPBEP), DPEP I
and II, similar to the ones described above for DPEP III, have proven to be satisfactory to IDA. Consolidated audit reports for these
three ongoing Credits have been provided to IDA in a timely fashion.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:
The project is consistent with the updated version of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Paper discussed by the Board on
September 5, 1996. The basic thrust and priorities of the 1995 CAS (discussed by the Board on June 20, 1995) are reconfirmed in the
updated CAS. Within the broad objective of promoting economic reform and speeding up economic growth, alleviating poverty is
central to IDA's CAS. Human resources development is a key element of this overall strategy, with education playing a central role.
Low educational enrollments, high dropout rates, and unacceptably low levels of educational achievement are major constraints to
social and economic improvements for the poor and socially disadvantaged groups. Hence, IDA's strategy for education, supported
through Economic and Sector Work and substantial IDA lending, is to focus medium-term assistance for education exclusively on
primary education given its underdeveloped status in India, its high returns, and its importance to alleviating poverty. Within this
strategy, targeting IDA's social assistance to Bihar assumes paramount importance as it is one of the poorest states in India. It has the
lowest real per capita NDP of all states (1991 data), the second to lowest annualized per capita real NDP growth rate in the 1961-91
period, holds almost 14 percent of the total Indian population living in poverty and 20 percent of India's out-of-school children, and
requires about 170,000 new teachers and 170,000 new classrooms to address the state's primary school issues.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The key sector issues in Bihar are: (i) extreme social stratification resulting in severe disadvantage in primary school access and
learning for girls, SC and ST students and working children; (ii) widespread poverty; (iii) public sector institutions in need of
strengthening; (iv) a system of public education that manages to retain and teach effectively, at most, 35 percent of first graders
through to grade 5; and (iv) public fnances that need to be improved.
GOI has expressed its interest in assisting GOB to tackle its enormous educational challenges through the umbrella of the District
Primary Education Program (DPEP). DPEP is a national program supported by a multi-donor financed operation that responds to the
Revised National Policy on Education and its accompanying National Program of Action, approved by the GOI and the states in 1992
to improve the quality of primary education and to reduce disparities in enrollment, dropout rates, and learning achievement by gender
and among socially disadvantaged groups. DPEP is currently being implemented in about 122 educationally disadvantaged districts of
thirteen states (Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal), affecting around 30 million children enrolled in 180,000 pritnary schools with
600,000 teachers. IDA's DPEP fnancial assistance presently amounts to about US$850 million in three Credits. In addition, the
European Commission is contributing with a grant of ECU 150 million (about US$200 million) for DPEP I in Madhya Pradesh, the
Government of the Netherlands is contributing with a grant of US$25.8 million for DPEP II in Gujarat, and the United Kingdom's



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 7
Country: India                                                                                     Project Title: DPEP III
Department for International Development (DFID), formerly the Overseas Development Administration (ODA), is contributing with a
grant of US$100 million for DPEP II in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. UNICEF has confirned a grant contribution of US$10
million for DPEP III in Bihar.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given that 6 million children aged 6-10 are out of the primary school system in Bihar, that two out of three primary school students
entering first grade will not complete the 5-year primary cycle, and that learing achievement of those completing the primary school
is dismally low, the following three issues are to be addressed in this state: (i) low enrollment, especially among girls, SC and ST
children, working children, children with mild-to-moderate learning disabilities and other children who have limited access to
educational opportunities; (ii) high dropout and repetition rates, resulting in high cost per graduate and low learning achievement; and
(iii) weak education management structures and institutions at the state, district, sub-district and school levels, resulting in sub-optimal
utilization of available resources. The project addresses these issues as follows:
(i) Increasing enrollment, especially among socially disadvantaged groups by: constructing new classrooms and schools and repairing
or rehabilitating existing classrooms; sanctioning new teaching posts and appointing teachers; developing and implementing targeted
interventions designed from the results of the district-based social assessment studies; supporting the design and trialing of alternative
schooling modalities including multi-grade centers, non-formal schools, ashram schools, escort teacher services and peripatetic
teachers; mobilizing school and community organizations and carrying out awareness campaigns in support of education; and
establishing a VEC for each school in the project districts.
(ii) Reducing high dropout and repetition rates and improving low learning achievement by: selectively establishing new and
strengthening existing ECEs; supporting interventions for women's education and empowerment programs; installing toilets and water
facilities in the primary schools; establishing and operating BRCs and CRCs; providing continuous in-service teacher training;
developing and supplying improved textbooks and supplementary instructional materials; providing grants to schools, community
organizations and individual teachers for the purchase of educational supplies and other quality inputs; and carrying out periodic
learning assessments of primary level students.
(iii) Improving weak education management structures and institutions at the state, district, sub-district and school levels by: building
and strengthening SLO and DLOs to review and supervise the implementation of state and district investment plans and annual work
plans and budgets designed to enhance access to and improve the quality and efficiency of primary education; establishing and
strengthening state and district resource institutions, such as the SCERT, the SIEMAT, the BSTPC and the DIETs (sanctioned by GOI)
or equivalent institutions in all project districts, and resource groups at the state and district levels, to provide technical support in
project implementation; strengthening the state and district capacity for carrying out monitoring, research and evaluation activities;
establishing a facility to support innovative approaches to improve primary education; and developing training modules for micro-
planning, VEC training and training of master trainers
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
During project preparation GOI, GOB, and IDA discussed different project features, including the following:
(a) Project implementation by the State Secretariat of Education was rejected, given the poor performance of the Government of Bihar
with other IBRD- and IDA-financed projects. Instead, the DPEP implementation scheme, through the existing BSPP, would be
adopted.
(b) Designing and operating the project separately from the BEP in seven educational districts of Bihar was rejected in order to fully
tap into the accumulated positive experience. Instead, the project has been prepared and would be operated in a context where BEP
activities will be merged into DPEP III in the current seven and ten newly added educational districts (totaling 17 educational districts
equivalent to 27 revenue districts as listed in Annex 2).
(c) Implementing the project in the total number of educationally disadvantaged districts in Bihar (55 revenue districts) was ruled out
given the financial and operational implications in a state context of public institutions in need of strengthening and with high public
fiscal deficits. On the other hand, implementing the project only in the seven BEP districts was also ruled out given the need to take
this project to scale to positively enhance primary education in the state. Instead, an agreement was reached with GOI and GOB to
implement the project in 17 educationally disadvantaged districts (Annex 2).
(d) Implementing the civil works component of the project through the Bihar Zilla Parishad Engineering Divisions, which have
discouraging implementation records, was opposed. Instead, the following approach to delivering educational infrastructure was
recommended: (i) use of cost-effective construction materials and techniques; (ii) employment of consultant architects to assure cost-
effective and appropriate designs and to promote quality control in physical works; (iii) BSPP employment of its own cadre of engineers,
on contract, in every district to supervise and monitor all works; (iv) supply of water and sanitation facilities in all schools; (v) awareness
and training programs for all stakeholders in use and maintenance of sanitation facilities; and (vi) promotion of community participation in
the initial building of the school and continuous maintenance of the education infrastructure.
These alternatives were further analyzed, discussed and confirmed by GOI and GOB during the appraisal mission of July 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 8
Country: India                                                                                     Project rtle: DPEP Ill
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue                                         Latest Form 590 Ratings
(a) The primary education issues mentioned in paras. 7(i) to (iii) above are being addressed in 13    (Bank-financed projects only)
Indian states by the following Bank- and non-Bank- financed sector investments:
Ongoing Bank-financed related projects                                                          I?_   1Q
Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (Cr. 2509-lN)                                              S     HS
DPEP I (Cr. 2661-IN)                                                                             S      S
DPEP II cofinanced by the Govermment of the Netherlands (Cr. 2661-IN)                            S      S
Ongoing ojects being fmanced by other development agencies:
DPEP in Madhya Pradesh financed by the European Commission
Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal Education Projects fnanced by DFID
Bihar Education Project financed by GOI, GOB and UNICEF
Rajasthan Lok Jumbish Project fnanced by GOI, the Governemnt of Rajasthan and the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA)
Women empowerment projects, addressed by the Mahila Samakhya (MS) Program and financed
by the Govermnent of the Netherlands
.  ......................w....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: The project design has incorporated lessons learned from the following
sources: (i) current IDA-financed education sector portfolio in India (UPBEP, DPEP I and II); (ii) other donor-financed education
projects in India; and (iii) international experience. Primary school enrollnents in the UPBEP districts have increased 30 percent in
lower primary (42 percent for girls) and about 40 percent in upper primary since 1993 (the starting implementation year of the project)
against 22.6 percent in non-UPBEP districts in lower primary. In the case of Haryana (a DPEP I state), prinary school enrollment in
DPEP districts has increased 10.8 percent for girls and 26.2 percent for SC children since 1995 (the starting year of the project).
Preliminary fmdings of the second round of assessment studies in 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh carried out at the end of 1995 indicate
improvements in language (word knowledge and reading comprehension) as well as in mathematics (see deatils in Annex 2A of the
PAD of the Second Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project). In addition, the DPEP Bureau has commissioned the second round of
learning achievement studies of the DPEP I states as part of the mid-term review of October 1997. The results of these studies will be
made available to IDA by the end of CY98 through the JSM. To capture changes in retention it is necessary to get at least three years
data. The EMIS has been operational only since the 1995-96 school year, therefore it will be possible to calculate retention data in
DPEP districts once the 1997-98 data is compiled in 1998. The results of these fmdings will be made available to IDA by the end of
CY98 through the JSM.
The most important qualitative lessons from ongoing education projects in India (BEP and the total literacy campaign in Bihar, the
DFID-assisted project in Andhra Pradesh, and the Lok Jumbish project in Rajasthan), as well as recent international experience in
primary education include: (i) the importance of strengthening management structures and staffing skills, providing quality early
childhood education, textbooks and learning materials and in-service teacher training; (ii) the relevance of providing such quality
learning inputs in clusters of primary schools around resource centers; (iii) the value of enhanced community participation in the
operation of schools, monitoring of teacher and student attendance, and school construction and maintenance; (iv) the significance of
women's empowerment as a pivotal strategy to create favorable conditions for the enhancement of primary education; and (v) the need
to plan and manage education in a decentralized manner involving state, district and sub-district stakeholders, especially to maintain
the quality of the services provided when the project goes to scale. In terms of the implementation of educational investments, these
experiences have shown the importance of: (a) installing adequate management arrangements at the state and district levels in a timely
fashion; (b) ensuring stability of the core state and district management staff; (c) ensuring the timely provision of funds at the
operational level; (d) paying appropriate attention to logistics, procurement and the maintenance of school buildings; (e) using new
construction initiatives comprising use of cost-effective construction materials and techniques, and employment of consultant
architects and an SIS cadre to assure appropriate designs and to promote quality control during the construction process; and (f)
making the qualitative aspects of the investments paramount.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership: To tackle the enormous educational challenges faced by the GOI, a
Revised National Policy on Education and an accompanying National Program of Action were approved by the GOI and the states in
1992. The Policy gives priority to improving the quality of primary education and reducing disparities in enrollment, dropout rates,
and learning achievement by gender and among social groups. Consistent with this Policy, the GOI, in close consultation with the
states, established the District Primary Education Program (DPEP) in 1993 as a centrally sponsored program of financial and technical



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 9
Country: India                                                                                  Project itle: DPEP III
assistance to the states and districts for primary education reform. Under the umbrella of the DPEP and related actions, GOI has
worked very closely with the thirteen DPEP Project States over the last four years in preparing and implementing over US$1.2 billion
worth of educational investments in about 122 socially disadvantaged districts. There has been widespread participation of research
institutions, officials, communities and NGOs in the project design and implementation processes of these investments. According to
the latest IDA supervision reports, these investments are meeting their qualitative aims to a large extent and have been rated
"satisfactory". In addition, GOI has expressed its commitment to increase education spending from the current 3.7 of GDP to 6
percent by the end of the Ninth Plan (2002). Spending on higher education has been tightly curbed in recent years to less than 13
percent of total public education expenditure in India: In spite of Bihar's consistent fiscal deficit, its record in paying its teachers and
contributing its share in the BEP is actually quite good. GOI and BEP's accumulated learnig experiences have been used to assist
GOB prepare DPEP III.
12. Value added of Bank support: The Bank is one of the few donor agencies with the capability to provide the key technical advice
and financial support necessary to assist in the implementation of education programs on a large scale. IDA has been instrumental in
mobilizing financial and technical support from other donors into the sector. IDA has also provided a lead role in designing and
operationalizing joint supervision mechanisms whereby a group of educational and management professionals nominated by the
donors supporting DPEP and GOI review implementation progress twice a year (in March and October). IDA provides education
specialists and managers from participating DPEP States and GOI with a much appreciated exposure to the educational innovations of
other developing countries which are relevant to the Indian context. Finally, IDA plays a key role in providing continued technical
and financial support which are essential to ensure that the potential benefits of the past educational investments come to fruition.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See also Annex 4)
13. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4): The social and economic impact of investment in primary schooling in India has been
extensively documented in departmental economic and sector work (ESW) recently published as Primary Education in India in the
Bank's Development in Practice Series. Recerit survey data on schooling and social outcomes such as fertility and health and
nutritional status support two general conclusions: (i) the relationship between education attainment and social outcomes is very strong;
and (ii) the impact on an individual's behavior is greater the more extensive the coverage of primary schooling across the population.
The impact on economic outcomes is less well documented and relies much on data collected over a decade ago. However, rate of
return studies show relatively high returns to primary schooling (13-15 percent) and studies of farmer productivity in areas of
agricultural growth demonstrate much higher returns for the labor of primary school graduates than for the unschooled. There is also
evidence of spillover effects from the schooled to the unschooled.
Only part of the social and economic outcomes of primary schooling accrue to the individual and his/her own family. If all of the costs
of schooling were to be borne privately, the investment would be below that required to optimize the returns to society. This is one
justification for public expenditure on primary schooling. Children of poor families would not attend school at the same rate as
children of richer families if all of the costs had to be borne by the household.
As in all states, the 1992/93 National Family Health Survey (NFHS) for Bihar documents the strong impact of primary schooling for
girls on social outcomes, such as actual and desired fertility, child health and nutritional status as follows: (a) the desired number of
children for illiterate women is 3.6 compared to 3.1 for women with primary schooling; (b) the infant and child mortality rates for
children with illiterate mothers are 103 and 50 per thousand, respectively, while for children with primary schooled mothers they are 80
and 29 per thousand; (c) the rate of complete vaccinations for children with illiterate mothers is 5 percent compared to 21 percent for
children with primary schooled mothers; and (d) 34 percent of children with illiterate mothers are severely malnourished compared to
26 percent of children with primary schooled mothers.
The second general conclusion of the NFHS also holds true for Bihar: while each successive level of schooling has a strong impact, that
impact is less in states with low enrollment ratios than in states with a wider coverage of education. Overall, the social indicators for
Bihar describe a very disadvantaged population. Illiteracy and under-5 mortality rates in Bihar are the second highest across all states
while the rate of severe child malnourishment is highest and the proportion of vaccinated children is the lowest.
The poor social conditions in Bihar are accompanied by severe material poverty. The majority of the population is extremely poor,
even by Indian standards. In 1993/94, 64 percent of households were below the poverty line compared to the national average of 36
percent, translating to around 66 million people with access to less than Rs. 33 (US$1) a day. Each of Bihar's three agro-climatic
regions is among the poorest six regions in the country. Among the major states, the growth rate of mean consumption and reduction
in poverty between 1957/58 and 1990/91 was the lowest in Bihar. While the incidence of poverty has been reduced by one third across
the country (and by one half in Kerala), in Bihar there has been little decrease in four decades.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 10
Country: India                                                                                     Project Trde: DPEP IlIl
Recent Bank research has investigated the causes of differences between levels and changes in living standards and poverty across
Indian states. The differences in farm yields, inflation and development expenditures, initial conditions in both physical infrastructure
and human resource development were found to have significant effects. Almost half of the differential in the decline in the poverty
gap between Bihar and Kerala over a 35-year period could be attributed to the difference in the initial level of human resource
development. Bihar currently has the seconi lowest literacy rate and the lowest primary enrollment rate. Unless steps are taken to
expand schooling, widespread poverty will remain and the gap between Bihar and the rest of the country will widen.
The low enrollment ratio in Bihar is accompanied by a high dropout rate of around 65 percent. This is inefficient The prevailing
dropout and repetition rates result in resources for 8.1 years of schooling being required to produce one graduate of the primary five-
year cycle. Sixty percent more resources are being used per graduate than would be necessary in a situation of no dropout or repetition.
A principal objective of the project is to increase the quality of schooling and to induce a higher retention rate. Reducing dropout and
repetition rates by half could result in savings of US$40 million a year across the state or around US$20 million in the 17 project
disticts.
Baseline studies of primary school achievement and its determinants have been carried out for Uttar Pradesh and DPEP states since
1992. Among those factors positively influencing achievement are instructional time, student and teacher attendance, physical
facilities, appropriate instructional materials for teachers and students, the hiring of better educated teachers and the school's academic
climate. The specific effective interventions in each of these areas differ between states and between districts. Similarly, the attempted
analyses to identify the most cost-effective interventions again demonstrated local variations. Packages of interventions identified
locally to meet the needs of specific schools are more likely to be more cost effective than uniform packages. One of the strengths of
the DPEP, and this project, is that the development of broad strategies is the responsibility of district level personnel while many of the
specific interventions and expenditures are decided by local communities, village education committees and headteachers.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annexes 4 and 5)  NPV=US$199.7 million
The total cost of the project is estimated at Rs. 8,213.3 million or US$199.7 million equivalent including taxes and duties estimated at
US$9 million equivalent (Table 3.1). The direct and indirect foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$7.9 million. In the investment
cost dimension, the project would fnance civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, books and libraries, teaching materials,
consultant services, information campaigns, training, workshops and fellowships. In the recurrent cost dimension, the project would
finance salaries of additional staff, operational expenses, maintenance of vehicles and equipment purchased with project funds,
honoraria to non-salaried workers involved primarily with non-formal educational programs, and salaries of incremnental staff, all on a
declining basis (80%, 80%, 55%, 55% and 35% respectively).
In all categories of costs, estimates are based largely on the actual experience for similar work now underway as a part of DPEP I and
II. Estimated costs for civil works reflect current unit costs for construction at approximately US$135 per square meter, and costs for
furniture, equipment, vehicles, books and teaching materials are based on purchase prices in neighboring districts under the DPEP I and
II programs. Estimated costs for the salaries of additional staff are based on the basic pay scales, including standard allowances for
social and other benefits applicable in the state of Bihar.
All imported goods are subject to customs duties and taxes. The estimated cost of the project includes import duties and taxes valued at
about US$9 million equivalent. The estimated foreign exchange component of US$7.9 million is calculated on the basis of estimated
foreign exchange proportions as follows: (a) civil works, 9%; (b) equipment, 25%; (c) books and library materials, 5%; (d) locally
manufactured vehicles, 25%; (e) incremental operating costs, 5%; and (f) equipment maintenance, 5%.
Estimated project costs include physical contingencies (US$14.5 million) estimated at 10%  for civil works and all physical
components, and 5% for all salaries, technical assistance, training and maintenance items. The estimated costs of the project also
include price contingencies (US$4.3 million) to account for expected price escalation at the following rates: (i) for foreign costs 2.2%
in CY98, 2.6% in CY99, 2.8% in CYOO, 2.6% in CY01, 2.5% in CY02 and 2.3% in CY03; and (ii) for local costs 6.7% in CY98, 6.5%
in CY99, 6.0% in CYOO, 6.0% in CYO 1, 6.0% in CY02 and 6.0% in CY03.
The project would be financed by an IDA Credit of US$152.0 million. It is also anticipated that UNICEF would provide DPEP III with
a grant of US$10.0 million. The IDA portion of the financing arrangements amounts to about 80 percent of the total project costs net
of taxes. The combined contributions of IDA and UNICEF would amount to 85 percent of the total project costs net of taxes. GOB
would contribute 15 percent of total project cost (US$28.7 million). GOI/GOB would also contribute all duties and taxes (US$9
million). The yearly breakdown of the total project cost by investment and recurrent expenditures, as well as the yearly fmancing
sources as a percentage of total project costs are shown in Table 5.1 in Annex 5. The Credit would be made available to GOI on



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 11
Country: India                                                                                    Project Title: DPEP III
standard terms and conditions and made available to the GOB as a grant.
15. Technical Assessment: DPEP III has been conceived and prepared based on the UPBEP, DPEP I and II projects. In all these
ongoing Credits, the following two technical objectives are worth highlighting: (i) the sustained progress towards the implementation
on a large scale of project-financed activities for improved pedagogy and enhanced learning achievement (such as child-centered
teaching and activity-based learning); and (ii) the introduction of specific interventions to reach girls, working children, students with
mild-to- moderate disabilities, ST and SC students and other children who have limited access to educational opportunities, especially
those living in remote rural habitations, to increase their regular attendance to school and thus their school retention. These two
objectives are in effect not notably different in Bihar than in any of the other 13 DPEP Project States.
Changes in classroom practices and student-teacher transaction are slow to become observable. While the thrust of the DPEP-based
pedagogical renewal is well focused, it needs to be deepened if it is to result in lasting change. In addition, teachers ought to be
provided with practical diagnostic instruments to enable periodic student progress assessment in the classroom during the school year.
Specific interventions to reach the socially disadvantaged groups will emerge from the social assessment studies that each DPEP III
district carried out during project preparation under TORs agreed with IDA. These studies, completed at the pre-appraisal stage,
include relevant information for designing specific activities, some similar in nature to those already proven effective under DPEP and
BEP. The challenge is to take such strategies to scale and make them work in the very difficult context of Bihar.
16. Institutional Assessment: Two issues are of particular concern: one pertaining to the project's management; the other involving
the project's pedagogical renewal dimension. Previous sector investments in India have required a considerable start-up time to build
effective state, district, sub-district and school managerial and professional capacity for sustainable primary education development.
Measures to ensure timely project implementation launch and to accelerate building managerial and professional capacity in DPEP III
districts were reviewed by the IDA appraisal mission and are described in para. 4 and Annex 2. Concerning pedagogical renewal,
SCERT and DIETs in participating districts have proven to be institutions in need of strengthening, often understaffed and/or staffed
with faculty with little experience in primary education. The effort to build capacity of these institutions was discussed at appraisal.
During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will: (a) maintain the SCERT and SIEMAT with responsibilities to coordinate
project implementation with adequate staff, resources and facilities by the end of June 1998, and establish a program of staff training
satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4 and 24(e) and Annex 2); and (b) establish and maintain DIETs (sanctioned by GOI) or equivalent
institutions in project districts and appoint key staff at such DIETs in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to IDA by December 31,
1998 (para. 24(f) and Annex 2). In order not to delay the in-service teacher training activities, state and district resource groups (SRG
and DRGs) are being established in the SLO and each DLO to carry out these activities, gradually integrating them with the SCERT
and DIETs. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that by December 31, 1998, it will cause the BSPP to establish technical
resource groups at the state level and project district levels to assist in the development and implementation of the project (para. 24(i)
and Annex 2).
17. Social Assessment: The National Education Policy and the DPEP implementation program have as priority objectives to reduce
disparities in access, completion and learning achievement in primary school among girls, SC and ST students and other children who
have limited access to educational opportunities. In addition, DPEP III will address the issue of working children. Several project
districts have high concentrations of SC population requiring tailored-made strategies. The districts have prepared draft AWPBs in
accordance with information gathered in the social assessment studies (SAS) required as part of project preparation. The state and five
district AWPBs.were appraised by the IDA mission. Each DPEP III district carried out SASs in 18 villages selected on the basis of their
size and composition of population. The study conducted in each village adopted the Participatory Rural Appraisal Technique to collect
primary data. A total of about 1,800 meetings were held in 306 villages involving about 300,000 village participants (between 100 to 200
people per village per meeting). Household heads, women, teachers, and village authorities participated in the focus group meetings
required in carrying out the SASs which were completed by pre-appraisal. The SAS results have served the dual purpose of: (i)
highlighting the general and specific issues affecting the education of the socially disadvantaged groups of children; and (ii) orienting the
community in the basic requirements of planning for the educational development of the village. These results will be the basis for
designing and piloting, during the first two years of project implementation, district-tailored strategies to address these issues. In addition,
the high female illiteracy rate prevailing in Bihar has slowed down the school enrollment of girls, the reduction of fertility and infant
and child mortality rates and delayed an increase in nutritional status, infant vaccinations and use of modern contraceptive methods. To
address the high female illiteracy level in Bihar, the project will support convergence and expansion of the MS (women empowerment)
program, currently operating in 26 blocks of the seven BEP districts.
18. Environmental Assessment:                 Environmental [X] C
Category



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 12
Country: India                                                                                        Project Tite: DPEP IIl
The project would not raise any environmental concerns. GOB has furnished to IDA an official document dated June 10, 1997 (in the
Project's File) confirming that no involuntary resettlement issues will arise from implementing the civil works component of the Credit
in the DPEP III districts and explaining how the districts will secure this land. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that no
involuntary resettlements will arise from any use of land, or change of land use for the Project, except to the extent that IDA agrees in
writing prior to such resettlement that the arrangements for such involuntary resettlement are satisfactory to IDA (para. 24(i)). In
addition, the Bihar laws provide for the maintenance of transfer deeds documents at the District offices.
........... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19. Participatory Approach:                    Identification/Preparation   Inplementation          Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups        IS/CON             IS/CON/COL              IS/CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs        IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL              IS/CON/COL
Academic institutions        IS/CON            IS/CON/COL               IS/CON/COL
Local government       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL               IS/CON/COL
Other donors       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL              IS/CON/COL
[Information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL)]
Popular participation is a cornerstone of DPEP. Like DPEP I and II, SASs under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA were required as
part of project preparation in each DPEP In district. In addition, documented participatory meetings involving women, SC and ST parents,
teachers, NGOs and local officials were held during the preparation of DPEP Im at the district, block and community levels for
consultations on problems facing primary education and likely solutions in Bihar. To carry out the district-based baseline assessment
studies (BAS), about 5,600 students of class I, 3,200 of class IV, 800 dropouts and 1,150 primary education teachers were selected by
simple random sampling in 45 schools per district. The schools were selected on the basis of "multipharic" sample design. Paragraph 17
above descnbes the participatory scheme for carrying out the district-based SASs. Focus group discussions comprising 100- 200 people
per village were held as part of the gender and tribal studies. Strengthened community/school organizations in all states and districts
through the VECs are already providing a mechanism for continuing beneficiary participation in program implementation. One example of
such participation is the involvement of communities in the formulation of AWPBs. Another example would be the establishment, through
the VECs, of a reliable data base of teacher and student attendance at schooL During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that by
December 31, 1998, it will establish for all schools in each project district VECs with responsibility for assisting with project
implementation (para. 24(h)).
20. Sustainability: Public finances in Bihar need to become more efficient (Annex 4). In the immediate future, high interest payment
obligations and constraints on further borrowing are likely to result in a continuation of recent trends which have led to low and falling
levels of capital expenditures, a falling share of development expenditures in total expenditures and overall increases in development
expenditures at a rate below population growth. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data show a small decline in education expenditures
at constant prices between 1990/91 and 1995/96, while GOB data suggests an increase of around one percent a year. Overall,
education expenditures are 23 percent of total revenue expenditures. Expenditure on elementary education has increased at a slightly
higher rate (around 2.5 percent a year) than for education as a whole taking 69 percent of the total in 1995/96 compared to 66 percent
in 1990/91. In 1995/96, about 99 percent of the combined plan and non-plan expenditure on elementary education was for pay and
allowances. Total expenditure on primary schooling (grades I-V) is roughly 60 percent of all elementary education expenditures and
equal to Rs. 785 crores in 1995/96 (Annex 4). Plan expenditures on elementary education over the past six years have averaged Rs. 30
crores a year.
The annual state project contribution would average about US$7.6 million (Rs. 26 crores), representing a 3.4 percent increase over the
1995/96 level of total primary education expenditure (2 percent of total elementary education expenditure). Maintenance of past
trends in education expenditure should be just sufficient to ensure that counterpart funding would be manageable. Further, it
has been argued that the tied allocations to backward states for the GOI's Common Minimnum Program (amounting to Rs. 227 crores
for Bihar in 1997/98) could be used. However, counterpart funding will not be the only incremental financial obligation for the GOB.
In the project districts there are 10,290 teacher vacancies which are required to be filled as a condition of the project. This will add
around Rs. 50 crores a year to the budget. Filling these vacancies and providing the counterpart funding will require the equivalent of
a trebling of plan expenditures. Further, the GOB plans to fill an additional 22,000 teacher vacancies in non-project districts with an
estimated annual cost of Rs. 110 crores. In all, GOB will need to allocate an extra Rs. 186 crores a year during project implementation
(Rs. 26 crores as counterpart funding, Rs. 50 crores for filling vacancies in project districts and Rs. 110 crores in non-project districts),
equivalent to around 14 percent of current expenditure on elementary education. In spite of the state's fiscal position, the Ministry of
Finance of GOB has authorized the Bihar Public Service Commission to advertise and fill all the vacant posts. GOB has assured IDA
that this teacher posting process will be completed by January 1, 1999. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will take
all necessary measures to ensure that at least 95 percent of the teacher's posts in the project districts, starting the third year of the
project, will remain filled throughout the project implementation period (paras. 21 and 24(g) and Annexes 2 and 4);



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 13
Country: India                                                                                     Project Tif0e: DPEP lIl
Sustaining project activities following project completion in March 2003 will require incremental expenditures estimated at Rs 49.6
crores (UJS$14.2 million equivalent). This is equal to 6.4 percent of the 1995/96 expenditure on primary education and should not
alone be problematic. More of an issue is the ability of GOB to sustain the overall system with only a minimal level of teacher
vacancies without which the long-run benefits of the project would not accrue. The overall trends in public finances in Bihar are
disturbing. Both revenue receipts and expenditures have been falling as a share of state domestic product, and development
expenditures per capita have also been declining, though more in economic services than in social services. Interest payments are equal
to 27 percent of all tax revenues and state non-tax revenues. The ability of GOB to sustain both the existing educational base and
project activities will depend on future developments in its overall public finances, including center-state resource transfers. The
commitments given by GOB during project preparation, the intention of GOI to ensure that total education expenditures increase from
3.7 to 6 percent of GDP by the end of the Ninth Plan, and the recent directive of the Supreme Court to government to implement
universal elementary education, suggest that the financial risk of the project is worth taking in the context of a state which has the
highest incidence of poverty, severe child malnutrition, and the second highest level of illiteracy and under five year-old children
mortality across all states. The agreement by GOB to prepare modalities for ensuring the post-project sustainability of each component
and to discuss these with IDA during the second in-depth review in December 2001 (see paras. 4, 21 and 24(b) and Annex 2) should
also increase the likelihood of project and system sustainability.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Aisk                   Risk Rating                     Risk Minimization Measure
The status of public finances and competing  H       The use of the BSPP for flow of funds.
demands for state resources may affect the           The strong role played by the DPEP Bureau in ensuring state
availability of state funds for education            governments' annual contributions of 15% of total project cost.
during project implementation and following          During negotiations, GOI and GOB provided assurances that the second
its completion.                                      in-depth review to be carried out by 12/31/01 with IDA and other
external financiers of DPEP, including UNICEF, will comprise a status
report of the proposed strategies to sustain the capacities and services
developed under the project (paras. 4, 20 and 24(b) and Annex 2).
During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will take all
necessary measures to ensure that at least 95 percent of teachers' posts in
the project districts, starting the third year of the project, remain filled
throughout the project implementation period (paras. 4, 20 and 24(g) and
Annexes 2 and 4).
Project components to outputs
ik                     Risk Rating                     Risk Miuimization Measure
There are increasing difficulties in efficiently    L to M    Intensive training would be provided to VECs.
managing a large-scale construction program.
There may be state opposition to bring the   L to M    Using student attendance data, specific agreements are proposed for: (i)
student/teacher ratio in line with the state         filling all teacher vacancies in project districts; (ii) sanctioning additional
norm of 50:1, and allow for a more rational          teacher posts in project district to lower the student teacher ratio to the
teacher deployment policy.                           state-norm of 50: 1; and (iii) rationalizing teacher deployment.
On the basis of current data, community-     L       Incorporation of health-related matters in the renewed pedagogy.
specific cultural patterns in some villages          Convergence with other health-related programs in the community.
may forestall students' use of toilet facilities
financed by the project.
Weaknesses in state and district professional  M     State and district technical resource groups, including skilled personnel
resource institutions (SCERT, DIETs) may             from SCERT and DIETs, will initiate quality improvement activities at
slow down the quality improvement efforts.          the same time that resource institutions are being strengthened.
Irregular teacher attendance may jeopardize          VECs will monitor teacher attendance to school.
quality improvement efforts.
Overall project risk rating                  M
22. Possible Controversial Aspects: None. So far, no opposition to the project has been identified. The participatory nature of
project preparation will allow such issues to be identified and appropriately addressed, if they ever arise.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 14
Country: India                                                                                     Project Tls: DPEP lil
Block 4: Main Credit Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions: None
24. Other Conditions: At negotiations. GOT and GOB provided assurances that they shall:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to IDA, the carrying out of the project and achievement of the objectives thereof (para. 4);
(b) carry out with IDA and other extemal financiers of DPEP, including UNICEF, a joint in-depth review of the project on two
occasions by December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001, which will include: (i) a status report, in both reviews, of the positioning of
teachers in project districts based on Bihar's norms; and (ii) a status report, in the latter review, of the proposed strategies to sustain the
capacities and services developed under the project, and the modalities and framework of cooperation between the Borrower's
Integrated Child Development and ECEs under the project (paras. 4, 20 and 21 and Annex 2); and
(c) duly take into account the comments offered by IDA during each joint review in the course of further implementation of the
project.
At negotiations. GOB provided assurances that it shall:
(d) carry out, and cause the BSPP to carry out, the Project in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and the PIP agreed with IDA (para.
4 and Annex 2);
(e) (i) maintain the SLO, DLOs, SCERT and SIEMAT with responsibilities to coordinate project implementation with adequate staff,
resources and facilities by the end of June 1998; and (ii) establish a program of staff training satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4 and 16 and
Annex 2);
(f) establish and maintain DIETs (sanctioned by GOI) or equivalent institutions in project districts and appoint key staff at such DIETs
in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1998 (para. 16 and Annex 2);
(g) take all necessary measures to ensure that at least 95 percent of the teachers' posts in the project districts, starting the third year of
the project, remain filled throughout the project implementation period (paras. 4, 20 and 21 and Annex 2);
(h) by December 31, 1998, establish for all schools in each project district, VECs with responsibility for assisting with project
implementation (para. 19 and Annex 2);
(i) by December 31, 1998, cause the BSPP to establish technical resource groups at the state level and project district levels, to assist in
the development and implementation of the project (para. 16 and Annex 2);
(j) cause the BSPP to establish by December 31, 1999, in an appropriate number of sample of villages in each project district, a reliable
education database of: (i) the number of public, private recognized and non-recognized schools through microplanning exercises to be
conducted by the VECs; and (ii) the best estimates of teacher and student attendance in such schools through the establishment of
attendance reporting mechanisms by the VECs and the EMIS (para. 4 and Annex 2);
(k) carry out assessment studies on student learning achievement in all the project districts, with scope and content satisfactory to IDA,
in calendar years 2000 and 2002 (para. 4 and Annex 2);
(1) ensure that no involuntary resettlements arise from any use of land or change of land use for the Project, except to the extent that
IDA agrees in writing prior to such resettlement that the anrangements for such involuntary resettlement are satisfactory to IDA (para.
18);.
(m) (i) implement the project in accordance with strategies acceptable to IDA for improving primary education of female students; (ii)
implement the project in any tribal area (as designated by GOB in accordance with applicable state laws) in accordance with
procedures and delivery strategies satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) ensure that all investments in project districts which are classified by
the Borrower as tribal districts, or which include blocks classified by the Borrower as tribal blocks, are appraised and implemented in
accordance with a plan satisfactory to IDA for the delivery of project benefits to tribal people (Annex 2); and
(n) select non-governmental and community organizations participating in the project in accordance with criteria and procedures
satisfactory to IDA (Annex 2).
Disbursement Condition: (o) During negotiations, GOT agreed that no withdrawals of the Credit proceeds will be made in respect of
payments in or with respect to GOB until BSPP has entered into a MOU with GOI satisfactory to IDA (para. 4 and Annex 2).
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complie  ith all applicable Bank policies.
Te          r: Juan Prawda                                 Cou"DirectorEdwinR



Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision  Critical Assumptions (CA)
and Risks (R)
CAS Objective: Improve the  Literacy rates, especially of    Census data.          (R) There is considerable
quality, effectiveness and  women.                                                  uncertainty regarding the
service delivery of India's                             Household survey data.      stability of the UF government
social and anti-poverty    Years of education completed                             and its ability to follow
programs, particularly at the    by the population of 15 years   Economic and Sector Work.   through a credible program of
state-level, where primary  and over, disaggregated by                              fiscal adjustment and reform.
responsibility resides.     gender.
(CA) Expected economic and
social benefits might not
materialize because of low
quality of schooling.
Project Development         Increase in the percent of  National Educational        (R) Lower than anticipated
Objectives: Assist the GOB    people in the 11-15 and 16-20   Statistics.           state growth rate may affect
to build and strengthen state,   age groups by the                                  the financial sustainability of
district and sub-district   disadvantaged groups (female,  Census Data.             the long-term implementation
institutional capacity to ensure  SC, ST, working children,                         of the project, thus preventing
that more children, especially  children with learning  Household Surveys.          poor people from putting their
from socially disadvantaged    disabilities and other children                      enhanced literacy skills to
groups, complete primary   who have limited access to   Educational Management      productive use.
education of appropriate   educational opportunities)  Information System (EMIS).
quality in low literacy    with completed primary
districts.                 education.
Project Outputs:
1. Expanded access to      1. About 400,000 additional    1. EMIS; and VECs         (CA) More accessible
primary education,          children in the age group 6-10  attendance reporting    education facilities, increased
particularly for disadvantaged  years, especially from the  mechanism.              retention, improved quality of
groups.                    disadvantaged groups, will be                            instruction and community
enrolled from 2000 onwards.                             mobilization result in
increased demand for
2. Increased retention and  2.1 Compared to 1998 data,    2.1 Same as 1 above,      education among
improved leaming           and from 2001 onwards: (i)                              impoverished groups.
achievement in primary     the attendance rate will
schools.                   improve by 50 percent; (ii)                              (R) Competing demands on
about 660,000 more children                             state resources may affect
per year would attend school                            availability of funds for
on a regular basis during the                           education, further hampering
entire school year; (iii) the                           meeting increased demand
retention rate will improve by                          generated by project
15 percent; and (iv) about                              interventions.
330,000 additional children
will graduate from the five-
year primary cycle.
2.2 Compared with the 1997    2.2 Baseline and periodic
baseline assessments, the  leaming achievement surveys
achievement scores with    in the third and fifth year of
respect to language and math   project implementation. Two
by type of disadvantaged   in-depth review studies by
group (to be measured in 2000  12/31/99 and 12/31/01.
and 2002) will improve.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
3. Improved state and district  3. By June 30, 1998, the SLO   3. Quality of annual state and
capacity to manage primary    and 17 DLOs would be fully   district AWPBs.
education.                 functional. Every year from
1998 to 2003, the SLO and all
DLOs will prepare sound and
implementable annual state
and district-based AWPBs.
Project Components:
1.1 Constructing new       1. I By the end of 2000, 2,350   1.1 Annual Project     1.1 (R) Difficulties in
classrooms and schools, and    new schools and 4,400 new  Management Information   efficiently managing a large-
repairing or rehabilitating  classrooms would have been    System (PMIS) reports.  scale construction program.
existing classrooms.       constructed and about 300
classrooms would have been
repaired and/or rehabilitated.
1.2 Sanctioning new teaching   1.2 By the end of 2000, about   1.2 Annual EMIS and PMIS    1.2 (CA) Brings the student
posts and appointing teachers.  5,700 new teachers would  reports; regular attendance  /teacher ratio in line with the
have been appointed.       reporting mechanisms through  state norm of 50:1; and allows
the VECs; and sample surveys. for a more rational teacher
deployment policy.
(R) There may be state
opposition to this measure.
1.3 Developing and         1.3 Number of targeted      1.3 Annual EMIS and PMIS    1.3 (CA) Targeted
implementing interventions    interventions designed and  reports.                interventions address the
for socially disadvantaged  trialed. By the end of 2002,                           social patterns of access and
groups.                    about 8,000 alternative schools                         exclusion to schooling of the
would have been opened.                                disadvantaged groups
identified in the district-based
social assessment studies; and
alternative schooling result in
levels of learning equivalent to
those in the formal system.
1.4 Mobilizing school and  1.4 Number of awareness     1.4 Annual EMIS and PMIS    1.4 and 1.5 (CA) Communities
community organizations and  campaigns carried out.   reports; progress reports; and   are best fit to effectively
carrying out awareness                                field visits by joint supervision  address locally specific issues
campaigns in support of                                missions (iSMs).            of school access and retention.
education.                                                                         Community support can be
sustained for several years.
1.5 Establishing a VEC for  1.5 By 12/31/98, about 32,000  1.5 Annual EMIS and PMIS
each school in the project  VECs would have been       reports; progress reports; and
districts.                 established. By the end of  field visits by the JSMs.
2002, about 10,000 five-day
training events for VECs
members would have been
provided.
2.1 Selectively establishing    2.1 By the end of 2002, about  2.1 Annual EMIS and PMIS    2.1 (CA) Early childhood
new, and strengthening     700 ECEs would have been    reports.                    stimulation raises the readiness
existing, ECEs.            opened.                                                 levels required to perform
adequately in the first grades
of primary education and
reduces harmful effects of late
entry.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
2.2 Supporting interventions   2.2 Number of women's    2.2 Annual PMIS reports;    2.2 (CA) Empowered mothers
for women's education and  groups that have created an  progress reports; field visits by  from the poorest segments of
empowerment programs.       enabling self-reliance     the JSMs.                    society will increase accepting
environment to sustain their                           the value of education and will
empowerment activities.                                 send and keep their children,
especially girls, in school.
2.3 Installing toilets and water  2.3 By the end of 2002, about  2.3 Annual EMIS and PMIS    2.3 (CA) Availability of toilets
facilities in the primary   7,600 toilets and 8,100 water   reports.                increases girls retention at
schools.                    facilities would have been                              school. (R) Community-
provided.                                               specific cultural patterns may
forestall students' use of toilet
facilities.
2.4 Establishing and operating  2.4 By the end of 1999, 206    2.4 Annual PMIS reports; field  2.4 (CA) CRCs are enabling
BRCs and CRCs.              BRCs and 2,476 CRCs would   visits by the JSMs.         enviromnents for teachers'
be fully operational.                                   self-reflection and action to
improve pedagogical practices.
2.5 Providing continuous in-   2.5 About 100,000 teachers    2.5 Annual PMIS reports;  2.5 (R) Weaknesses in state
service teacher training.  will receive 10 days of training  Classroom observations;  and district professional
per year during the period  External evaluations;       resource institutions (SCERT,
1999 - 2002.               Institutional visits; JSMs.  DIETs) may slow down
quality improvement efforts.
2.6 Developing and supplying  2.6 By March 2001, titles for   2.6 Annual PMIS reports;  2.6 Same as above.
improved textbooks and     classes I to V in language,  classroom observations;
supplementary instructional    math and EVS in Hindi, Urdu,  external evaluations.
materials.                  Bangla, Oriya and Tribal
languages would have been
developed and trialed.
2.7 Providing grants to     2.7 Number of schools and   2.7 PMIS and JSMs.          2.7 (CA) This grant scheme
schools, community         teachers in project districts                           induces participation and
organizations and individual   receiving Rs. 2,000 and Rs.                          ownership of teachers and
teachers for the purchase of    500, respectively, per year.                        communities in the crusade for
educational supplies and other                                                      improving the quality of
quality inputs.                                                                     education.
2.8 Carrying out periodic   2.8 Item analysis results of the  2.8 Baseline assessment study.  2.8 (CA) Educational
learning assessment of     assessment studies to be                                 authorities could detect
primary level students.     carried out in 2000 and 2002.                           curricular skills not being
mastered by students and
apply corrective and/or
preventive pedagogical
measures.
3.1 Building and           3.1 By 6/30/98, the SLO and    3.1 AWPBs; JSMs.          3.1 (CA) Decentralizing
strengthening state and district  17 DLOs would be fully                            operational tasks to the district
program management         staffed with full-time qualified                         and sub-district levels of
structures (SLO, DLOs).     personnel and operational.                              decision making will allow the
states to focus mainly on
strategic and state educational
policy issues. Interest to learn
from other state and/or
worldwide experiences.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
intensifies;
Transfer of key managerial
staff at state and district levels
are minimized.
3.2 Establishing and       3.2 By 6/30/98, the staffing of  3.2 AWPBs; JSMs; progress    3.2 See (R) in 2.5 above.
strengthening state and district SCERT and SIEMAT with  reports.
resource institutions and/or    full-time qualified personnel
groups (SCERT, SIEMAT,    would be substantially
BSTPC and DIETs or         completed. By 2002,
equivalent institutions).  improved BSTPC efficiency in
textbook production for
socially disadvantaged
students in project districts.
By 12/31/98 the: (i) staffing of
the DIETs sanctioned by GOI
or equivalent institutions with
full-time qualified personnel
would be substantially
completed; and (ii) state and
17 district technical resource
groups would have been
established.
3.3 Strengthening state and  3.3 Number of project-related   3.3 Research reports.
district capacity for carrying    studies completed.
out monitoring, research and
evaluation activities.
3.4 Establishing a facility to    3.4 Number of innovations  3.4 Annual PMIS reports; field  3.4 (CA) Provides an
support innovative approaches  field tested.            visits by the JSMs.         environment to test
to improve primary education.                                                       innovations before they are
taken to scale.
3.5 Developing training    3.5 Number of training       3.5 Annual PMIS reports.    3.5 (CA) Ownership of project
modules for microplanning,    modules developed and                                 innovations is induced by
VEC training and training of   imnplemented for                                     empowerment
master trainers.           microplanning and VEC
training and number of
training programs provided to
master trainers.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Capitalizing on the experience gained by the ongoing DPEP I and II IDA Credits (Credits 2661-IN and 2876-IN), the Uttar Pradesh
Basic Education Credit (Credit 2509-IN) and the recently published ESW (Primary Education in India), the project would assist the
DOE/GOI to extend DPEP into 17 educational (27 revenue) socially disadvantaged districts in Bihar. Like the Uttar Pradesh
Education Project, DPEP I and II, the project would build state, district and sub-district4 level managerial and professional capacity
for the sustainable development of primary education in the project districts, and would support district-based activities aimed at
ensuring that more children, especially from socially disadvantaged groups, complete a five-year primary education cycle of
appropriate quality in low literacy districts. At negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it shall carry out, and cause the BSPP to
carry out, the project in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and the PIP agreed with IDA (paras. 4 and 24(d)).
Scope and Approach: The specific investment Credit, with a strong degree of program and policy content, is designed to continue
providing program support to GOI and GOB for the development of primary education in Bihar, with the DPEP Bureau operating as
the national management authority which appraises the state and district AWPBs. The project has been prepared based on the
experience gained by the BEP project in 7 districts. The project would finance program expansion in the 7 BEP districts plus 10
additional non-BEP districts (see page 9 of this Annex). All 17 educational (27 revenue) districts, with the exception of one BEP
district (Purbi Singhbhum), have an average female literacy rate below the national average (39.1 percent). To assist the
implementation of DPEP III in Bihar, further strengthening of the national management structure will be financed under DPEP I and
II, including the establishment of a national distance education program to assist in-service teacher programs in DPEP Project States
(including Bihar). Additional support for the DPEP III in the form of a grant has been confirmed by UNICEF through a parallel
financing arrangement.
Project Description: The project will have three components: (a) Expanding access to primary education, particularly for
disadvantaged groups; (b) increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary school; and (c) improving state and
district capacity to manage primary education.
Project Component 1 - Expanding access to primary education, particularly for disadvantaged groups (US$103.6 million,
including contingencies; 51.9 percent of total project cost). This component includes the following five sub-components:
Constructing new classrooms and schools, and repairing or rehabilitating existing classrooms. Although reducing dropout and
improving learnig achievement would have priority under DPEP III, the program would also fmance expanded access through the
construction of new schools and classrooms and the rehabilitation of existing ones. Approximately 400,000 new places would be
created with the construction of 2,350 new schools and 4,400 new classrooms and the reparation and/or rehabilitation of about 300
existing classrooms financed by the project. Construction would be mostly undertaken by communities through the VECs, with the
government engineer as technical adviser. This scheme ensures a greater sense of ownership and a more likely acceptance of
responsibility for maintaining the school by the village. The project would employ a cadre of engineers on contract at the SLO, and its
own engineers at district level to supervise works and make use of consultant architects to produce a variety of cost-effective designs that
reflect end-users requirements. The construction program is built upon the excellent initiatives that are currently being deployed by BEP.
The Credit will finance civil works, furniture and equipment, and on a declining basis, the salaries of additional teachers required in
new facilities. The Credit will also finance, on a declining basis, the salaries of new teachers required by enrollment expansion
resulting from project activities.
As in DPEP II, a Rs. 50 lakh School Construction Innovation Fund would be established to assist GOB in undertaking research,
experimentation and evaluation of alternative "low cost" techniques for construction of school facilities. This Innovation Fund would
be utilized in part to finance design work though a collaborative effort of an architectural advisory group involving consultant
architects, education specialists, higher education institutions in the state and state construction agencies. The fund would also finance
the actual construction of prototype designs in communities covered by the DPEP HI project. Initially, the construction of these
prototype schools would be in parallel to the ongoing project construction of more traditional designs during the early stages of the
DPEP III implementation period. However, once an evaluation has been made of successful, replicable techniques in the prototype
Sub-district means a level below the district level, consisting of one or more of the following: Sub-division, block, panchayat and village, as well as an area defined
as a cluster by a Project state.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
schools, it is expected that these alternative methods of construction would be incorporated into the school construction program
during the remaining project period.
Sanctioning new teaching posts and appointing teachers. The Credit would reimburse, on a declining basis, the salaries of about
5,700 new teachers required by enrolhment expansion and by increased student attendance resulting from project activities. The need
for these teacher appointments would be documented by each district based on mitial attendance data collected on a school-by-school
basis and would be authorized by DPEP beginning in the third year of the project. New teacher posts in schools not constructed or
expanded with project fnancing would be eligible for financing from the third year of the project only on the basis of evidence of
increased regular school student attendance provided by a reliable attendance database in each district school. At negotiations, GOB
provided assurances that it will cause the BSPP to establish by December 31, 1999 in an appropriate number of sample villages in
each project district a reliable education database of: (i) the number of public, private recognized and non-recognized schools, through
microplanning exercises to be conducted by the VECs; and (ii) the best estimates of teacher and student attendance in such schools
through the establishment of attendance reporting mechanisms by the VECs and the educational management information system
(EMIS) (paras. 4 and 24(j)). This reliable database could also be used to rationalize teacher deployment to eliminate unjustified
differences in staffmg ratios between schools, and to sanction additional positions based on attendance. GOB has not filled teacher
vacancies resulting from retirement since 1993. It is estimated that there are about 10,290 primary education teacher vacancies in the
DPEP III districts and another 22,000 in non-project districts. During the appraisal mission, GOB informed the IDA team that: (i) the
Bihar Public Service Commission has initiated the process to fill all these vacancies; and (ii) most of these vacant positions will be
filled by December 1998. Prior to negotiations, GOB provided to IDA an implementation schedule to fill all teacher vacancies in
project districts and the state norm for positioning primary school teachers. During negotiations GOB provided assurances that it will
take all necessary measures to ensure that at least 95 percent of the teachers' posts in the project districts, starting the third year of the
project, remain filled throughout the project implementation period (paras. 4, 20, 21 and 24(g). In addition, during negotiations GOI
and GOB provided assurances that they will carry out with IDA and other external financiers of DPEP including UNICEF, two joint
in-depth reviews of the project by December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001, which will include a status report of the positioning of
teachers in project districts based on the state norms (paras. 4 and 24(b)).
Developing and implementing targeted interventions for socially disadvantaged groups (girls, SC and ST students, working
children, children with mild to moderate learning disabilities and other children who have limited access to educational
opportunities). The project will provide for the development, trailing and large-scale implementation of targeted interventions to
address equitable access, retention and delivery of quality education to the above-mentioned socially disadvantaged groups of
children in DPEP IH districts. To achieve this aim, each district has carried out a required social assessment study (SAS) as part of
the preparation of their first year AWPBs. Each one of these district-based studies have analyzed the: (i) existing social structures,
their relationship and impact on the education system; (ii) pattern of exclusion to schooling and the constraints of location, gender,
social, economic and cultural factors to access; (iii) patterns of working children; and (iv) constraints to women/girls' educational
development. These studies have also provided the basis for which district-specific strategies and interventions would be developed
and implemented under the Credit. The fmdings of these studies will be discussed with state and district planning teams during the
first year of the project. Some DPEP III districts have already identified through their SAS a variety of activities to improve learnig
achievement for girls, including a gender sensitive review of curricula and instructional materials, teacher sensitization through
training, ECE programs, establishment of alternative schooling modalities including multi-grade centers, non-formal schools,
residential schools (Ashrams) for tribal children, escort teacher services and peripatetic teachers. At negotiations, GOB provided
assurances that it will: (i) implement the project in accordance with strategies acceptable to IDA for improving primary education of
female students; (ii) implement the project in any tribal area (as designated by GOB in accordance with applicable state laws) in
accordance with procedures and delivery strategies satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) ensure that all investments in project districts which
are classified by the Borrower as tribal districts, or which include blocks classified by the Borrower as tribal blocks, are appraised and
implemented in accordance with a plan satisfactory to IDA for the delivery of project benefits to tribal people (para. 24(m)). For
these targeted interventions, the Credit will finance educational materials, consumable supplies, training, and consultant services. The
Credit will also finance civil works, furniture and equipment for residential schools that may be approved by IDA.
Mobilizing school and community organizations and carrying-out awareness campaigns in support of education. Popular
participation in the development of district investment proposals has raised awareness among beneficiaries of impending
improvements in the quality of schooling. Building from this base, a variety of awareness building activities-campaigns, community
meetings, fairs-would be undertaken by the VECs to increase awareness of the program and the benefits to communities and
schools. Emphasis would be given to the accessibility of children belonging to the socially disadvantaged groups currently deprived
of educational opportunities, on the importance of integrating into primnay school children with disabilities as well as working
children, and keeping in school all other children, especially girls, SC and ST students. The Credit will finance training, educational



Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
materials and consumable supplies for strengthening community/school organizations and awareness campaigns and consultant
services.
Establishing a Village Education Committees (VEC) for each school in the project districts. At the school level, DPEP III, like
the UPBEP and DPEP I and II, would be implemented through district-level bodies, including the Panchayati Raj structures and the
VECs. The approximate 32,000 VECs to be established under DPEP III are expected to oversee the operations of schools and non-
formal education centers, conduct annual surveys of village children to estimate teacher and student attendance and identify non-
enrollees and dropouts, contribute services and resources to the school and encourage parents to send their children to school and keep
them there. Depending on local circumstances, additional activities such as microplanning may be entrusted to the VECs. In addition,
DPEP III envisages a very important role of the VEC in establishing a reliable database of student attendance in primary school
(paras. 4 and 24(j)). The constitution of VECs is more or less similar across districts and includes the gaon panchayat president, head
teachers, headmasters, NGO representatives, members of panchayat, and representatives of parents/guardians of the village. These
organizations function with varying degrees of effectiveness. In states such as Kerala and Maharashtra (both DPEP I and II project
states) with long traditions of community involvement in schools, VECs meet regularly and are effective in their tasks. In other states,
surveys show that some VECs meet less frequently and, as a result, are less effective. Based on lessons learned from the DPEP I and
H projects, and especially from the BEP, the DPEP III district investment proposals have defined the functions of community/school
organizations, their membership (including reserving at least one third of all places for women), and a training and supervision
strategy. During negotiations GOB provided assurances that by December 31, 1998, it will establish VECs across every school in all
project districts with responsibility for assisting with project implementation (paras. 19 and 24(h)). The Credit will finance training,
educational materials and consultant services.
UNICEF would finance, as a pilot, the development of a training program and learning materials, as well as of strategies, to empower
communities through the training of VECs. The development of these tasks would be based on the successes of the training
package/process developed for the VEC under BEP (including microplanning, participation, learning and action through analysis and
assessment for empowering village communities to plan and monitor both participation in and effectiveness of their local primary
school).
Project Component 2 - Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary education (US$75.5 million,
including contingencies; 37.8 percent of total project cost). This component includes the following eight sub-components:
Selectively establishing new, and strengthening existing, early childhood education centers (ECEs). ECE is an important DPEP
strategy to improve readiness to learn, especially for children from illiterate households. ECE is also expected to contribute to
enrollment and retention for girls by providing an altemative source of sibling care during school hours. ECE is provided in Bihar by
the centrally-sponsored integrated child development service scheme (ICDS). National evaluations have found that participation in
the ICDS program improves retention in primary school. However, the timings of schools and ICDS Anganwadi Centers which
provide ECE and supplementary nutrition rarely match, thereby reducing the potential contributions of the program for sibling care.
In addition, Anganwadi Centers serve a population of 1000; this catchment area can include as many as three schools, only one of
which is likely to be located within easy walking distance. Moreover, ICDS coverage is very low in Bihar. Finally, the ECE
component of ICDS is unevenly implemented across the districts, raising concems for quality. Because of these factors, DPEP III
districts have proposed to expand or establish ECE programs for the 0 to 6 age group, often on a large scale. Existing programs have
rarely been evaluated systematically, and new programs would involve the creation of materials, training and supervision systems,
and facilities. For these reasons, the GOI would require that expanded and new ECE programs financed under the Credit first be
developed and tested on a pilot basis with concurrent evaluations. Proposals for ECE pilot programs and evaluations would be
considered by the DPEP Bureau for financing, beginning with the second year of the project. During negotiations, GOI and GOB
provided assurances that they will carry out with IDA and other external financiers of DPEP, including UNICEF, a second joint in-
depth review of the project by December 31, 2001, and such a review will include a status report of the modalities and framework of
cooperation between the Borrower's ICDS and ECEs under the project (paras. 4 and 24(b)). The Credit will finance the establishment
of about 700 ECEs and the provision of educational materials, consumable supplies, training and consultant services, furniture and
equipment, salaries on a declining basis and limited civil works.
Supporting interventions for women's education and empowerment programs. The project will strengthen existing and expand
new women's empowerment programs (Mahila Samakhya [MS]) in the state. These programs which form village women's groups
are a forum for discussion, reflection and action on problems confronting village women. They have also included literacy campaigns
and health-related activities, as well as education on women's legal rights and on public services available to them. These demand-
driven programs are based on facilitation, rather than directive processes. The collective comprised of village women are made
accountable for the planning, decision making and evaluative processes of all the activities inherent in their empowerment. The



Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
participating women determine the form, nature, content and timing of all group activities in their village, and the staff selection
processes are participatory. These programs take the time necessary to develop and do not have programmatic "targets". Instead they
are self-paced processes built on existing knowledge and the women's own priorities for learning. MS in Bihar has been run by an
autonomous society, and will continue to be so in the project. At the state and district levels, the MS will interact in a structured way
with the SLO and all DLOs to ensure synergy with other DPEP III-fnanced activities, especially those geared to increase access to
and improve the retention and learning of girls in schools. The support and expansion of MS in DPEP Ill will be phased in a manner
appropriate to their existing principles and methods of operation. The support of MS will be phased out in participating villages once
the women's groups have created an enabling self-reliance environment to sustain the empowerment activities developed under the
project. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will select NGO and community organizations participating in the
project in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 24(n)). The Credit will fnance training, consulting
services, education materials, consumable supplies, incremental operating costs and salaries for MS staff on a declining basis.
Installing toilets and water facilities in the primary schools. The absence of toilets and water supply in a large number of schools
in DPEP In districts often makes school an unattractive place to parents and their children, especially for girls. The installation of
toilets and water supply is expected to make a major and visible contribution to the quality of services, and hence to increase retention
in schools. Provision for water and waste disposal at classroom sites financed under the Credit will be fully integrated into the school
construction program explained above. These civil works programs would be implemented mainly by community/school
organizations. The Credit will fmance the installation and maintenance of about 7,600 toilets and sanitation civil works and 8,100
water facilities in primary schools in all DPEP III districts states, including equipment, costs of electricity connections, and
professional services.
Establishing and operating block and cluster resource centers (BRCs and CRCs). At the sub-district level, the in-service teacher
training envisaged by DPEP Ill would be implemented by block and cluster level offices. Training activities under the project would
operate at the block level through a network of 206 BRCs, which would provide the facilities for decentralized training and teacher
support activities fmanced under the project. BRCs would be managed by an education department officer. BRC training teams
would be drawn from carefully selected teacher trainers. Below the BRC level, and assuming one BRC for every 12 CRCs, DPEP
would be implemented through 2,476 CRCs, each comprising a lead primary school serving a group of about 12 to 16 primary
schools. These clusters would provide continuous support to primary school teachers within the cluster through classroom visits,
short meetings and pedagogical discussions at the lead school. Continuous support would be supplemented by periodic residential
training at the BRCs, with trainers drawn from DIETs. A senior and experienced primary school teacher would be assigned to serve
as the cluster resource teacher. Construction of these facilities would be completed by the third year of the project. The Credit will
finance civil works, equipment, furniture, vehicles, training, consulting services, educational materials, consumable supplies,
incremental operating costs, and salaries for block and cluster staff on a declining basis.
Providing continuous in-service teacher training. DPEP is seeking to transform India's approach to in-service training by
developing the training systems and infrastructure needed to make training a continuous classroom and school-based process. The
training conceived in the DPEP is expected to build teacher awareness and motivation for alternative classroom practices and develop
further training strategies for enriching the learning environment. The training may include an introduction to child-centered teaching
and active learning methods, applications in multigrade settings and possibilities for teacher preparation of teaching aids. The training
materials may be adapted as needed and translated into the principal regional languages of Bihar (Hindi, Urdu, Bangla, Oriya and
tribal languages). The core activities established for the UPBEP and DPEP I, fine-tuned for DPEP II and enriched with the in-service
teacher experiences from BEP, would be the basis for the in-service teacher training to be provided and financed under DPEP m. The
basic traits of the strategy are the: (a) development of initial modules and systems for training trainers, teachers and school principals,
based on the results of the new pedagogy visioning exercises carried out at the state, districts and sub-district levels with primary
education stakeholders; (b) development of the physical infrastructure needed to bring training to the BRCs and CRCs level; and (c)
expansion of training modules and materials to incorporate the minimum levels of learning (MLL) instructional materials, teaching
and learning materials for the integration of working children and children with disabilities into primary schools, and a variety of
effective classroom and school management and leadership practices. Teachers in DPEP districts would be provided with
approximately 25 days of training, preferably at the BRC level, throughout the life of the project, reinforced by monthly
meetings/workshops at the CRC level and school visits by cluster resource teachers.
Key to the success of the program is the development of good training materials and the training of effective master trainers and
resource persons. With the assistance of the national program, master trainer programs would be developed to train DIET faculty and
other teacher educators. Master training teams would test materials and approaches on a trial basis in districts using the facilities of
DIETs and Teacher Training Institutes. One source for carrying out this training would be the prototype training designs and
materials for school-based in-service training that have been developed and tested in several states by the Department of Teacher



Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
Education at NCERT and other state resource institutions for UPBEP, DPEP I and II and other primary education projects. Another
source for the development and delivery of in-service teacher training strategies would be a strengthened SCERT and the state and
district resource groups (SRG and DRGs) which are in the process of being established in the SLO and all the DLOs (see paras. 16
and 24(i)). The in-service teacher training devised for DPEP III includes: (i) implementing visioning workshops at the district and
sub-district levels to enable key stakeholders in primary education to understand more clearly what child-centered pedagogy entails
and what classrooms will look like by the end of the project under this new pedagogical paradigm; (ii) providing training and
technical assistance to DIETs; (iii) adapting national prototype training and classroom materials in regional languages; (iv) providing
training to assist teachers in the identification, assessment and teaching of children with mild to moderate disabilities; (v) training of
master trainers; (vi) adapting, testing and disseminating ECE materials; (vii) developing instructional materials, pedagogical processes
and in-service teacher training for effective multi-grade teaching; and (viii) developing instructional materials in tribal languages, in
cooperation with Tribal Welfare Departments and other concerned agencies. The nationally sponsored distance education program
fmanced under DPEP II will complement the in-service teacher training activities of DPEP IH.
In-service teacher training in participating DPEP III districts would start in the second year of project implementation and would
incorporate the first generation of training materials financed under the Credit. In later years, additional training modules would be
developed with technical support from DIETs and SCERTs, with priority given to multigrade teaching, teaching of reading and
mathematics, using new MLL in the instructional materials as they become available, the use of supplementary materials and teacher
preparation of educational aids. SCERTs and the DPEP Bureau/TSG would cooperate throughout the process to identify best
practices and innovations for dissemination throughout India. Master trainers and resource persons would participate in refresher
training as new training modules are developed and introduced. The Credit will fnance limited civil works, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, consultant services, educational materials, visioning workshops, training, fellowships, and incremental staff salaries on a
declining basis.
Developing and supplying improved textbooks and supplementary instructional materials. The project will assist the BSPP and
the Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation in improving the quality and efficiency of instructional materials development,
production and distribution (including textbooks, student workbooks, supplemental readers, teacher guides and other related materials,
as well as appropriate teaching and learnming materials designed to assist in the integration and mainstreaming of children with mild-to-
moderate disabilities in primary schools). This program includes: (i) preparation of a new generation of quality instructional materials
based on the state's approved MLLs; (ii) field tryout of instructional materials prior to publication; (iii) improvements in the design,
illustration, layout and durability of instructional materials; (iv) improvements in distribution efficiency including computerization of
stocks; and (iv) professional training for instructional materials agency staff. Technical support to improve pedagogy would be
provided by NCERT or equivalent organizations and the SRG and DRGs at the state and district levels. The activities of the SRG and
DRGs to develop improved textbooks and supplementary materials will be gradually integrated with the SCERT and DIETs or
equivalent institutions. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that by December 31, 1998, it will cause the BSPP to establish
technical resource groups at the state level and project district levels, to assist in the development and implementation of the project
(paras. 16 and 24(i)). A teaching and learning material study was completed and analyzed by IDA at pre-appraisal to guide future
instructional materials improvement efforts in DPEP III. The Credit will finance equipment required up to the stage of "camera
ready copy", training and consulting services.
In addition to the annual grants described below for the purchase of teaching materials by teachers, the program would also provide
funding for the establishment of small libraries and book banks (for example, for poor boys who are not covered under existing free
book schemes) in schools in project districts. Special allocations may be considered for materials purchased for one- and two-
classroom schools.
Providing grants to schools, community organizations and individual teachers for the purchase of educational supplies and
other quality inputs. Evaluations of the centrally sponsored operation blackboard scheme have shown the weaknesses of delivering
pre-determined packages of teaching aids to schools, without training and involvement of teachers and local education staff. Under
DPEP I and II, districts have been provided annual grants to schools, community organizations and individual teachers for the
purchase of consumable educational supplies, materials and other quality inputs. This grant-scheme has proven to be an effective
strategy to induce participation and ownership of teachers and communities in the crusade for improving the quality of education in
their schools. Likewise, under DPEP III, grants of Rs. 2,000 would be authorized for schools and community organizations. In
addition, annual grants of Rs. 500 would be made to each primary teacher in project districts to purchase materials for use in
preparing teaching aids. Schools and teachers would keep records and receipts for purchases. In-service training in the development
of teaching aids would be provided. The DPEP Bureau and the BSPP will closely monitor the use of these grants by schools and
teachers. In addition, the DPEP Bureau will periodically review the grant amounts.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
Carrying out periodic learning assessments of primary level students. Baseline assessment studies (BAS) were carried out by
each DPEP III district in a random sample of primary schools as a requirement for project preparation. The district-based BAS: (i)
measure achievement level in mathematics and language of class I and IV students and its determinants; (ii) assess status and
functioning of elementary schools in terms of physical facilities, teaching and teaching processes; (iii) provide a background profile of
teachers, headteachers and headmasters; and (iv) determine the achievement level of a random sample of children who have dropped
out from the system. Another set of district-based assessment studies are to be carried out at the mid and concluding points of project
implementation to assess changes in learning achievements in mathematics and language by type of student (belonging or not
belonging to any of the socially disadvantaged groups), region (district, block, school) and type of school (urban or rural). The
project would finance the undertaking of these BAS. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will carry assessment
studies on student learning achievement in all DPEP m project districts, with scope and content acceptable to IDA, in calendar years
2000 and 2002 (paras. 4 and 24((k)). Prior to negotiations, IDA received information concerning the findings of the second round of
learning achievement studies carried out for the UPBEP districts (see the details in Annex 2A of the PAD of the Second Uttar Pradesh
Basic Education Project). In addition, the DPEP Bureau has informed IDA that the second round of learning achievement studies for
the DPEP I districts are currently being carried out and the findings of the results will be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1998
through the joint supervision missions.
Project Component 3 - Improving state and district capacity to manage primary education (US$21 million, including
contingencies; 10.3 percent of total project cost). This component includes the following five sub-components:
Building and strengthening state and district program management structures (SLO, DLOs). The GOB would implement
approved DPEP HII state and district AWPBs (investment proposals) through its SIS (BSPP).; A bank account for the DPEP HI
implementation will be opened by the BSPP with an initial deposit from GOI and GOB, sufficient to cover project start-up activities
up to effectiveness (estimated by April 1998)6. The BSPP through its State Level Project Office (SLO) would review and supervise
the implementation of state and district AWPBs. The BSPP would also coordinate the cooperation of other state agencies, NGOs,
consulting companies and individuals to carry out project-related tasks. The SLO is fully operational and substantially staffed with
qualified personnel including a full-time State Project Director and full-time Unit Heads for Civil Works, Planning and Monitoring,
State Programs, District Programs, and Finance, Monitoring and Accounting. Some vacancies still exist that would be filled no later
than the first semester 1998. To ensure rapid start-up of implementation, at negotiations GOB provide assurances that it will: (i)
maintain the SLO with responsibilities to coordinate project implementation, with adequate staff, resources and facilities by the end of
June 1998; and (ii) establish a program of staff training satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4 and 24(e)).
The capacity of districts to plan and manage program delivery to improve the quality and expand the access to primary education
would require the strengthening of the district management structure. The day-to-day implementation would be managed by a
District Level Project Office (DLO) that would be directed, in most cases, by the District Education Officer (DEO). The staff who
participated in the planning teamns that developed investment proposals are expected to also play a key role in the actual
implementation. The DLOs would receive advances of funds from the BSPP against AWPBs approved by the BSPP and reviewed by
the DPEP Bureau. Funds would be maintained in separate accounts by the DLO director and advanced to schools and communities,
as required by individual sub-projects, where they would be maintained in separate dual-signature accounts. The above arrangement
would be implemented through local resources with IDA funds disbursed on a reimbursable basis for expenditures incurred.
The DLO would be staffed by a small team of specialist staff appointed and fnanced by the SISs. The staff would be headed by a
full-time project coordinator and include a fnance/procurement officer and a specialist to coordinate the implementation of program
components in functional areas (civil works, PMIS/EMIS and training) or in areas of special emphasis. In addition to managing the
DPEP Guidelines mandate the establishment of a registered SIS in each DPEP project state, like Bihar, to receive, disburse and
account for program funds, to manage program implementation, and to monitor and report on progress. The SIS is accountable to a
General Council chaired by the State Chief Minister or Education Minister and an Executive Committee chaired by the State Chief
Secretary/Education Secretary. Membership in both bodies includes representatives from other State Government departments and
the GOI. These structures under the UPBEP and DPEP I and II projects have been shown to have administrative flexibility combined
with public accountability.
6 The Bihar BSPP was established in 1991 to manage the BEP. The model Memoranda of Association and By-laws used are
compatible with the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) used in the establishment of other SISs for the UPBEP, DPEP I and II
Projects. This MOU model was reviewed by IDA against managerial and legal criteria during the appraisal of DPEP I. During
negotiations, GOI agreed to submit to IDA evidence that the BSPP has entered a MOU with the Borrower (GOI) as a condition of
disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit (paras. 4 and 24(o)).



Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
flow of project funds to project activities and supervising their implementation at the block, cluster, school and village levels, key
responsibilities of DLO staff would be awareness building activities, school mapping, management of the school statistics (EMIS) and
project (PMIS) management information systems and preparation of AWPBs. The 7 BEP DLOs are already functioning, while the
additional 10 DLOs are being officially established in the new districts. The process for the appointment of key DLO personnel in the
10 non-BEP DLOs has been initiated, and the selection process for a full-time qualified fmancial/accounting official, civil works
engineer and a management information system computer programmer was satisfactorily completed prior to negotiations. Orientation
and professional training packages for the staff positioned at the SLO and all the DLOs are being prepared. At negotiations, GOB
provided assurances that it will: (i) maintain the DLOs with responsibilities to coordinate project implementation in each project
district, with adequate staff, resources and facilities by the end of June 1998; and (ii) establish a program of staff training satisfactory
to IDA (paras. 4 and 24(e)).
Establishing and strengthening state and district resource institutions and/or groups (SCERT, SIEMAT, BSTPC and DIETs
or equivalent institutions). The project will finance the strengthening of SCERT's capacity to provide technical support for
curriculum revisions, improvement of textbook and instructional materials development, development of improved classroom
teaching models and in-service teacher training. The SCERT's strengthening activities comprised under DPEP III would be carried
out with support from national technical assistance programs developed for DPEP I and II, from the SRG to be established during the
first year of project implementation (paras. 16 and 24(i)), and from the experience acquired in the BEP project. SIEMAT, or an
equivalent agency, would be established as a small planning and management unit within SCERT to provide technical assistance and
training in education planning, school mapping, management and monitoring to state and district education staff. During
negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will: (i) maintain SCERT and SIEMAT with responsibilities to coordinate project
implementation with adequate staff, resources and facilities by the end of June 1998; and (ii) establish a program of staff training
satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4 and 24(e)).
The Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation (BSTPC) is an independent organization, established under the 1956 Companies
Act and is the sole authorized publisher and copyright holder of the state's core textbooks for Class I to X as well as for their
production. Less than 20 percent of the textbook production is carried out in the BSTPC's own printing plant while the larger share is
carried out by outside suppliers (printers) which it contracts. The project aims at promoting increased competition and efficiency in
the printing services for textbooks being provided under the project by the BSTPC (see Annex 6). The project will also fnance the
provision of training, consultant services and publishing software to upgrade BSTPC publishing skills in the development of
improved instructional materials (including textbooks) under the project up to camera-ready stage only.
The capacity of districts to improve the quality of primary education would require the strengthening of its District Institute of
Education and Training (DIET). DIETs would play a key role in the design and implementation of training programs at the district
and sub-district levels, in particular, at the block and cluster resource levels. DIETs would be developed as the principal technical and
professional resource agency for training, materials development, planning and management for district plans and work programs.
The work of the DIETs would be supported by the SCERT and the SRG and DRGs established at the state and district levels. The
GOI has recognized that the standard model for DIET organization, staffmg and equipment needs to be adapted to the support
requirements of DPEP, especially in regard to primary in-service teacher training. In addition, in some DPEP III districts, substantial
enhancement of DIET physical facilities would be needed. During negotiations, GOB provided assurances that it will establish and
maintain DIETs (sanctioned by GOI) or equivalent institutions in project districts and appoint key staff at such DIETs in accordance
with a schedule satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1998 (paras. 16 and 24(f)). The Credit will finance civil works in selected
DETS, equipment, vehicles, consultant services, educational materials, consumable supplies, incremental operating expenses and
salaries on a declining basis.
Strengthening state and district capacity for carrying out monitoring, research and evaluation activities. With training and
technical support from the national program on program evaluation, research and studies financed under DPEP I and 11, SCERTs
would be strengthened and expanded to conduct or contract program evaluation and research studies pertaining to the attainment of
the DPEP III objectives, as well as the effectiveness of the innovations implemented for such purposes. To carry out these studies, the
SLO may consider contracting out the services of NGOs, universities and other apex institutions. During negotiations, GOB provided
assurances that it will select non-governmental and community organizations participating in the project in accordance with criteria
and procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 24(n)). After a start-up period, these agencies would in turn assist DIETs to develop similar
capabilities. The Credit will finance civil works, equipment and furniture, vehicles, educational materials, consumable supplies,
training, consultant services, incremental operating costs, and salaries on a declining basis.
In addition to the above, the Credit would develop the capacity of state, district and sub-district level staff to manage the improved
school statistics and project management information systems (EMIS and PMIS), carry out school mapping exercises, consult with



Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
parents and community leaders, prepare annual work programs and monitor project implementation. In support of district capacity
development, the Credit would finance limited civil works, vehicles, equipment (including computer equipment for the EMIS),
educational materials, consumable supplies, training, consultant services, incremental operating costs and salaries on a declining basis.
Establishing a facility to support innovative approaches to improve primary education. The GOB has proposed a number of
innovative but un-tested approaches to improve primary education, including new cost-effective construction designs (see School
Construction Innovation Fund above). In addition, a number of core intervention strategies, including ECEs, would require pilot
testing prior to adoption and replication. Other innovations have been emerging during the UPBEP, DPEP I and DPEP H
implementation. Lessons learned from the implementation of these innovations will be considered in the execution of DPEP III.
NGOs are already involved in DPEP in a variety of ways, including innovative activities, work with women's groups and carrying out
non-formal and alternative education programs financed under DPEP. A facility called the "Fund for Innovations" managed by the
DPEP Bureau under DPEP I and II financing in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines, appraises proposals from states and districts
and commissions independent evaluation studies through the national program of research and evaluation. Following this model, the
DPEP HI Credit will support the establishment of an innovation fund with the BSPP (approximately US$60,000 annually) and with
the district implementation teams (approximately US$3,000 annually per district). The DPEP Bureau will approve innovative
activities under this fund as part of the DPEP Bureau's review of the state and district annual work programs and budgets.
Developing training modules for microplanning, VEC training and training of master trainers. Subject to UNICEF Board
approval, UNICEF will finance the development and provision of continuous in-service teacher training and supply of instructional
materials for such training, including: (i) a ten-day teacher empowerment module and related training; and (ii) state-level training for
master trainers. UNICEF would fund this specific subcomponent under the following general guidelines: (a) building on the successes
of the Ujala training initiated under BEP to develop an in-service teacher training program to be provided at the DIETs/BRCs and in
recurrent monthly sessions at the CRCs; (b) developing a training package/process for VECs, emphasizing microplanning,
participation, learning and action through analysis and assessment for empowering village communities to plan and monitor both
participation in, and effectiveness of, their local primary school; and (c) developing learnig materials through participatory
approaches for classroom use (such as multigrade materials) as well as for use in teachers' training and VECs. This sub-component is
fully financed by the UNICEF grant.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
List of Participating Districts
Education District                 Revenue Districts                    Type of the
Included                     Education District
1. Bhojpur                          1. Buxar                          Non-BEP District
2. Bhagalpur                        2. Banka                           Non-BEP District
3. Chatra                                                              BEP District
4. Darbhanga                                                           Non-BEP District
5. Dumka                                                               Non-BEP District
6. East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur)                                         BEP District
7. Gaya                                                                Non-BEP District
8. Hazaribagh                       3. Koderma                         Non-BEP District
9. Munger                           4. Jamui
5. Lakhisarai
6. Sheikhpura
10. Muzaffarpur                                                       BEP District
11. Pumia                           7. Araria                         Non-BEP District
8. Kishanganj
12. Ranchi                                                            BEP District
13. Rohtas                          9. Kaimur                         BEP District
14. Sitamarhi                       10. Sheohar                       BEP District
15. Vaishali                                                          Non-BEP District
16. West Champaran                                                    BEP District
17. West Singhbhum (Chaibasa)                                         Non-BEP District



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
Table 3.1 Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                Local           Foreign        Total
-----------------------US$ million-------------------
Expanding access to primary education                             90.5             3.3           93.8
Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary
school                                                            65.3             2.8           68.2
Improving state and district capacity to manage primary education  18.3            0.6           18.9
Total                                                             174.2            6.7          180.9
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                          13.8             0.7          14.5
Price Contingencies                                             3.8             0.5            4.3
Total Project Cost                                                191.8            7.9          199.7
(totals may not add up due to rounding errors)



Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
Annex 4
Economic and Social Outcomes of
Primary Schooling in India and in Bihar
Economic and Social Outcomes of Primary Schooling in India. The economic and social returns to investment in primary
schooling in India have been extensively documented in departmental ESW recently published as Primary Education in India in the
Bank's Development in Practice Series (1997). The summary of the results of the economic studies are as follows:
(a) the most recent rate of return studies are based on data from 20 years ago in Andhra Pradesh. Adjusted to take account of
school dropouts, the rates were 13 and 15 percent for primary and upper primary, respectively. These rates are higher than those
for secondary and higher education;
(b) recent analysis of historical data on rural households (1968-1982) living in areas where rural development programs (IRDPs)
were in effect concluded that for every one rupee increase in profit due to the effects of exogenous technical change, those
households with primary schooling experienced an additional 1.38 rupees and that schooling had a substantially larger effect on
productivity than did the extension services. In addition, farmers with no schooling benefited from their more schooled
neighbors who were the first to adopt new technologies;
(c) an attempt to disaggregate the sources of economic growth between 1971 and 1981 using a production function approach
indicated significant effects from education and from primary education in particular. However, cross-country evidence suggests
that there is a threshold level of average educational attainment across the labor force above which the impact is intensified. The
Indian labor force is below that threshold; and
(d) a recent Bank study to investigate the unevenness in changes in rural living standards and levels of poverty across states
between 1957 and 1991 concluded that higher agricultural output, lower inflation and higher state spending on development
programs provided only a partial explanation. States with better infrastructure in general, and higher literacy in particular, had
significantly higher rates of consumption growth and poverty reduction.
The National Family Health Surveys of 1992/93 collected data in each state on fertility, child health and nutritional status by mother's
education. The two major sets of conclusions conceming the relationship between schooling and social outcomes are:
(a) within each state there are very clear relationships between levels of schooling and total and desired fertility, women's age at
first marriage, infant and child mortality, child immunization rates and severely malnourished children. Both individual
households and society at large benefit from the impact of schooling on these outcomes; and
(b) equally important, comparisons across states indicate that the fertility, health and nutritional outcomes for a given level of
education differ between states. They are greater in those states with a wider education coverage. For instance, while a woman
in Bihar with secondary schooling has a desired fertility level below a similar woman with primary schooling, the level is still
above that of women in Karen with just a primary schooling. This suggests that the social benefits are greatest once the coverage
of a particular level of educational has gone beyond some critical point.
What are the implications of these conclusions for government financing of primary education in India? The direct and opportunity
costs to households of sending children to primary school are significant in India. Two sets of consideration support the sharing of
costs between government and parents. First, economic efficiency would be reduced if the provision of schooling was limited to
parental willingness to pay since social benefits are greater than the private ones - via, for instance, adoption by unschooled farmers of
the more productive agricultural practices followed by their schooled neighbors and of new health practices by unschooled women
learned from the behavior of the schooled. The social benefits from girls schooling are particularly high compared to the benefits
which accrue to the immediate household which bears the cost of schooling. The second consideration supporting government
subsidy is social equity. If credit markets and information were perfect even the poorest parents might borrow to finance their
children's education. But they are not. Requiring parents to bear the entire cost of schooling would reduce access to education for
much of the Indian population, leading to losses in both equity and efficiency. Government resources, whether generated locally, by
the state or by central government, are required for funding the provision of schooling.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
Economic and social outcomes of primary schooling in Bihar. The level of economic returns to education depend in large part on
the economic environment within which graduates fnd employment and, as argued above, on the degree of coverage across the
population. Bihar, at present, is characterized by extensive poverty, low growth rates and the lowest educational coverage in the
country. Without complementary changes in the social environment it is not likely that the immediate economic returns to primnary
schooling will be large. No rate of return studies have been carried out in Bihar. However, the links between literacy and poverty
levels and reductions have been investigated and the results indicate that, in the medium term, raising the literacy level is likely to
have a major impact.
The majority of the population in Bihar is extremely poor, even by Indian standards. The proportion of households in Bihar below the
poverty line is higher, at around 64 percent (1993/94) than in any other state. This translates to 66 million people with access to less
than Rs. 33 or US$1 a day. The average proportion across the country is 36 percent. Dividing the country into 61 agro-climatic
regions, Bihar falls into three. Each of these is among the six regions with the highest proportion of the population living below the
poverty line and two of them are among the ten regions which have witnessed to slowest reduction in poverty levels since the early
1970s. Of the major states, the growth rate of mean consumption and the reduction in poverty between 1957/58 and 1990/91 was the
lowest in Bihar. For instance, over this period, the headcount index of poverty fell by an average of 2.26 percent a year in Kerala and
only 0.06 percent in Bihar. As a result, while the proportion of households below the poverty line fell from 54% to 36% across all
states combined, in Bihar the fall was far less, dropping from 65% to 58% (and in Kerala from 66% to 33%). As a consequence of
high population growth rates, more people are below the poverty line today than in the 1950s. Table 4.1 presents estimates of the
proportion of rural households living below the poverty line in Bihar, Kerala and across the country for selected years between
19957/58 and 1993/94. The results for Bihar in particular are distressing. While the incidence of poverty has halved in Kerala and
been reduced by one third across the country as a whole, in Bihar there has been little decrease over almost four decades.
Table 4.1. Proportion of Households Below the Poverty Line.
India, Kerala and Bihar. Selected Years
(percent)
All India    Kerala    Bihar
1957/58               55.1        66.9       65.4
1963/64               48.5        63.2      55.0
1969/70               57.6        78.2       66.0
1977/78               50.6        52.7      66.2
1983                  45.3        43.7      69.9
1988/89               39.6        38.9       58.6
1993/94               36.7        31.1      63.5
Source: G.Datt, Poverty in India and Indian States. IFPRI, Washington DC.
Based on National Sample Survey results.
Recent Bank research has investigated the causes of differences between levels and changes in living standards and poverty across
Indian states since the mid 1950s utilizing the results of the National Sample Surveys (Datt and Ravallion 1995). Higher growth rates
in farm yields, lower rates of inflation and higher growth in state development expenditures all led to higher rates of growth of
consumption and poverty reduction. However, differences in the initial conditions of physical infrastructure and human resource
development, in particular female literacy, were also found to have significant effects on performance. For instance, the question is
posed: how much of the difference between each state's and Kerala's rate of poverty reduction is attributable to differences in their
initial conditions? In the comparison with Bihar, almost half of the differential in the decline in the poverty gap over a 35 year period
could be attributed to differences in the initial level of human resource development.
Unless steps are taken now to expand primary schooling in Bihar, the gap between its literacy rate and that of other states will grow.
Already, the literacy rate is second lowest (Rajasthan is the lowest) and the net enrollment ratio of 6-10 year olds (estimated at 50
percent) is the lowest across all states. Children not in school tend to be female and poor males. Using enrollment data for 1992/93,
there is an enormous 42 percentage point difference between the gross enrollment rate for boys and girls (compared to a national
difference of 22 percentage points), and a 27 point gap between children from families with per capita incomes of below Rs. 3,000
and over Rs. 10,000 a year. Enrollment rates between children of landless wage earners and those from families with land differ by
30 percentage points. There is a reasonable presumption that the expansion of primary schooling arising from the project will mostly
benefit poor children and particularly girls.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
Poverty in Bihar goes side by side with poor social indicators. Table 4.2 presents estimates of actual and desired fertility, maternal
and child health and nutritional status for Bihar, Tamil Nadu (the state with the best indicator), the state with the worst indicator and
for India as a whole. On all indicators Bihar scores well below the average across all India. In three of the five indicators, the state
records the worst situation across all states and in one other the second worst. Undoubtedly, the social and economic situation facing
the population of Bihar is dire.
Table 4.2. Selected Social Indicators:
Bihar, Tamil Nadu and All India. 1992/93
Worst Indicator   Bihar   Best Indicator  India
(i) Total fertility rate        5.2          4.1           2.1        3.7
(ii) Ideal number of children   3.4          3.4           2.1        2.9
(iii) Under 5 mortality        131.0        127.5         32.0       109.3
(iv) All vaccinations           10.7         10.7          64.9       35.4
(v) Severely undernourished     31.1         31.1           6.1       20.6
Source: India: National Family Health Survey 1992/93
Note: (i) is rural women 15-49 years; (ii) is ever married women; (iii) is per thousand births;
(iv) is percentage; and (v) is percent below 3 standard deviations weight for age.
Table 4.3. Total Fertility Rates and Ideal Number
of Children by Women's Education
Total Fertility     Ideal Children
Illiterate               4.3                   3.6
Less than middle         3.8                   3.1
Middle complete          2.7                   2.7
Secondary +              2.6                   2.5
Table 4.4. Infant and Child Mortality by Woman's Education
Infant  Child     Infant Vaccinations
Mortality            All None
Illiterate        103.1   49.5           5.4  61.7
Less than middle   80.1   28.6           21.1  32.6
Secondary +       54.1    5.7           39.6  16.7
Note: The rates for mortality are per thousand and for vaccinations
percent.
Table 4.5. Child Nutritional Status by Mothers Education
(percent)
Severely Malnourished
Weight for Age Height for Age
Illiterate            33.5           42.2
Less than middle      25.7           32.4
Middle complete        19.3          31.2
Secondary +           19.1           24.7



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
While the social indicators are generally very poor across the population of Bihar, schooling has a strong effect on an individual's
social behavior affecting fertility, health and nutritional outcomes as Tables 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 demonstrate. Both total fertility and
desired number of children decrease by educational attainment with large reductions for both literacy and the completion of middle
(upper primary) school. Again, the incidence of maternal and child mortality are decreased substantially through higher levels of
schooling, and infant vaccinations are increased substantially. The most significant reduction in malnutrition is associated with the
first level of education. The impact of schooling on behaviors which affect social outcomes is significant in Bihar, as elsewhere.
However, for the effect of each level of schooling to be maximized requires a much wider educational coverage.
Increasing internal efficiency: A principal focus of the DPEP program in general, and the project in particular, is to increase the
quality of schooling. This is intended to result in a higher quality education for graduating students. In addition, the expectation is
that a higher quality schooling will increase the perceived returns and induce an increasing number of enrolled students to remain at
school and not to drop out. Official dropout rates over the primary I-V cycle in India average 35 percent. Repetition rates are also
high with an average of around 30 per cent of students repeating at least one year. In Bihar, the dropout rate is estimated to be around
56 percent (Mehta 1995). Roughly 35 percent of dropouts occur during or at the end of the ffrst year, with a further 15, 12, 11 and 10
percent a year in future years. The repetition rate has been estimated to be between 3 and 8 percent a year (Mehta 1995). Using the
simulation model outlined by Cuadra and Fredriksen (1992), these rates imply that, in Bihar, for every 1000 students entering the first
grade, only 404 graduate from the five-year cycle. To produce these 404 graduates, the system uses an amount of resources equal to
3263 pupil-years or 8.1 years per graduate of a five year cycle. This implies that over 60 percent more resources are being used than
would be necessary with no repetition or dropout. Expenditure on elementary education (grades I - VIII) in 1995/96 was Rs. 1297
crores. For the primary cycle I -V, expenditure can be estimated at 60 percent of this total - Rs. 780 crores. With no repetition or
dropout, expenditure could have been around Rs. 490 crores, implying a saving of Rs. 290 crores or US$83 million. The cost of the
project is US$198 million. Around 40 percent of the expenditures will be used to increase new enrollments. Another 40 percent will
be utilized to increase the retention rates and enhance learnig achievement. The rest (about 20 percent) will be utilized for improving
the state and district capacity to manage primary education. The first two sets of expenditures will both increase the educational
outcomes of those who graduate and decrease dropouts and repetition. Reducing dropout and repetition rates by half might result in
savings of the equivalent of US$40 million a year.
Effective and cost-effective school-level interventions: As part of the requirement for involvement in the DPEP, state governments
are required to carry out baseline surveys of primary pupils' learning achievement and of the factors influencing achievement A
research program has assessed the impact of a variety of personal, household and school related factors on achievement. An
important overall conclusion from the data analyzed for districts in eight states is that the factors judged important in one district or in
one state are not necessarily important in all districts or states. However, multivariate analysis which controlled for student
background found that the most consistently significant school-level characteristics are related to the opportunity to learn. Student
achievement was higher in schools with more total instructional time and more instructional time on the subjects tested and where
both students and teachers attended regularly. The school's academic climate was also found to be important. In addition, physical
facilities, the provision of appropriate instructional materials for both teachers and students and the hiring of better educated teachers
all had positive effects.
An attempt was also made to assess the relative cost effectiveness of a number of interventions. The difficulties of undertaking such
analyses are well known and, at most, the results are only meaningful for small variations in mean expenditures per child. Among the
most cost effective interventions identified by the analysis are increased floor space per child, packages of instructional materials,
increasing the number of years of education prior to teacher training and increased time allocated to language classes. Again,
however, variations between districts, and particularly between states, are quite large. Packages of interventions identified locally to
meet the needs of specific schools are more likely to be cost-effective than uniform packages. What is effective in a state with a
generally high level of educational development may be different to what is effective in a state with a low level of educational
development. One of the strengths of the DPEP, and of this project, is that the development of the broad strategies is the
responsibility of district level personnel while many of the specific interventions and expenditures will be decided upon more local
communities, village education committees and headteachers.
Assessment of GOB finances and implications for the DPEP m  project. Analysis of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reports on
public expenditures in Bihar show that:
(a) revenue receipts increased from 16.8 to 18.6 per cent of GSDP between 1985/6 and 1992/93, falling back to 16.7 per cent in
1995/96. The cause of the recent fall was mainly a decrease in grants from the Center;



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
(b) revenue expenditures increased from 14.7 to 20.5 percent of GSDP between 1985/6 and 1992/3 falling back to 17.6 percent
in 1995/96. Most of the fall occurred under the category Economic Services, mainly for rural development and energy;
(c) the revenue budget was in surplus until 1989/90. The deficit peaked at 3.0 per of GSDP in 1991/92 and had fallen to 0.9
percent by 1995/96;
(d) net capital expenditure was 4.4 percent of GSDP in 1985/86 peaking at 5.8 percent in 1987/88 and falling to 1.3 percent in
1995/96;
(e) the overall fiscal deficit was equal to 2.3 percent of GSDP in 1985/86. It rose to 6.0 percent in 1990/91. Since then it has
fallen each year and stood at 2.2 percent in 1995/96. This is below the average for 14 major states of 3.2 percent; and
(f) the primary account (obtained after subtracting interest payments from expenditures) was in deficit until 1992/93 but has
been in surplus in subsequent years to the equivalent of 1.6 percent of GDP in 1995/96.
In spite of the small fiscal deficits and primary account surplus' which seem to suggests a healthy fiscal situation, further analysis
dispels such complacency. The level of outstanding debt as a share of GSDP is 35.7 percent, which is almost twice the overall level
across 25 Indian states. Interest payments have more than doubled as a share of GSDP over the past decade from 1.6 to 3.8 percent.
As a share of tax revenues and state non-tax revenues, they have been equal to over 27 percent in each of the past three years
compared to just 13 percent in 1988/89.
The fiscal deficit has been contained by measures which are likely to be detrimental to the further development of the economy and
which cannot be taken much further. Development revenue expenditures (on social and economic services) as a share of total revenue
expenditures have fallen since 1988/89 from 69 to 58 percent while interest payments have increased from 12 to 22 percent. In
constant prices, development expenditures increased by just 7.3 percent over the seven year period from 1988/89 - well below the
increase in population of around 15.5 percent. Expenditures per capita are falling by around one percent a year. Development
expenditures on economic services have fallen from 28 percent of total revenue expenditures to 20 percent of the total. Major
changes to revenues and expenditures have occurred since 1992/93. After increasing in each of the previous seven years (at least),
their share in GSDP has been falling. On the revenue side this has resulted from slower growth in grants from the center, and to a
smaller extent, a reduction in the growth rate of the state's own tax revenues. At constant prices there has been no increase in
revenues since 1992/93. To compensate for this reduction and simultaneously reduce the fiscal gap, two major steps have been taken.
First, on the revenue account there has been an absolute reduction in expenditures on economic services which translates to a 40
percent decrease in its share of GSDP (down from 6 percent to 3.5 percent in just three years) and a decrease of 14 percent in the
share of social services. Within economic services, there have been particularly substantial reductions for rural development and
power. The second route taken to contain the fiscal deficit has been to reduce expenditure on capital outlays. The capital share of
total expenditures has been falling over the past decade, and not just since 1992/93. The share fell from 18.4 percent in 1985/86 to
9.6 percent in 1992/93 and to 7.9 percent in 1995/96. As a share of GSDP capital expenditures fell from a peak of 5.8 percent in
1987/88 to 1.3 percent in 1995/96.
Revenue expenditures at constant prices on social services since 1985/86 have demonstrated two separate patterns over the past
decade. Between 1985/86 and 1990/91 they increased by 40 percent at constant prices and from 6.1 to 7.3 percent of GSDP. Since
then, real expenditures have fallen by 6 percent and their share of GSDP has been reduced to 6.3 percent. For education, expenditures
increased from 3.6 percent of GSDP in 1985/86 to 4.6 percent in 1990/91, falling back to 3.9 percent in 1995/96. In the earlier five
year period real expenditure increased by 34 percent and in the later period fell by 6 percent. As shares of total revenue expenditures,
social sector spending fell from 41 to 36 percent and education spending from 25 to 22 percent. As described above, capital
expenditures on the social sector in general, and education in particular, have been negligible in recent years.
The future. Per capita own-tax revenues in Bihar are the lowest across all states, and well below the next lowest levels in Orissa and
Uttar Pradesh. At constant prices they have not increased since 1992/93. With grants from the center in 1996/97 ahnost 25 percent
below the level in 1993/94 (at current prices), the overall future revenue position appears unhealthy. Adjustmnent has so far been on
the expenditure side of the accounts resulting in an almost halving of expenditures on economic services as a share of GSDP and a
continuing sharp fall in capital expenditures. In the social sectors such expenditures are now virtually non-existent.
To what extent can these overall responses to revenue trends and interest payment obligations continue? With real interest rates of
around four percent, even a constant ratio of debt to GDSP will increase the share of interest in a pool of revenues which shows little
growth. In addition, even a constant size of government labor force (the increase 1991-95 was 5.2 percent) generates an increased



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
wage bill as workers move up salary scales. Bank state finance studies have assumed an annual four percent real growth in the wage
bill. In the absence of increases in revenues, the share of development expenditures and capital expenditures in GSDP and total
expenditure would have to fall further. The growth of real development expenditures which have been increasing by less than one
percent a year since 1988/89 would need to be further reduced. Since salaries of existing employees are relatively protected,
resources for additional employees, such as teachers, and non-salary items would be particularly squeezed. How much further can the
capital budget be reduced? Outlays at current prices in 1987/88 were Rs. 625 crores and just Rs. 345 crores in 1994/95. Such
expenditures have virtually disappeared for all but irrigation, water supply and sanitation and a small allocation for roads.
Counterpart funding. The data on education expenditure in Bihar presented by the RBI in its surveys of state finances differ
somewhat from those received directly from the state government. Table 4.6 presents both sets of data covering the period 1991/92 to
1995/96 plus state government data for elementary schooling.
Table 4.6 Estimations of Education Expenditure, Bihar
1990/91 - 1995/96
(Rs. crores)
Total             RBI           State Government
Revenue Exp       Education      Education   Elementary
1990/91   4890               1210            1131        749
1991/92   5740               1270            1143        752
1992/93   6570               1330            1411        909
1993/94   7320               1400            1529        992
1994/95   7730               1680            1646       1101
1995/96   8170               1830            1891       1308
% Growth  67                   51             67         74
According to RBI data, total education expenditure fell from 25 percent to 22 percent of total revenue expenditure between 1990/91
and 1995/96 and increased by an average of 10 percent a year in current prices. State govermnent data suggest that the share has
remained at 23 percent during the period and that growth has averaged around 13 percent a year. The government expenditure
deflator increased by 61 percent over the same period. RBI data, therefore indicate a small decline in real expenditure while state
government data indicate a real increase of around one percent a year. Expenditure on elementary education has increased at a
slightly higher rate than for education as a whole taking 69 percent of the total in 1995/96 compared to 66 percent in 1990/91. Real
growth has been around 2.5 percent a year. Taking a longer view, between 1985/86 and 1995/96, real expenditure on education
increased by an annual average of 3.5 percent. Expenditure on primary schooling (grades I-V) is roughly 60 percent of all elementary
education expenditures - or Rs. 785 crores in 1995/96.
The project has a total cost of US$199.7 million over five years. The Bihar Government's obligations under the DPEP Guidelines are
to contribute with 15 percent of total project expenditures. The annual state project contribution would average about US$7.6 million
(Rs. 26 crores), representing a 3.4 percent increase over the 1995/96 level of total primary education expenditure (2 percent of total
elementary education expenditure). Although the project districts cover under half of the population (48 percent), maintenance of
past trends in education expenditure should be sufficient to ensure that counterpart funding would be manageable. However, the
provision of counterpart funding will not be the only additional financial obligation for the state government. In the project districts
there are 10,290 teacher vacancies, resulting from retirements not being filled since 1993, which are to be filled as a condition of the
project. This would add around Rs. 50 crores a year to the budget. Filling the 22,000 teacher vacancies in non-project districts would
add a further Rs. 110 crores a year. In all, GOB will need to allocate an extra Rs. 186 crores a year during project implementation
(Rs. 26 crores as counterpart funding and Rs. 160 crores for filling up teacher vacancies), which is equivalent to around 14.3 percent
of current expenditure on elementary education (about 24.3 percent of current primary education expenditures). However, evidence
has been presented that, in spite of the state's fiscal position, the Ministry of Finance of GOB has authorized all the vacant primary
education teaching posts to be advertised and filled by the Bihar Public Service Commission, and the GOB has assured that posting
will be completed by January 1, 1999 (see paras. 4, 20, 21 and 24(g) and Annex 2).
Sustainability. Sustaining project activities following project completion in March 2003 will require incremental expenditures
estimated at Rs 49.6 crores (US$14.2 million equivalent). This is equal to 6.4 percent of the 1995/96 expenditure on primary
education and should not, alone, be problematic. More of an issue is the ability of GOB to sustain the overall system with only a
minimal level of teacher vacancies. Without this, the long run benefits of the project would not accrue. The overall trends in public



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
finances in Bihar are disturbing. Both revenue receipts and expenditures have been falling as a share of state domestic product and
development expenditures per capita have also been declining, though more in economic services than in social services. Interest
payments are equal to 27 percent of all tax revenues and state non-tax revenues. The ability of GOB to sustain both the existing
educational base and project activities will depend on future developments in its overall public finances, including center-state
resource transfers. The commitments given by GOB during project preparation, the intention of GOI to ensure that total education
expenditures increase from 3.7 to 6 percent of GDP by the end of the Ninth Plan and the recent directive of the Supreme Court to
government to implement universal elementary education, suggest the financial risk of the project is worth taking in the context of a
state which has the highest incidence of poverty and severe child malnutrition and the second highest level of illiteracy and under five
year-old children mortality across all states. The agreement by GOI and GOB to prepare modalities for ensuring the post-project
sustainability of the capacities and services developed under the project and to discuss these with IDA during the second in-depth
review in December 2001 (see paras. 4, 20, 21 and 24(b)) should also increase the likelihood of project and system sustainability.






Annex 5
Page I of 1
Annex 5
Table 5.1 Financial Summary
Operational Period (Calendar Year of Expense)
1998      1999      2000      2001       2002
Project Costs (US$ Million, Including
Contingencies)
Investment Costs                        24.1       39.5      30.6       15.9      14.3
Recurrent Costs                          11.7      16.4      15.8       16.0      15.4
Total                      35.8      55.9       46.4      31.9       29.7
Financing Sources (% of Total Costs)
IDA                                       85        86         75        68         57
UNICEF                                     4         3          5         7          8
Govemment of India                        11         11        20        25        35
Total                       100       100        100       100       100






Annex 6
Page I of 9
Annex 6
Procurement Arrangements and Allocation of the Credit Proceeds
6.1    The procurement plan reflects the widespread and decentralized nature of the activities that will be conducted by the state
and the 17 project districts throughout the five year life of the Credit. Many of the procurement actions in support of project work do
not lend themselves well to aggregation for bidding as large single contracts. Civil works, for example, is dominated by the small-
scale: (i) construction of about 2,350 new two-classrooms schools and about 4,400 additional classrooms in existing schools; (ii)
rehabilitation of about 300 existing classrooms; and (iii) additions of about 8,100 wells and 7,600 toilets at thousands of school
locations. Likewise, the purchases of consumables, education and teaching materials amount to about US$41.7 million in aggregate,
but over 80 percent of it is comprised of small scale purchases of easily acquired local materials for both new and existing schools in
the project districts, estimated to cost less than US$15 per classroom each year.
6.2    Table 6A summarizes the project items, their related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement. Table 6B
summarizes the threshold for procurement methods and prior review. Project-related procurement of goods and works would follow
procedures acceptable to IDA using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) documents (already approved by IDA for DPEP I and II)
and National Shopping Procedures acceptable to the Association. Project-fnanced consultants would be recruited according to
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, furniture, books and
educational materials would be bulked to the extent possible and would generally be procured as follows: (a) individual contracts
estimated to exceed US$300,000 would be procured using ICB (although there are no plans at present for individual purchases greater
than US$300,000); (b) individual contracts with an estimated value between US$50,000 and US$300,000 would be procured using
NCB; and (c) individual purchases of off-the-shelf items through rate contracts or prudent shopping procedures would be acceptable
in packages of less than US$50,000 up to the aggregate limits as outlined in Table 6A. All the costs shown in parenthesis below
include contingencies.
6.3    Civil Works Construction and Maintenance (US$46.4 million). Over eighty-five percent of civil works would be for
small, scattered construction of school classrooms, and for classroom rehabilitation and repair, with an average estimated base cost
per primary school site of US$8,000. All such school and classroom construction and rehabilitation/repair estimated to cost equal or
less than US$20,000, up to an aggregate not exceeding US$37.1 million, would be carried out using one of following three methods:
(i) community construction; (ii) prudent shopping with solicitation of price quotations from at least three qualified bidders eligible
under the guidelines; or (iii) Force Account as a last resort, and usually in the case of repairs to existing facilities, in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (Force Account method will be limited to an aggregate ceiling of not more than US$2.3 million which is roughly 5
percent of all civil works costs). Generally, the day-to-day management and supervision of construction would be done by a cadre of
engineering supervisors hired (under terms of reference acceptable to IDA) by the DLOs. Civil works at BRCs buildings or other
facilities estimated at more than US$20,000 per site, up to an aggregate not exceeding US$9.3 million, would be carried out through
NCB procedures acceptable to IDA under the management of a cadre of engineers hired by the SLO. A summary of the categories of
civil works to be constructed under the project is shown in the table 6A.
6.4    Furniture (US$1.9 million) and Equipment (US$2.8 million). Furniture and equipment would be purchased on an annual
basis in accordance with the phasing of project activities. Equipment consists of office and audio visual equipment (computers, TVs,
VCRs, typewriters) with unit costs less than US$10,000, and small items (science laboratory equipment, science kits) with unit costs
of less than US$500. Because of the phasing of the project and the diversity of items to be procured, ICB procedures would generally
not be practicable. Contracts for equipment or furniture valued at more than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$0.6 million equivalent for furniture and US$0.8 million equivalent for equipment, would be made through NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Purchases of furniture and equipment totaling US$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$1.3 million equivalent for furniture and US$2.0 million equivalent for equipment, or about 70 percent of total furniture
and equipment costs, may be awarded on the basis of rate contract or prudent shopping with solicitation of price quotations from at
least three qualified vendors.
6.5    Vehicles (US$0.9 million). The majority of costs are for 4 wheel drive vehicles, automobiles and vans to be used at the SLO
and DLOs headquarters. Over the 5 year period of the project, plans call for the acquisition of some 81 vehicles. Experience in DPEP
I and II has shown that since competitive bidding of small lots as either ICB or NCB has not yielded adequate vendor interest, the
program does not lend itself to ICB. Purchases of like types of vehicles would be bulked whenever possible, but the timing of the
purchases will be related to the readiness of the districts, and it is expected that the purchase contracts would be valued at US$100,000
or less. For purchases not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, procurement will be through national rate contracts entered into by the



Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D) or local shopping procedures, comparing price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers to ensure competitive prices up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$0.9 million. Bulked purchases
estimated to cost in excess of US$100,000 would be procured through ICB.
6.6    Educational and Teaching Materials (US$22.1 million).  Educational and teaching materials would be purchased
throughout the life of the project in accordance with the phasing and entry of each participating district into the DPEP III Program.
These educational materials would be in the district's local language, and are available from local manufacturers. Efficient
purchasing, storage and distribution of these types of materials to over 31,500 school sites in the 17 Project districts does not lend
itself to bulking of requirements for ICB. With some exception for common reference books or teaching materials, bulking
requirements for purchase through NCB is also not a practical solution. Nevertheless, purchases would be bulked whenever possible
and procured at the state level in contracts valued at more than US$50,000 equivalent through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA for
an aggregate amount not exceeding US$4.4 million equivalent. For small purchases equal of less than US$50,000 equivalent,
procurement will be through: (i) national rate contracts entered into by the DGS&D; or (ii) local shopping procedures, comparing
price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers to ensure competitive prices up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$17.7
million equivalent. This amounts to local shopping procedures totaling approximately $210,000 per district per year.
6.7    Books and libraries (US$23.6 million). Provision of textbooks comprise the bulk of this category (US$ 18.0 million), and
like the teaching materials, they would also be purchased throughout the life of the project in accordance with the phasing and entry
of each participating district into the DPEP III Program. Textbooks financed under the project are to be purchased for free
distribution to SC/ST and girls in project districts. Since these textbooks are available only from the BSTPC, which is the sole
authorized publisher and copyright holder of textbooks in the state, there is no alternative source for procuring of textbooks for the
project except through direct contracting with BSTPC. Nevertheless, to promote competition and efficiency, the project authorities
have agreed with IDA that for textbooks being provided to the project the BSTPC would obtain printing services through competitive
bidding procedures consistent with IDA procurement guidelines. However, it was recognized there was a practical problem with
regard to the purchasing of textbooks for the first year of the project, since there is insufficient time for BSTPC to adopt new
procedures for printing services and conduct actual tendering for the new textbooks for delivery by the start of the new school year in
January 1998. Therefore, as a one time exception, IDA will permit direct contracting with BSTPC in an amount of up to
US$3,000,000 equivalent for production of textbooks in which BSTPC would be allowed to engage private printing firms utilizing its
existing contracting procedures. It was further agreed as a condition of disbursement that no Credit withdrawals would be made with
respect of payments for the procurement of textbooks for the project over US$3,000,000 until GOB furnishes evidence satisfactory to
IDA that BSTPC has adopted and followed competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA for the procurement of printing
services for the textbooks financed under the Credit.
6.8    Other purchases of books in this category amount to US$5.6 million and would be categorized as: (a) NCB (US$2.0 million);
(b) national shopping procedures (US$3.1 million) for stocking of libraries at schools and teacher training centers; and (c) direct
contracting (US$0.5 million) for books and library material that may be available from only one source (other than BSTPC).
6.9    Training and Workshops (US$11.5 million). This category includes expenses related to the preparation and delivery of
training programs for master trainers, teachers, school principals and other project staff over the life of the project in respect of
seminars, workshops, fellowships, travel and subsistence allowances.
6.10   Consulants and Studies (US$22.6 million) and Honorarium ($US4.6 million). Consultants required under the project
will be hired following procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Documents
used for inviting proposals, terms of reference for all consultancies and single source contracts will be subject to prior review for all
contracts valued at US$200,000 equivalent or more awarded to firms and US$50,000 equivalent or more to be awarded to individuals.
The vast majority of these contract arrangements will be for individual service delivery type agreements at costs not exceeding
US$5,000 per annum to be selected under standard terms of reference (including job descriptions, minimum qualifications and terms
of employment) already approved by IDA for DPEP I and II.
6.11   Incremental Operating Costs (US$5.6 miUion) and Maintenance (US$0.9 million). Incremental operating costs and
maintenance for vehicles and equipment items estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$6.5 million would be carried out using one of following four methods: (i) prudent shopping with solicitation of price quotations
from at least three qualified bidders eligible under the guidelines; (ii) direct contracting; (iii) rate contracts to qualified contractors or
registered NGOs or other beneficiary associations; or (iv) Force Account as a last resort in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The total
amount for this category amounts to less than US$77,000 per district per annum.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
6.12   IDA Review. The first three procurement contracts for goods and works regardless of value, and thereafter each contract for
civil works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more will be subject to prior review by IDA. Each contract
for vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more will also be subiect to prior review by IDA. All other contracts
for civil works or goods would be subject to random post review in the field by IDA visiting missions. The standard model contract
with BSTPC concluded after March 31, 1998, will be subject to prior review by IDA on an annual basis prior to execution All other
contracts for textbooks with BSTPC would be subject to random post review in the field by IDA visiting missions. Contracts for the
hiring of consulting firms costing US$200,000 equivalent or more and contracts for hiring individual consultants costing US$50,000
equivalent or more would be subject to prior review and approval by IDA. Approximately 20% percent of the value of contracts
covered by the IDA Credit would require priur review, which is a reflection of the decentralized nature of the work and substantial
reliance on Community Construction of Schools and National Shopping Procedures for small goods purchases throughout the life of
the project. This relatively low percentage is considered satisfactory since GOB will have gained experience in procurement from
DPEP I and II and other previous Bank projects.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
Table 6A: Procurement Arrangements&
(Total Costs in US$ Millions)
Prourement Metbod
Natlonal
Competive   Nations    Other    Consuling
Biddina    Shannina   Metbods    Benlices    N.B.F.    Total
CIVIL WORKS
Civil Works                                       9.3        7.0       30.1         -        -       46.4
(8.4)     (6.3)     (27.3)                        (41.9)
GOODS
Furniture                                         0.6         1.3        -          -         -       1.9
(0.5)     (1.2)                                   (1.7)
Equipment                                         0.8        2.0                    -         -       2.8
(0.8)     (1.8)                                   (2.5)
Vehicles                                           -         0.9         -          -         -       0.9
(0.9)                                  (0.9)
Books & Libraries                                 2.0        3.1        18.5        -         -      23.6
(18.2)     (2.8)     (0.4)                        (21.4)
Educational & Teaching Materials (incl. contingency
fumds at BRC & school levels)                     4.4        17.7        -          -       0.0      22.1
(2.9)     (11.5)                                  (14.3)
TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS
Project Preparation & Implementation (including
Workshops & Fellowships)                           -          -         11.5        -        9.7     21.2
(11.5)                       (11.5)
Insitutional Development (includes Local and Foreign
Consultant type contracts, Studies)                -          -          -        22.6      0.2      22.8
(22.6)            (22.6)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff & Project Management  -                   46.9         -         -      46.9
Team                                                                  (28.5)                        (28.5)
Honorarium (e.g. for ECE program workers)          -          -         4.6         -         -       4.6
(2.8)                        (2.8)
Vehicle & Equipment Maintenance                    -         0.4        0.4         -         -       0.9
(0.3)     (0.3)                         (0.5)
Incremental Operating Costs (includes office
consumables and expenses)                          -         2.8        2.8         -         -      .5.6
(1.7)     (1.7)                         (3.4)
TOTAL                                               35.2       35.2      96.8        22.6     10.0    199.7
(30.7)    (26.3)    (72.4)      (22.6)            (152.0)
NOTES:    /a Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA



Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
Table 6B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                Contract Value                 Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category                   (Threshold)                     Method                 Prior Review
1. Works
Civil Works       Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate not exceeding US$37,200,000
(including Force Account) may be executed by:
(i) Community construction methods;    Direct Contracting   Post review only
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of 3 Bids  Post review only
quotations obtained from at least three qualified
contractors eligible under the guidelines; or
(iii) by Force Account up to an aggregate not  Force Account  Post review only
exceeding US$2,300,000, usually in the case of
small repairs, and as a last resort in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
Civil works estimated to cost more than the    National Competitive  First three works contracts
equivalent of US$20,000 per contract, up to an Bidding      regardless of value and all
aggregate not exceeding US$9,300,000.                       contracts equal or more than
US$300,000 by prior review in
accordance with paragraphs 2 and
3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
All others by post review.
2. Goods
(a) Furniture,    Equal or less than US$50,000 per contract, up  National Shopping  Post review only
equipment,       to an aggregate not exceeding US$21,000,000  Procedures (includes
educational and   equivalent.                             DGS&D Rate
teaching materials                                        Contracts)
More than US$50,000 per contract.      National Competitive  First three goods contracts
Bidding             regardless of value by prior review
in accordance with paragraphs 2
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. All others by post
review.
Equal to or more than US$300,000 per contract. International  Prior Review
Competitive Bidding
(b) Books         Equal or less than US$50,000 per contract, up  National Shopping  Post review only
to an aggregate not exceeding US$3,100,000   Procedures
equivalent.
Equal or less than US$50,000 per contract, up  Direct Contracting  On an annual basis, prior review
to an aggregate not exceeding US$18,500,000                 of standard model contract with
for books available from only one source.                   BSTPC concluded after March 31,
(Note that for textbooks purchased through                  1998. All contracts with others
BSTPC, the first US$3,000,000 is allowed                    firms as post review.
through BSTPC's existing contracting
procedures for printing services. Beyond US$3
million, condition of disbursement requires
BSTPC to adopt procedures acceptable to IDA
for procurement of printing services.)



Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
More than US$50,000 per contract.     National Competitive  First three goods contracts by prior
Bidding            review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I
to the Guidelines. All others by
post review.
Equal to or more than US$300,000 per contract. National Competitive  Prior Review
Bidding
(c) Vehicles     Less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an   National Shopping    Post review only
aggregate not exceeding US$900,000    Procedures (includes
equivalent.                           DGS&D Rate
Contracts)
More than US$100,000 per contract.    International       Prior Review
Competitive Bidding
3. Services
(a) Contacts for   More than US$100,000 per contract.   QCBS. (Short List   Prior review of all consultant
Procurement Agents,                                     Comprising Domestic  contracts shall be governed by the
publicity, training                                     Firms only applies for provisions of paragraphs (i), (ii)
and workshops,                                          contracts less than  and (ii) below:
management                                              US$200,000).        (i) with respect to each contrc
information systems,                                                        for the employment of consulting
education research,                                                         firms estimated to cost the
IEC, and NGO                                                                equivalent of US$200,000 or
services.euvln  f S2000o
services.                                                             more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the
third subparagraph 2(a)) and 5 of
Appendix I to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply.
(ii) With respect to each contract
for the employment of consulting
frms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or
more, but less than the equivalent
of US$200,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (Other
than the second subparagraph of
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix
I to the Consultant Guidelines
shall apply.
(iii) With respect to each
contract for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and
terms of employment of the
consultants shall be furnished to
the Association for its prior review
and approval. The contract shall
be awarded only after the said
approval shall have been given.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an  Single Source Selection - Same prior review limits
aggregate not exceeding US$21,600,000   (acceptable for tasks  as in paragraph 3(a) above
equivalent.                             representing a natural
continuation of
assignment, when rapid
selection essential, when
only one firm is qualified,
or for small individual
consultant contracts).
(b) Honorarium,    US$5,000 or less per contract, up to an  Hiring of Service  Post review only
services delivery    aggregate not exceeding US$4,600,000.  Delivery Contractors -
contractors                                                (applies to large
numbers of service
delivery contractors
contemplated under
project such as ECE
centre workers, and
small individual
consultant contracts).
(c) Individual    US$10,000 or less per contract.          Hiring of Individual  Post review only
Consultants                                                Consultants - (applies
to individual
consultants for
institutional
strengthening procured
in accordance with
paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Consultant
guidelines).
(d) Training,     (Normal Government procedures for       Not applicable       Not applicable
workshops &       travel and per diem allowance for individuals
fellowships       and incidental expenses associated with the
training being conducted. Estimated aggregate
amnount US$11,500,000 equivalent - primarily
as TA/DA expenses).
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Incremental   Incremental operating costs and maintenance
operating costs and  estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000
maintenance       or less per contract, up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$6,400,000 may be executed by:
(i) direct contracting up to an aggregate  Direct Contracting  Post review only
not exceeding US$2,000,000; or
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of 3 Bids  Post review only
quotations obtained from at least three qualified
contractors eligible under the guidelines up to
an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$3,400,000; or
(iii) by Force Account, up to an aggregate not  Force Account  Post review only
exceeding $1,000,000, as a last resort and in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
(b) Salaries estimated (Normal Government deputation or staff hiring Not applicable  Not applicable
at US$46,900,000   practices)



Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Table 6C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                                    Amount in          IDA Financing
US$ Million          Percentage
*  Civil Works                                           US$37.5      90%
*  Equipment, vehicles, books, teaching materials, and   US$26.3      100% of foreign
furniture                                                         expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for
other items procured
Items (including contingencies)                          locally
US$1.7 Furniture
US$2.5 Equipment
USS0.9 Vehicles
US$24.2 Books & Libraries
*  Training, workshops, fellowships, and consultant services    US$32.3  100%
Items (including contingencies)
US$22.6 Consultants
US$11.5 Staff Training (Incl TAIDA)
3  Incremental operating and maintenance costs           US$42.2      80% of local expenditures
incurred until March 31,
2000; 55% of
expenditures incurred
from April 1, 2000 until
March 31, 2002; and 35%
of expenditures incurred
thereafter.
Items (including contingencies)
US$28.5 Salaries ofAdditional Staff
US$14.9 Incr Opn Costs (incl BRC, Office)
USS0. 7 Operation & Maint of Vechicles, Equipment & Buildings
USS2.8 Honorarium
*  Unallocated (summation of contingencies)              US$13.7
TOTAL                                                US$152.0



I
I



Annex 7
Page I of 1
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                           Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
360.5                  303.9
(Prior to negotiations)
421.0                  326.4
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (11 months)
First Bank mission (identification)                 07/22/1996             07/22/1996
Appraisal mission departure                         09/24/1997             07/20/1997
Negotiations                                        01/02/1998             09/15/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       06/01/1998             04/01/1998
Prepared by:            Bihar Shiksha Pariyoqna Parishad (State Implementation Society - SIS) of
GOB under the general coordination of the DPEP Bureau of the Department
of Education of the Ministry of Human Resource Development of GOI
Preparation assistance: Japanese Grant (TF022582); and
BEP Project Funds (this project is being financed by GOI, GOB and UNICEF)
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Juan Prawda (Senior Education Specialist, SASED, Task
Manager), Audrey Aarons (Education Specialist, SASED), Kevin Casey (Senior Implementation Specialist,
SASPH), Keith Hinchliffe (Senior Economist, SASED), N.K. Jangira (Education Specialist, SACIF), V.J.
Ravishankar (Economist, SACIF), Sam Thangaraj (Social Development Officer, SACIF), Adriaan
Verspoor (Education Adviser, SACIF), Roger Bonner (Consultant, Civil Works Specialist) and Philip
Cohen (Consultant, Learning Materials Specialist). Margaret Png and Salman Salman (LEGSA), Cecil
Perera (LOAAS) and Agustin Litvak (SARPS) assisted the team prior and during negotiations. David
Harding (Chief Education, UNICEF-Delhi) and Tejinder Singh (Education Project Officer, UNICEF-
Patna-Bihar) participated as observers throughout the entire project preparation cycle. Jacob Bregman
(LASHC, formerly at SAIPH), Bruno Laporte (HDDED) and Jamil Salni (LASHC) acted as peer
reviewers. Susan Hirshberg, Mark Schlagel and Gertrude Stubblefield (SASED) assisted in preparing and
editing the document. Sudesh Ponnappa (SACIF) assisted in the mission's preparation. At the time of the
PAD Review Meeting, and prior to the reorganization of the South Asia Region, the project was endorsed
in the South Asia Country Department II (Bhutan, India, Nepal) by Richard Skolnik, Division Chief,
Population and Human Resource Division; Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser; Robert S. Drysdale,
Director, South Asia Country Departnent II and Edwin R. Lim, Director, Resident Staff in India (currently
Director, SACIN). After the reorganization, the project was also endorsed by Ralph Harbison, Sector
Manager (SASED).






Annex 8
Page I of I
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A.     Project Implementation Plans
1.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Project Implementation Plan. Bihar. August 1997
2.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Transition Plan. Bihar. May 1997
3.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Management Plan. Bihar. March 1997
4.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Annual Working Plans and Budgets for the Districts of: Bhojpur; Bhagalpur;
Chatra; Darbhangal; Dumka; East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur); Gaya; Hazaribagh; Munger; Muzaffarpur; Purnia; Ranchi;
Rohtas; Sitamarhi; Vaishali; West Champaran; and West Singhbhum (Chaibasa). May 1997.
5.     Third District Primary Education Programme. District Plans (1997-2002) for the Districts of: Bhojpur; Bhagalpur; Chatra;
Darbhanga; Dumka; East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur); Gaya; Hazaribagh; Munger; Muzaffarpur; Purnia; Ranchi; Rohtas;
Sitamarhi; Vaishali; West Champaran; and West Singhbhum (Chaibasa). May 1997.
6.     Third District Primary Education Programme. State Plan. Department of Secondary Education, Prhnary and Adult
Education, Government of Bihar, Patna. May 1997
B.     Assessment Studies
1 .    Third District Prinary Education Programme. Final Reports of the Social Assessment Studies Conducted in the Districts of:
Bhojpur; Bhagalpur; Chatra; Darbhanga; Dumka; East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur); Gaya; Hazaribagh; Munger;
Muzaffarpur; Purnia; Ranchi; Rohtas; Sitamarhi; Vaishali; West Champaran; and West Singhbhum (Chaibasa). May 1997.
2.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Final Report of the Baseline Assessment Study in the Districts of. Bhojpur;
Bhagalpur; Chatra; Darbhanga; Dumka; East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur); Gaya; Hazaribagh; Munger; Muzaffarpur;
Purnia; Ranchi; Rohtas; Sitamarhi; Vaishali; West Champaran; and West Singhbhum (Chaibasa).. May 1997
3.     Third District Primnary Education Programme. Report on Bihar State Finance Study on Education. May 1997
4.     Third District Prinary Education Programme. National Appraisal Report of Bihar (May 5-20, 1997). Ed.CIL. May 1997
C.     Other
1.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Draft Manual ofMaintenance ofSchool Buildings. May 1997
2.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Construction Manualfor Buildings Development Program. May 1997
3.     Third District Primary Education Programme. Standard LCB Bidding Documents for the Acquisition of Hardware and
Software Requiredfor the EMIS and PMIS at the State and District Levels. May 1997
4.     Government of Bihar, Secretary of Education. Resettlement Letter. Patna, Bihar, June 10, 1997



Annex 9
Page I of 5
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of June 30, 1997)
Original Amount in US$                 Difference
Millions                        Between
expected
Loan   Fiscal                                                                           and actual
or    Year               Project              IBRD      IDA      Cancel-   Undis-      disburse-
Credit                                                             lations    bursed      ments a/
No.
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 365
Active Loans
C19230  1988  TAMIL NADU URBAN                      0.00   300.20     45.47     20.51            65.02
L30960  1989  MAIIARASHTRA POWER                 400.00      0.00     62.67      85.04          141.61
L30240   1989  NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO               485.00      0.00      0.00    227.97          217.27
L29940   1989  STATE ROADS I                      170.00     0.00     61.41       9.95          151.36
C20080  1989  VOCATIONAL TRAINING                   0.00   250.00    103.33     41.94           168.62
L32370  1990  NOR REG TRANSM                     485.00      0.00      0.00    259.06          251.06
L31190  1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOP.                 145.00     0.00     10.00     27.71            37.71
C21580  1990  SECOND TN NUTRITION                   0.00    95.80     29.81       3.49          23.71
C21330  1990  POP. TRG (VII)                        0.00    86.70     22.74       8.71           31.93
C21310  1990  WTRSH PLAINS                          0.00    55.00      0.00      17.90            9.92
C21300  1990  TECH EDUC I                           0.00   235.00     24.26     60.59            78.90
C21150  1990  HYDERABAD W/S                         0.00    79.90      0.00     24.36           21.30
C21000  1990  WTRSH HILLS                           0.00    75.00      0.00     32.76           40.26
C20760  1990  PUNJAB IRR & DRAINAG                  0.00   150.00      4.72     36.70            34.71
C20640  1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                  0.00    55.00      0.00     24.51            17.53
L33640  1991  GAS FLARING REDUCTIO               450.00      0.00      0.00     25.87           25.87
L33340   1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO               124.00     0.00      0.00     20.53            -6.07
L33000  1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                      20.00      0.00      0.00     20.00             1.25
L32590  1991  PETROCHEMICALS                     233.00      0.00     70.30      30.77         -131.93
L32580  1991  PETROCHEMICALS                       12.00     0.00      0.00       1.88            1.88
C22520  1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO                  0.00    31.60      0.00      19.44           18.30
C22410  1991  DAM SAFETY                            0.00   130.00      0.00     99.39           115.38
C22340  1991  MAHARASHTRA RURAL WS                  0.00   109.90      0.00     43.21           45.11
C22230  1991  TECH EDUC II                          0.00   307.10     51.37    132.95           138.85
C22150  1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                        0.00    92.80      0.00      17.07           14.39
C21730  1991  ICDS I (ORIS & ANDHR                  0.00    96.00     21.65     22.46           41.43
L34980   1992  MAHARASHTRA POWER II              350.00      0.00      0.00    237.75          230.55
L34700  1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS II                    153.00     0.00      0.00    153.00             0.00
L34360  1992  POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP               265.00      0.00     25.00     72.31            92.01
C23940  1992  POPULATION VIII                       0.00    79.00      0.00     71.51           45.93
C23650  1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS II                      0.00   153.00      0.00     79.77            56.68
C23500  1992  AIDS PREVENTION AND                   0.00    84.00      0.00     32.13            30.91
C23410  1992  WEST BENGAL FORESTRY                  0.00    34.00      0.00       4.67            1.22
C23290  1992  SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                  0.00    85.00     48.51      24.81           58.93
C23280  1992  MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                  0.00   124.00     16.18      63.41           43.52
L36320   1993  NTPC POWER GENERATIO              400.00      0.00      0.00    256.65          256.65
L35770   1993  PGC POWER SYSTEM                   350.00     0.00      0.00    189.40           140.20
C25280  1993  NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                  0.00    85.00      0.00      59.30           36.58
C25 100  1993  UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                 0.00    54.70      0.00      33.64           10.65
C25090  1993  UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                   0.00   165.00      0.00      76.32            4.86
C24830  1993  KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                  0.00    92.00      0.00      70.11           43.04



Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
Original Amount in US$                 Difference
Millions                        Between
expected
Loan   Fiscal                                                                           and actual
or    Year               Project               IBRD      IDA     Cancel-   Undis-       disburse-
Credit                                                             lations    bursed      ments a/
No.
C24700  1993  ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                  0.00   194.00      0.00    170.35            73.25
C24490  1993  RENEWABLE RESOURCES                   0.00   115.00      0.00      87.81           73.70
C24390  1993  BIHAR PLATEAU                         0.00   117.00      0.00      87.29           64.15
C24330  1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                       0.00   106.00      0.00      47.02           16.83
C24090  1993  RUBBER                                0.00    92.00     36.58      40.46           46.45
L37530   1994  CONTAINER TRANSPORT                 94.00     0.00      0.00      82.54           54.54
C26300  1994  POPULATION IX                         0.00    88.60      0.00      75.85           13.06
C26110  1994  BLINDNESS CONTROL                     0.00   117.80      0.00    101.34            20.96
C25940  1994  MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUA                  0.00   246.00     29.19      63.00           80.11
C25920  1994  WATER RES CONSOLID H                  0.00   258.00      0.00    197.61            50.01
C25730  1994  ANDHRA PRADESH FORES                  0.00    77.40      0.00      55.97           14.19
C25720  1994  FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                  0.00    47.00      0.00      35.04           20.04
L39076   1995  MADRAS WATER SUP II                269.80     0.00    189.30      77.10           -3.40
L38576   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV               144.00     0.00      0.00    142.46            -1.54
L38560  1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                350.00     0.00      0.00    200.00          -150.00
L37806   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                50.00     0.00      0.00      45.51           -4.49
L37790  1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                 93.00     0.00      0.00      85.93            3.98
C27450  1995  TAMIL NADU WRCP                       0.00   282.90      0.00    239.67            44.30
C27330  1995  ASSAM RURAL INFRA                     0.00   126.00      0.00    108.63            15.59
C27000  1995  MP FORESTRY                           0.00    58.00      0.00      43.60            2.53
C26990  1995  AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                  0.00    59.50      0.00      50.10           19.59
C26630  1995  AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                  0.00   133.00      0.00    117.44            20.01
C26610  1995  DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                   0.00   260.30      0.00    192.43            15.67
C26450  1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                  0.00    25.00      0.00      24.68           25.00
L40560   1996  UP RURAL WATER                      59.60     0.00      0.00      57.20            -.20
L40140  1996  ORISSA POWER SECTOR                 350.00     0.00      0.00    334.57             -.43
L39920  1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                 200.00     0.00      0.00    175.00            -3.50
L39230  1996  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                   167.00     0.00       0.00    153.85           27.15
C28760  1996  DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                  0.00   425.20      0.00    398.44             6.51
C28620  1996  COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                  0.00    63.00      0.00      57.47            1.11
C28380  1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                   0.00     5.00      0.00       4.74            5.00
C28330  1996  STATE HEALTH SYS II                   0.00   350.00      0.00    316.11            16.94
C28010  1996  ORISSA WRCP                           0.00   290.90      0.00    237.34            -5.81
C27740  1996  HYDROLOGY PROJECT                     0.00   142.00      0.00    119.69            15.24
L41920   1997  STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)               350.00     0.00      0.00    350.00             0.00
L41660   1997  AP IRRIGATION III                  175.00     0.00      0.00    175.00             0.00
L41560   1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                 50.00     0.00      0.00      50.00            0.00
L41140   1997  TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV                51.50     0.00      0.00      47.76            6.26
C29640  1997  MALARIA CONTROL                       0.00   164.80      0.00    166.17             0.00
C29520  1997  AP IRRIGATION III                     0.00   150.00      0.00    150.70             0.00
C29500  1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                   0.00   100.00       0.00    100.51            0.00
C29420  1997  RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                     0.00    19.50       0.00     18.82            0.00
C29360  1997  TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                  0.00   142.40      0.00    132.50            -1.18
C29300  1997  ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                  0.00    50.00      0.00      48.37            0.00
C29160  1997  ECODEVELOPMENT                        0.00    28.00      0.00      25.62           -1.00
CN018   1997  REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                  0.00   248.30      0.00    250.24             0.00
Total                           6,445.90  7,688.30    852.48   8,481.50       3,286.36



Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
Original Amount in US$                Difference
Millions                       Between
expected
Loan   Fiscal                                                                         and actual
or    Year              Project              IBRD      IDA    Cancel-   Undis-       disburse-
Credit                                                           lations    bursed     ments a/
No.
Active Loans    Closed Loans       Ital
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):     4,778.67       29,571.14      34,349.81
of which has been repaid:          168.78        8,544.66       8,713.44
Total now held by IBRD and          13,112.93      20,479.55      33,592.48
IDA:
Amount sold         :                   0.00         133.77          133.77
Of which repaid    :                  0.00          133.77         133.77
Total Undisbursed   :               8,481.50          96.81        8,578.31
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 5
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(As of June 30, 1997)
Amounts in US$ Millions
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval          Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Qua  Partic
Si
1964/75/79/90     MUSCO                   0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08  0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93     HDFC                   40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00   40.00    2.29  0.00    0.00
1981              Nagarjuna Steel         0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00     .07  0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode          0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55  0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92    TISCO                 8.45   15.37    0.00    0.00    8.45   15.37  0.00    0.00
1981/90/93        M&M                      .83    6.49    0.00    3.33     .83    6.49  0.00    3.33
1982              Modi Cement            16.83    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.83    0.00  0.00    0.00
1984/90/94        India Lease             1.31     .86    0.00    0.00    1.31     .86  0.00    0.00
1984/91           Bihar Sponge           13.05     .68    0.00    0.00   13.05     .68  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-City Mills           .48    0.00    0.00    0.00     .48    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-CECL                 .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-NB Footwear          .19    0.00    0.00    0.00     .19    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-Paharpur             .15    0.00    0.00    0.00     .15    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-STG                  .46    0.00    0.00    0.00     .46    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-TAN                  .03    0.00    0.00    0.00     .03    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-Wires & Fab.         .07    0.00    0.00    0.00     .07    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94     GESCO                   0.00   13.05    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.05  0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95     India Equipment          .60     .77    0.00    1.47    .60      .77  0.00    1.47
1987              Hindustan               7.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.40    0.00  0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93     Titan Watches           2.74    1.03    0.00    0.00    2.74    1.03  0.00    0.00
1988/90/92        Tata Telecom            0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00     .10  0.00    0.00
1988/94           GKN Invel               0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40  0.00    0.00
1989              AEC                    13.72    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.72    0.00  0.00    0.00
1989              UCAL                    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00     .63  0.00    0.00
1989/90/94        Tata Electric          64.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   64.24    0.00  0.00    0.00
1989/91           Gujarat State          11.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.35    0.00  0.00    0.00
1989/95           JSB India               0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21  0.00    0.00
1990              HOEL                    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00     .28  0.00    0.00
1990              TDICI-VECAUS II         0.00    1.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.94  0.00    0.00
1990/92           CESC                   48.79    0.00    0.00   67.00   48.79    0.00  0.00   67.00
1990/93/94        IL&FS                  27.75    3.11    1.81   10.00   27.75    3.11  1.81   10.00
1990/94           ICICI-IFGL              0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00     .30  0.00    0.00
1990/95           ICICI-SPIC Fine         0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88  0.00    0.00
1991              Block KG-OS-IV          0.00     .02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1991              BSES                   45.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   45.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1991/93           Triveni                 0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11  0.00    0.00
1991/96           VARUN                  11.35    1.35    0.00    5.33   11.35    1.35  0.00    5.33
1992              Indus VC Mgt Co         0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01  0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VCF               0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00  0.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund          0.00     .64    0.00    0.00    0.00     .64  0.00    0.00
1992              SKF Bearings            6.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.70    0.00  0.00    0.00
1992/93           Arvind Mills            0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.10  0.00    0.00
1992/94/97        Ispat Industries       85.55    5.77    0.00   85.00   38.19    5.77  0.00    0.00
1992/95           Creditcapital VF        0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05  0.00    0.00
1992/96/97        NICCO-UCO               1.88    .50    0.00    0.00    1.88      .50  0.00    0.00
1993/94/96        IndoRama               20.31   11.98    0.00    8.13   20.31   11.98  0.00    8.13
1993/97           20TH Century           15.78     .80    0.00    4.62    5.78     .80  0.00    4.62
1994              Centurion Growth        0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39  0.00    0.00
1994              Chowgule               15.00    4.58    0.00   27.00   13.75    4.58  0.00   24.75



Annex 9
Page 5 of 5
Amounts in US$ Millions
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval          Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Qua  Partic
Si
1994              Crdcap Asset Mgt       0.00    .32    0.00    0.00    0.00      .32  0.00    0.00
1994              DLF Cement             11.00    4.94    0.00   17.00   11.00    4.94  0.00   17.00
1994              Global Trust           0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.19  0.00    0.00
1994              Gujarat Ambuja         0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23  0.00    0.00
1994              Taurus Starshare       0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17  0.00    0.00
1994              TCAMC                  0.00    .16    0.00    0.00    0.00      .16  0.00    0.00
1994/97           GVK                   40.00    8.30    0.00   37.65   30.00    8.30  0.00   37.65
1995              Centrion Bank          0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87  0.00    0.00
1995              EXIMBANK              25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1995              ISIC                   0.00    .32    0.00    0.00    0.00      .32  0.00    0.00
1995              Prism Cement           15.00    5.02    0.00   15.00   15.00    5.02  0.00   15.00
1995              Rain Calcining         19.25    5.40    0.00    0.00   10.50    4.72  0.00    0.00
1995              RPG Communicatis       0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30  0.00    0.00
1995              SaraFund                0.00    7.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10  0.00    0.00
1995              SRF Finance            13.89    5.00    0.00    0.00   13.89    4.39  0.00    0.00
1996              CVF Oil Gas-AL          8.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1996              India Direct Fnd        0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    .82  0.00    0.00
1996              Indus II                0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00  0.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1996              Moser Baer             5.70    .60    0.00    0.00    5.70    0.00  0.00    0.00
1996              United Riceland        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1997              CEAT                  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1997              Owens Coming          25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1997              WIPRO                  10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:             662.86  190.74    1.81  281.53  512.50  166.22  1.81  194.28
Approval Pending Commitment
Lon   Equity  Qui  Partic
1997              AEL                    16.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1996              CESC II -BLINC          0.00    0.00    0.00   37.00
1996      .       DEV CREDIT BANK         0.00    1.89    0.00    0.00
1997              DUNCAN HOSPITAL         7.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1997              EEPL                   0.00    .03    0.00    0.00
1995              IB VALLEY POWER        50.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
1997              ITC CLASSIC           20.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1994              NEYVELI POWER          30.00   18.00    0.00  150.00
1997              NUFSL                   5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1997              SAPL                   0.00    .07    0.00    0.00
1995              SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE       0.00    .86    0.00    0.00
1997              SREI                   15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1996              TARUN SHIPPING          0.00    .80    0.00    0.00
1997              WALDEN - MGMT          0.00    .08    0.00    0.00
1997              WIV                    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    143.00   57.23   10.00  192.00



Annex 10
Page l of 2
India at a glance                                                               8/20/97
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South    Low-
India     Asia  Income        Development dlamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        943.2      1,264    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                               380        380      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               358.4       481    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           1.7       1.9      1.7      GNP
Labor fobre (%)                                          2.0       2.1      1.7pmry
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                        enroliment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               35
Urban population (% of total population)                 27         26       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         62         61       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 68         75       69               Access to safe water
Child mainutrtion (% of children under 5)                63
Access to safe water (% of population)                   63         63       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     48         50       34                /
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaion)    102         98      105            -     windra
Male                                                  113        110      112              Low-ncome group
Female                                                 91        87        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985      1996      1996
Economic ratlos
GDP (billions US$)                            91.0    214.3      328.3    355.8
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 20.8     24.2       26.2     26.5              Openness d economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              6.2      6.0       12.2     12.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    20.4     21.1       23.6     23.9
Gross national savings/GDP                    20.6     21.6       24.0     25.1
Currentaccountbalance/GDP                      0.0     -2.8       -1.8     -1.18
Interest payments/GDP                          0.3      0.6        1.2       ..    Savings                         Investment
Total debtUGDP                                15.1      19.1      28.6     27.6
Total debt servicelexports                    13.1     22.7       28.2
Present value of debtUGDP                        ..      ..       22.8
Present value of debtlexports                   ..       ..    161.4                             Indebtedness
1975-86  1986-96     1996      1996  199746
(average annual growth)                                                                        India
GDP                                   4.2      5.6      7.3        7.5                       Low4ncome gfoup
GNP per capita                        1.9      3.5      5.4        5.2                          ou
Exports of goods and serVices         3.9     11.5     31.6        7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     198)      1996      1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                   40.5      33.0      27.9     27.8      30
Industry                                      23.7     28.1       30.1     29.2      1
Manufacturing                                16.7     17.9      19.7      20.1
Services                                      35.8      38.8      42.1     43.0
Private consumption                           70.2     67.8       65.8     65.6    -1s
General govemment consumption                  9.4      11.1      10.6     10.5                     GDI          GDP
Imports of goods and services                  6.6       9.1      14.9     14.9
1975-8   1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and imports (Y)
Agriculture                                    2.5       3.6      -0.1       5.7     40
Industry                                       5.3      6.6       11.6      7.0
Manufacturing                                 5.5      6.7      13.6       8.1     20
Services                                       5.1      6.7        8.8      7.4
Private consumpton                             4.5      4.8        2.6      7.1       02 9   ' /                           se
General govemment consumption                  6.5      3.9        5.1      6.4                    92   93   94   95    9
Gross domestic investment                      4.1       7.1      17.9      8.5    420
Imports of goods and services                  9.1      6.0       17.3      7.0                    Expots  I      Iports
Gross national product                         4.1       5.4       7.2      6:7
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. All GDP data other than sectoral value-added are in market prices.
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domesticprices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        15
Consumer prices                                ..      5.6       10.2
Implicit GDP deflator                         -1.5     7.5       7.3       7.0    10
Government rinance
(% of GDP)                                                                         0                   I .
Current revenue                                 ..    23.8       24.3       ..            91   92      3    94   95   9S
Current budget balance                          ..     2.2        1.0
Overall surplusideficit                        ..    11.0        10.1                      -GOPdel.    CPI
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  8,793    31,783   33,107      40,000
Tea                                                   1         35
Iron                                                 473        518              30,000
Manufactures                                  ,,   5,640    24,483
Total imports (cit)                            .. 15,957    36,354   38,548        20,5000
Food                                          ..    1,321     1,243
Fuel and energy                                    4,054      7,201      .        000
Capital goods                                 ..   3,502      6,577       ..         o
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..       94        99                     90  91  92  93  94  95  so
Import prce index (1987=100)                   ..       90       121        ..                   Export    r Impors
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                      ..     104        81
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               5,650   12.773    40,181   43,855         -
Imports of goods and services               5990   19,422    48,788   53,087          90  91 |2  |3   94   95   96
Resource balance                             -340   -8.e49    -8,607   -9,232
Net income                                   -150   -1,552     4,157    4,429
Net current transfers                        470    2,207      7,000    9,780      2
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -20   -5,994    -5,764   -3,881      3_
Financing items (net)                          20    6,542      2,040    9,803
Changes in net reserves                         0     -548      3,724   -5,922     4
dremo:
Reserves including gold (rni/l. US$)        2,085    9,493    22,843   24,919
Conversion rate (bocalUUS$)                   8.7     12.2      33.5      35.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1885      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Compositon of total debt 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       13,708   40,960    93,768   98,193
IBRD                                       436    2,398      9,849    8,768                     G       A
IDA                                       2,809    9,750    17,499   17,616                    5049   S849
Total debt service                            822    3,532    13,123   13,742
IBRD                                         89      313      1,714    1,514                                    B
IDA                                          24      124       357      364                                    17499
29280149
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                              511      450       556                       \                      C
Official creditors                        1,260    1,424      -867        ..                                  2374
Private creditors                            83    2,277       775                                            D /
Foreign direct investment                    85      108      1,300                                         2638
Portfolio equity                              0        0      1,517            |                    27097
World Bank program
Commitments                                 917    2,882      1,697    1,725     A A-BRD                     E- 846teraI
Disbursements                              531    1,375      1,318    1,592      8 - IDA    D- Other multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                         63      157     1,170    1,074      C-IMF                       G -Short-efnn
Netflows                                   467    1,218        149      518     __1
Interest payments                            50      280       901      804
Net transfers                              417       938      -752     -287
Development Economics                                                                                               8120197



