Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3012 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Third District Primary Education Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 23, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3012 IN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  February 23, 1998, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower expects to obtain from the United Nations Children’s Fund 
(UNICEF) a grant in an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 to assist in financing part of 
the Project in accordance with UNICEF/Government of India Basic Agreement; and
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and the State of Bihar 
with the assistance of Bihar Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad (BSPP) as well as the 
assistance of the Borrower, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to BSPP the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Bihar;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Bihar” means Borrower’s State of Bihar, or any successor thereto; 
(b)
“BSPP” means Bihar Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad, a registered society under 
the Borrower’s Societies Registration Act; 
(c)
“BSTPC” means Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation; 
(d)
“DIET” means District Institute for Education and Training; 
(e)
“District Level Office” or “DLO” means the district level project office 
established or to be established by BSPP in each Project District to carry out 
day-to-day Project implementation;  
(f)
“DPEP” means the Borrower’s District Primary Education Program and “DPEP 
Guidelines” means the statement adopted by the Government of India in April 1993, as 
amended from time to time, defining the Program;
(g)
“ECE” means early childhood education;
Page  3
(h)
“elementary education” means education provided from class one through 
class eight in schools;
(i)
“EMIS” means educational management information system;
(j)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on 
April l of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following year; 
(k)
“primary education” means education provided in classes 1 through 5; 
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and the 
State of Bihar of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;  
(m)
“Project Districts” means the educational districts in Bihar designated 
as such by the Association; 
(n)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project implementation plan 
prepared by the Borrower and Bihar dated August 1997; 
(o)
“PMIS” means project management information system;
(p)
“SCERT” means State Council of Educational Research and Training; 
(q)
“Scheduled Castes” refers to the population groups specified as 
"Scheduled Castes” pursuant to Article 341 of the Constitution of India; 
(r)
“Scheduled Tribes” refers to the population groups specified as 
"Scheduled Tribes” pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India; 
(s)
“SIEMAT” means the State Institute for Educational Management and 
Training of Bihar to be established or strengthened pursuant to the Project; 
(t)
“Socially Disadvantaged Group Children” refers to children who have 
limited access to educational opportunities, including female, Scheduled Caste, 
Scheduled Tribe and working children and children with mild to moderate learning 
disabilities; 
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(v)
“State Level Office” or “SLO” means the state project office,  
established or to be established by BSPP for the purpose of coordinating Project 
implementation;
(w)
“Sub-District” means a level below the district level, consisting of one 
or more of the following: sub-division, block, panchayat and village, as well as an 
area defined as a cluster by Bihar; and
(x)
“VEC” means village education committee. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred eleven million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 111,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Page  4
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2008 and ending November 15, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2017 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred,   provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
Page  5
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Bihar to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Bihar to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available on a grant 
basis to BSPP under a memorandum of understanding to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BSPP satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
Without prejudice to any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall ensure that BSPP receives adequate resources on a six monthly basis, in a timely 
manner, for anticipated expenditures under its approved annual work plans. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Bihar 
and BSPP pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out in 
Bihar, the DPEP in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and shall not make any change 
to the DPEP or the DPEP Guidelines, including in respect of its financial and 
administrative procedures, which would, in the reasonable opinion of the Association, 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or Bihar or BSPP to carry 
out the Project.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
carry out with the Association, Bihar and other external financiers of 
the Program, including UNICEF, a joint in-depth review of the Project on two occasions 
by December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001; such review to include (i) a status 
report, in both reviews, of the positioning of teachers in the Project Districts based 
on Bihar’s norms, and (ii) a status report, in the latter review, of the proposed 
strategies to sustain the capacities and services developed under the Project, and the 
modalities and framework of cooperation between the Borrower’s Integrated Child 
Development Service and ECE under the Project; and 
Page  6
(c)
duly take into account the comments offered by the Association during 
each such joint review in the course of further implementation of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors, as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Bihar shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Bihar will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
Bihar shall have reduced the level of its budgetary expenditure for 
elementary education (net of Project expenditures) below the level, in constant terms, 
of such expenditure in the Borrower’s FY 1995-96. 
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the UNICEF Grant or any grant made 
to the Borrower 
for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
Page  7
to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraphs (a) 
and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period 
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Bihar and is legally binding upon Bihar in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03.  The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
       953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  8
INDEVAS
       248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Drysdale
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   27,600,000
90%
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
    6,100,000
100% of foreign
books (except
expenditures, 100%
textbooks), teaching
of local expendi-
materials and
tures (ex-factory
furniture
cost) and 80% of
local expnditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Textbooks
   13,200,000
100% of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expnditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)
Consultants' services,
   23,800,000
100%
training, workshops
and fellowships,
except for Parts
B.5(a) and (b), and
Part C.4 of the
Page  9
Project
(5)
Incremental staff
   31,000,000
80% of payments
salaries, incremental
made until March 31,
honoraria for
2000; 55% of payments
volunteers and
made from April 1,
incremental operating
2000 until March 31,
and maintenance costs
2002; and 35% of
payments made
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
   10,100,000
TOTAL
  111,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
(i)
the term “incremental operating and maintenance costs” means the 
incremental 
expenses incurred on or after April 1, 1998 on account of 
Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, vehicle 
operation, travel and supervision 
costs but excluding salaries of officials of 
the Borrower's civil 
service; 
(ii)
the term “incremental staff salaries” means salaries paid in 
respect of posts 
created for the Project, including consulting or 
contractual services, on or 
after January 1, 1998; and
(iii)
the term “incremental honoraria for volunteers” means honoraria 
paid for 
volunteers to carry out activities under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 4,600,000 may be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after August 15, 1997; 
(b)
in respect of payments incurred in or with respect to Bihar until BSPP 
has entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement; and
(c)
in respect of payments over SDR 2,300,000 under Category 3 until Bihar 
has furnished evidence satisfactory to the Association that BSTPC has adopted and 
followed procedures acceptable to the Association for the procurement of printing 
services for the textbooks financed under the Credit.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works under 
contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (b) vehicles under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (c) incremental staff salaries, incremental honoraria 
for volunteers and incremental operating and maintenance costs; (d) goods, other than 
vehicles, under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (e) services under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each for employment of consulting 
firms; and (f) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for 
employment of individual consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to build and strengthen Bihar’s State, 
District and Sub-District institutional capacity to ensure that more children, 
especially Socially Disadvantaged Group Children, complete a five-year primary 
education cycle of appropriate quality in Bihar’s low literacy districts.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Access to Primary Education
Expanding access, particularly for Socially Disadvantaged Group Children, to 
primary education by: 
1.
(a)
Construction of new schools and classrooms and repairing and 
rehabilitating existing facilities to create approximately 400,000 new student places; 
and (b) establishing a School Construction Innovation Fund to facilitate research, 
experimentation and evaluation of alternative cost-effective school facilities 
construction techniques and to finance the construction of prototypes of such 
facilities.
2.
Sanctioning about 5,700 new teaching positions and appointing teachers.
3.
Developing and implementing targeted interventions, including alternative 
schooling and special education program, to enhance the delivery of Project benefits, 
particularly to Socially Disadvantaged Group Children. 
4.
Mobilizing school and community organizations and carrying out awareness 
campaigns in support of education.
5.
Establishment of a VEC for each school in the Project Districts.
Part B:
Retention and Learning Achievement
Increasing the retention rate and improving the learning achievements in primary 
schools by:
1.
Selectively establishing new and strengthening existing early childhood 
education centers to encourage learning, especially among children from illiterate 
households.
2.
Supporting interventions for women’s education and empowerment programs (Mahila 
Samakhya).
3.
Installing toilets and water facilities in primary schools.
4.
Establishing block and cluster resource centers to operate in-service teacher 
training activities.
5.
Provision of continuous in-service teacher training, and supply of instructional 
materials for such training, including (a) ten-day teacher empowerment module and 
related training, and (b) state-level development of training modules and training for 
master trainers.
6.
Developing improved instructional materials by, inter alia: (i) basing them on 
minimum levels of learning; (ii) field testing them prior to their adoption; (iii) 
improving the design, illustration, layout and durability of instructional materials; 
and (iv) providing professional training for instructional materials agency staff.
7.
Supplying new and improved instructional materials to schools and children in 
the Project Districts in accordance with DPEP Guidelines.
8.
Carrying out periodic primary student learning assessments.
9.
Provision of grants to schools, community organizations and individual teachers 
Page  11
for school improvement, and provision of teaching aides.
Part C:
State and District Institutional Capacity
Improving State and District capacity to manage primary education by: 
1.
Building and strengthening state and district program management structures to 
review and supervise the implementation of state and district investment plans and 
annual work plans and budget that are designed to enhance access to and improve the 
quality and efficiency of primary education.
2.
Establishing and strengthening: (i) state and district resource institutions, 
such as SCERT, SIEMAT and BSTPC at the state level and DIETs or equivalent 
institutions in all Project Districts; and (ii) resource groups at the state level and 
in all Project Districts, to provide technical support in Project implementation. 
3.
Strengthening the capacity for monitoring, research and evaluation, and carrying 
out related activities. 
4.
Development of training modules for micro-planning and VEC training and training 
of master trainers. 
5.
Establishment of a facility to support innovative approaches to improve primary 
education.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $4,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
Page  12
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  13
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
