Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No.5395-HA
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 12, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officijd duties. Its contents mzy not otherwise be disclosed wvithout World Bank autborization.



a  EQWAES
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
US$0.20 = G 1
US$1 = G 5
The gourde has since 1919 beeu pegged to the US dollar at the rate G of 5 =
US$1.
REICRTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
km = kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
m = meter (1 m = 3.28 feet)
m2 = 10.76 ft2
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACADEMC YEAR
October 1 - June 1
ABBREVIATIONS ADM ACRONYS
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
IDB       -  Inter-American Develoment Bank
INAGHEI   -  National Institute for Management Administration and Higher
International Studies
INFP      -  National Institute for Vocational Training
IPN       -  National Pedagogical Institute
MEN       -  Ministry of Education
MEnSoc    -  Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
PIU       -  Projet Implementation Unit
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID     -  United States AgerLcy for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ......................................._.   i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................   ii
I.  THE SECTOR   . ...............................   I
Issues  .......                                     ......... .........   I
Government Strategy ................................,.,               3
IDA's Role  e... ........                  ...... ........   5
Public Administration .......................   6
II. THE PROJECT . .........                    . ....................   6
Project Objectives and Description              .... .        .      6
Detailed Features of Project Components          7............O ...   7
Implenent the Basic Education Reform .         .....................   7
Introduce Vocational/Technical Training Reform                     8
Strengthen Sector Management                      .       .9
Improve Public Administration Training                            10
Project Execution    ..10
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements                           11
Procurement .................*.        .12
Benefits ..... 1-3
Risks ,                           ..... 13
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATIONS ........................  15
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators               ..16
2.  Evolution of Enrollments in the Public and Private Sector .....   18
3.  The Vocational/Technical Training System               .      .        19
4.  Status of the Basic Education Reform              ..                   23
5.  Government Expenditure on Education, Recurrent and Development   35
Budget Forecasts and Actual, 1976/77-1984/85..
6.  Detailed Project Description               ...........................  36
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited
Haiti in February and March 1984. The appraisal mission consisted of
Ms. J. de Regt (Sociologist, mission leader) and Messrs. K. Bahr (Economist),
R. Sack (Educational Planner, Consultant), S. Syrimis (Vocational/Technical
Educator, Unesco) and E. Vergara (Architect, consultant). A post-appraisal
mission consisting of the same people visited Haiti in Septepber 1984.
Thi documnct has a Istonsterddistnm utionoandmays be used byreous ony in theperfonae of
toir ofr=W duties. Itscontent may not otoenwis be discsed without World Bank autorization



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
7.  Project Management and Implementation .......................   47
8.  Project Costs and Financing          .................................   53
9.  Disbursements ...** .........*.......***...*.......**.. ....   59
10.  Procurement, Accounts and Auditing ................... ......   61
11.  Benefits and Risks ...                 ...        *..**..... ....   66
12.  Documents Contained in the Project File ........... ..........    70
CHARTS
1.  Old and New Education Systems.................................  72
2.  Ministry of Education:  Organizational Structure ..............  73
3.  Project Unit Organization Chart ..............................  74
4.  Implementation Schedule...... ................................  75
MAP



- i -
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
BASIC DATA
(1981/82)
ENROLLNENTS
Prim. School
Age Pop.                     Enrollment Rates
(6-12 yr.)       Enrollments  Gross Z    Net Z
Primary Education:            916,100          658,102       71.8       47.0
Urban                281,200           305,630     108.7        76.5
public  :                             134,909
private :                             170,721
Rural.               634,900           352,472      55.5        34.0
public  :                             147,457
private :                             205,015
Secondary Education:
total  : 95,600, of which 65Z is enrolled in lower three grades.
public              15,868
private  :          79,732
TEACHING FORCE                                  Student/Teacher
Ratio
Primary Level:                14,922                  44.1
Urban          7,686                   39.7
public       3,272                   41.2
private  :  4,414                    38.6
Rural      :  7,236                    48.7
public   :  2,215                    66.6
private  :  5,021                    40.8
Secondary Level:               4,239                  22.6
public         807                   19.7
private      3,432                   23.2
EDUCATION FINANCE                 (US$ million)
Public Recurrent Expenditures:       17.2
Investment Expenditures:       13.9
Subtetal:                31.1
GDP                         : 1,626.6
Public Education Expenditures as Z of GDP : 1.9
LITERACY RATE (1980): 23%



- ii -
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Repr lic of Haiti.
Beneficiaries:     Th-   aistries of Education, and the Presidency.
Amount:            SDR 10.4 million (US$10.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard IDA terms.
Co-Financing:      Swiss Government, SwF 15 million grant (about US$6
million equivalent).
Project Descrip.:  The credit would help finance the Government's education
reform program (grades 1-10), by continuing with basic
education reform, initiating a reform of the
vocational/technical training system and strengthening
the education sector management. In addition, a
public administration inservice training program
would be started.
Risks:             Private sector participation is essentiL- for achieving
full coverage of the reform; Government contributions
for recurrent and investment budgets may not be
forthcoming in a timely fashion or sufficient amounts;
sustained investments are needed in the sector to ensure
implementation of full reform and realize benefits from
the investment under this and previous projects.
These risks would be minimized through provision of
incentives to and improvement of coordination with the
private sector; inclusion of all recurrent and
investment expenditures in the project to alert the
Goveriment; and through semi-annual budget reviews and a
dialogue on medium term requirements.



- iii -
Estimated Costs: *                                      Local   Foreign   Total
-US$ million
Basic Education                    8.1       3.4     11.5
Experimentation Vocational/        1.1       1.7      2.8
Technical Education
Education Sector Management        0.8       1.3      2.1
Public Administration              0.8       0.9      1.7
Project Preparation                1.5       0.7      2.2
and Administration
Baseline Costs      12.3      8.0     20.4
Physical Conitingencies            0.2       0.4      0.6
Price Contingencies                0.6       0.7      1.3
Total               13.2      9.1     22.3
Financing Plan:                     Local        Foreign             Total
-SS million    -
Government     5.4           0.9                6.3
IDA            4.3           5.7               10.0
Switzerland    3.5           2.5                6.0
13.2          9.1               22.3
Estimated
Disburse'ments:                          -US  million
FY86     FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual              2.3      2.3     2.4      2.0     1.0
Cumulative          2.3      4.6     7.0      9.0    10.0
Rate of Return:       n.a.
No. IBRD 18650R
* Differences due to rounding. No taxes are included.



CHAPTER I. THE SECTOR
Background
1.01      Haiti's one abundant resource, human resources, is ill-developed.
The majority of the population lives in absolute poverty and adult literacy
is around 23%, one of the lowest in the world. The most promising source of
future growth for the Haitian economy, at least in the short term, is
industrial exports.  This requires not only basic education but an
appropriate level of vocational training. Even for the medium term, only a
better trained workforce can modernize and increase agricultural producrion.
Recognizing these needs, the Government has formulated a program for the
comprehensive revitalization of the whole education system, both in
organizational and pedagogical terms.
Issues
1.02      General education in Haiti had a late start.  Traditionally,
education had been largely an ecclesiastical function, directed to developing
urban elite.  French pedagogical values and methods still dominate the
education system and are particularly visible at the secondary level. In
fact, the language used for instruction is French, although the major.lty of
people (80%) speak Creole. During the 1920s, under the influence of the
United States, a considerable number of schools for peasants were developed
and later integrated into the public primary education system.  In more
recent years, the principal benchmark in educational development has been the
establishment of the University of Haiti (1944); the submission of most
educational activities to the supervision of the Ministry of Education
(1978); aud the commencement of the Educational Reform (1982). Public
education at all levels has never been free in Haiti: the parents pay
tuition, and for textbooks and obligatory uniforms. However, they have to
pay between 50% to 90% more per student for private education than for public
schools. In number of graduates and classrooms, the private sector continues
to play a very important role, accounting for 522 of primary and 792 of
secondary enrollments.  It is faced with problems of quality and efficiency
similar to if not more serious than those encountered by the public sector.
1.03      At present and during most of the current decade,(since the
introduction of the education reform will be a gradual process), the formal
school system will continue to comprise six years of primary and seven years
of secondary schooling leading to the baccalaureat certificate. Tertiary
education is offered at the State University which has several faculties and
specialized institutions and the Higher Teacher  raining College.  In 1981,
of the total number of persons receiving some type of education, 85% was in
primary schools, 11% in secondary and 4% in higher education.  This situation
has remained unchanged for the past 10 years.
1.04      Access and Enrollments.  While Haiti nearly doubled enrollments at
all levels over the past 10 years, mostly through expansion in the private
sector (Annex 2), in 1983/8' only 53% of the primary school age population
was able to attend school. It is estimated that at least 9,700 additional
classrooms are required to accommodate every child that should be enrolled,



- 2 -
and 8,400 need to be located in rural areas. In addition, socioeconomic
factors such as reliance on child labor and cost of education to families
prevent enrollments from increasing rapidly.  In urban areas these
constraints are not as pressing and the Government could achieve adequate
coverage by introducing double shifts.
1.05      Low Quality.  Quality constraints affect all public and private
rural schools. Private urban schools fare better; private rural schools (the
majority of all primary schools) are the worst. Public expenditure is low
(US$30 per student compared to US$50-80 per student in Latin America) and 95%
is for teacher salaries. Yet this translates into salaries so low that the
education system fails to recruit or retain fully qualified teachers (81% of
the teachers have less than eight years of schooling). Parents are expected
to provide textbooks for their children; because many cannot afford to do so,
only one out of every four rural children attending school has access to a
textbook. Finally, the curriculum is ill-adapted and is taught in French, a
language which only 20% of the Haitian people speak.
1.06      Low Efficiency.  The coustraints in access and quality impair
educational efficiency. Only 52Z of the urban children who enroll, and 34%
of the rural children, complete grade 4. Repetition rates are also high,
hovering around 25Z. The consequence of this low efficiency is wastage of
scarce resources.  On average, it takes 20 studentyears to produce one grade
6 graduate in rural areas (15 studentyears in urban areas). However, urban
private schools are nearly rhree times as efficient, producing one grade 6
graduate after seven studentyears; rural private schools are the least
efficient.
1.07      Public Versus Private Sector.  Due to the large role the private
sector plays in education, the Government has difficulty promoting nationwide
educational reforms and assuring standardization and quality in the
curriculum. At the primary level, the private sector provides 70% of all
schools and 47% of all student places. The Government is finding it
increasingly difficult to provide funds to cover luvestment and recurrent
costs for the expansion of the public education system; the issue is to
strengthen Government's jurisdiction over private schools so that it can
assure the overall quality of education without affecting the incentive of
the private sector to increase their involvement.
1.08      Vocational/Technical Education.  There are nine lower secondary and
four upper secondary vocational centers in Haiti operated by the M;inistry of
Education (MEN), with an annual output of 398 students. In addition, the
Hinistry of Social Affairs (MinSoc) operates six training centers, offering
inservice training programs; around 560 people participated in 1983/84.
Vocational and technical education suffers from a serious lack of
coordination and standardization of training programs and relevance to the
industrial and informal sectors.
1.09      The National Instftute for Vocational Training (INFP), responsible
for coordination and quality of these programs, has no jurisdiction over the
schools and therefore, negligible influence.  While the inservice training
for instructors and the on-the-job training for workers provided by INFP have
been satisfactory, tra4.nirg programs of lower and upper secondary centers
under MEN and MinSoc have been long and academic, lacking hands-on experience



in well-equipped workshops. Unit costs are high, efficiency is low, and
quality of graduates unsatisfactory. For more information, see Annex 3.
Governmenc Strategy
1.10      Education Reform.  To deal with these issues in primary and
vocational/technical education, the Government introduced a comprehensive
reform of the education sector .n 1982 that calls for a gradual
restructuring of the entire s'stem and improving quality, thereby making it
more efficient. The reform started wlth grade 1 in 1982 and in 1983/84, 40
percent of the grade 1 children in public and private Fchools were being
taught by reform methods. During the first phase (1982-85), a new structure
of a 3 cycle system for basic education (4-3-3 years, 10 years in total) was
introduced to achieve minimum literacy in 4 years. To promote quick
assimilation, Creole was adopted as language of instruction in the first
cycle (grades 1-4) instead of French. New and practical curricula were
developed, were tested and are beinig used for grades 1, 2 and 3, and are now
being tested for grades 4, 5 and 6.  Textbooks and teaching aids in Creole
were prepared, tested, and printed. Through teacher training programs,
teachers were trained to change the method of instruction from one requiriug
passive memorization to one which encourages active student involvement.
Automatic promotion was introduced between certain grades to increase
efficiency. The student learning environment was upgraded through adequate
provision of furniture, teaching aids and textbooks. A Teacher Charter was
promulgated to establish a professional accreditation system, appropriate
salary levels and career prospects. Finally, the inspector corps was
reorganized to assist teachers with pedagogical support and evaluation. For
more iLformation, see Annex 4.
1.11      During t4Ae second phase of the reform (1985-88) the follo-wing
objectives would be sought for basic education: (a) to continue introducing
the new structure and programs in grades 4-6, aud testing new curricula for
grades 5-9 and providing new textbooks, teaching aids, teacher training,
pedagogical support, and evaluation programs; (b) to strengthen the working
conditions of inspectors by providing them with transportation and office
equipment; and (c) to continue implementing the Teacher Charter including
increasing salaries and providing upgrading programs for underqualified
teachers. In addition, the Government will (a) strengthen two major sector
institutions: the Ministry of Edlization (MEN), and the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN); (b) clarify t;e roles of MEN, IPN, and the Basic Education
Reform Committee established by MEN in 1984; and (c) incorporate the private
sector in the ongoing reform. The Government must also make decisions on the
following major issues: (a) in which grade to introduce French as the major
language of instruction; (b) how much to increase the family share of
educational cost; (c) when and how to include overage children who represent
50% of the school population.
1.12      The Government has recently reorganized MEN, changing its persounel
and payroll procedures, and introducing an organizational structure more
relevant to the reform such as the creation of a department to coordinate
private/public sector education.  Moreover, it promulgated a decree on IPN's
role and organization, which clarifies the respective roles of IPN and the
Reform Committee. The Reform Committee Is responsible for monitoring the
progress of reform implementation and IPN's Monitoring Unit for monitoring



and evaluating achievement in the classrooms.  Finally, in order to monitor
the implementation carefully, the Government would (a) review the progress
achieved in carrying out the reform under the Basic Education Reform Law and
Vocational/Technical Training Law, and make adiustments required in the
reform implementation plan satisfactory to IDA before the beginning of each
school year; (b) discuss with IDA all measures to be undertaken in the
private sector for the implementation of the reform; and (c) conduct the
first countrywide examination for grade 7 in June 1987 to firmly establish
the new standard for primary education.
1.13      Vocational/Technical Training.  As part of the general reform of
the education sector, the Government has decided to introduce new curricula
more adapted to the labor demands of Haitian economy at the semiskilled,
skilled worker, and technician levels and to reduce unit costs by introduciug
a new structure which should improve the efficiency of the system. It has
also decided to strengthen the management and the role of INFP. Thus a law
on vocational/technical training was promulgated defining INFP's
responsibilities, which include full iurisdiction over the subsector, and the
roles and function of other institutions. Under the same law, the INFP's
council would be reinstated to promote regular contacts with employees of
informal and industrial sectors, and to make training relevant to their
needs.  The existing system of trainilg was restructured introducing
vocational training centers to replace inefficient lower secondary vocational
schools, and technical centers to replace upper secondary vocational
schools. In the vocational centers, two types of programs would be offered:
(a) a three year, formal training program for youths with seven years of
basic education with direct access to the labor market after each year and a
possibility of following special general education courses to enable
reintegration into the academic third cycle; and (b) nonformal training
courses for youths and adults at all levels.  In the technical centers,
formal education would be offered to those who had 10 years of basic
education, and inservice training would be provided for technicians already
in the labor market.  Production methodologies and entrepreneurial aspects
have been incorporated and contacts made with local organizations such as the
Haitian Industrial Development Fund to organize a credit system for course
graduates. Finally, the Government is expected to identify ways for the
private sector to gradually improve and expand their contributior to
vocational training.
1.14      Government Allocations.  Despite its commitment to the reform,
Government allocations for the education sector have oscillated around
14-15 percent of the Government budget during the past 9 years (Annex 5). In
1981/82, the share of GDP going to education represented only 1.9 percent.
Both indicators are low compared with other countries having comparable
income levels. The recent effort to finance the Teacher Charter is
commendable, but it is doubtful that the Government can continue to fund the
total incremental salaries in the present economic crisis without assistance
from aid agencies.  The actions taken under the reform should increase
quality and efficiency, thereby reducing wastage of resources; MEN's decision
to arrest the growth of the public primary education system in order to
finance the Teacher Charter is an example.  The Government agreed during
negotiations upon the amount of funds it would provide to satisfy the
recurrent expenditure requirements of the project, and a timetable for their
payments.  However, MEN also needs to carry out an indepth analysis of its
budget allocation practices and the process of selecting priorities.  It



-5 -
needs to formulate a long term action plan to reduce expenditures in areas of
lesser priority. During the second phase of reform, with the assistance of
IDA, MEN intends to take these steps (para. 1.11). Moreover, as indicated
above (para. 1.13), MEN will examine ways to increase private sector
contributions, especially in the vocational/technical field. IDA will review
this process during supervision and sector missions in FY86, in order to
arrive at an acceptable proposal by October 1986.
IDA's Role
1.15      Together with the other major donors and UN agencies, IDA
has assisted the Government prepare and implement the general education
reform for almost a decade. Thus under the first project (Cr. 618-HA,
US$5.5 million appraised in 1976 and closed in December 1981), IDA helped to
improve teacher training and to draft an Organic Law to reorganize MEN in
addition to improving access for the urban and rural primary schools. I The
project suffered about a year's delay due to lack of timely release of
counterpart fundco and difficulties in constructing widely dispersed rural
schools. Under the second project (Cr. 770-HA, US$10 million, approved in
F      v 1978 and closed Ln December 1984) (a) Creole was selected as the
language of instruction for primary education; (b) urban and rural primary
school systems, which were under the jurisdiction of two different
ministries: ME.N and the Ministry of Agriculture, were integrated and placed
under MEN; (c) the Organic Law of MEN was promulgated; and (d) the Teacher
Charter was drafted. In fact the project established the basis of the
current reform (i.e. curriculum development, teacher accreditation,
production of new textbooks). The project also succeeded in improving
access, although it took time to complete the construction component,
especially that of the vocational/technical schools because of late release
of counterpart funds (approximately a one year delay). The third project
(Cr. 1305-HA, US$9 million, approved in November 1982) continues to support
the education reform by financing curriculum development, teacher training,
and pedagogical support and evaluation. Project implementation is one year
behind schedule. The Government took longer than expected to take a major
decision on the educational reform and the slow release of counterpart funds
prevented the construction component from starting. Recently, the
Government, with the agreement of IDA, has decided to stop the expansion of
public basic education system in favor of the quality improvement.
Therefore, the construction component is expected to be reduced in scope.
Mcauwhile, the Government is providing all required counterpart funds
satisfactorily.
1.16      In addition to the country's serious fiscal situation, the major
reasons for the delay in provision of Goverument contributions are (a) the
Government's inability to properly plan for development and recurrent budgets
and (b) cumbersome procedures for disbursing the funds, both available and
budgeted. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will
annually review with IDA (a) the budeet requirements and proposals (March)
and the adequacy of development funds provided for the education sector
(September); and (b) the adequacy of the recurrent funds provided for
carrying out the project (September).
1.17      The Government's present program of reform is sound.  Since 1978,
when it embarked on the long term process to improve the quality and access
to education, it has made major strides.  The Canadian and French
1/ Audit Report No. 4605 of June 30, 1983.



-6-
Governments, and UN agencies have all coutributed to this effort. However,
IDA has been the major donor in this 20 year endeavor, and is expected to
continue playing that role over the medium term. By December 31, 1986, the
Government would discuss with IDA the 1987-91 Education Sector Investment
Plan to ensure the availability of financing for the coutinuation of the
educational reform.
Public Administration
1.18      The weakness of the central administration has been identified as a
major constraint to improving allocation and use of the country's resources.
In 1982, the Government passed a series of laws to (a) establish uniform
regulations for civil service, and salaries and pensions for civil servants;
(b) provide career development and job security; and (c) eliminate the
practice of public servants holding multiple positions. A National
Commission for Public Administration and Civil Service was established under
the Presidency to supervise the implementation. Part of this reform has
begun to be introduced in the Ministries of Health and Education (para.
1.10), with the help of USAID and IDA, respectively. The Canadian Government
provided assistance to strengthen the National Institute for Management
Administration and Higher International Studies. For inservice training, the
Government created a Public Administration Center under the National
Commission to amalgamate existing institutes operated by individual
ministries ard coordinate all inservice public administration training.
1.19      The civil service reform is a formidable undertaking and will take
years to complete.  Under a Technical Assistarce Project under preparation,
IDA is expected to review the status of the reform and assist the Government
in devising a practical program of action which would enable the continuation
of the reform. Meanwhile, the proposed education project would provide
urgently required support for the Public Administration Center and finance
inservice training in financial management and accounting.
CHAPTER II. THE PROJECT
2.01      Appraisal of the project took place in March 1984 and, due to a
reduction in scope dictated by a reduction in the availability of IDA funds,
a post-appraisal mission reviewed the project in September 1984.  These
missions were preceded by an identification/sector mission in October 1983
arnd a preparation mission in December 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington, DC from March 20 to March 25, 1985, and the Haitian delegation
was led by Mr. Gerard Dorcely, Minister of Education.
Project Objectives and Description
2.02      The proposed project would support (a) the second phase of the
education reform, including vocational/technical training and (b) training in
public administration by providing financing for:
(i) MEN's incremental salary bill for basic education staff:
inspectors, teachers, and directors of schools (a total of some
8,400 persons) and salaries for 55 staff of IPN, and INFP
(US$5.6 million);



- 7 -
(ii)  equipment and furniture for the IPN, INFP, Public Administration
Center, and 200 primary schools, and vehicles for inspectors, M(EN,
and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (USS3.3 million);
(iii) civil works for the rehabilitation of vocational/technical schools,
and INFP, and construction of the fourth floor of the National
Institute for Management Administration (INAGHEI) to house the
Public Administration Center (US$1.1 million);
(iv)  1,015,000 textbooks (US$2.8 million);
(v) technical assistance and consultancies-314 months of foreign
experts and 340 months of local experts for all institutions
involved in the project (US$3.4 million);
(vi)  fellowships-213 months of study abroad for the staff of IPN,
technical schools, INFP, the Public Administration Center, MEN
(US$0.3 million);
(vii)  training programs for teachers, directors and inspectors
(US$2.2 million);
(viii)  project administration (US$1.2 million); and
(ix)  operational costs-maintenance of vehicles, gasoline, office
supplies, and per diem for the staff of IPN, and INFP on mission to
rural areas (US$2.3 million).
Detailed Features of Project Components
A. Implement the Basic Education Reform
2.03      Improvement of Working Conditions.  To improve the working
conditions of inspectors and teachers enabling them to work efficiently, and
to reduce staff turnover, 120 inspectors and 16 regional pedagogical centers
would be provided with office equipment, materials, vehicles, mules and funds
to cover their operational costs and maintenance. Under the Teacher Charter,
all teachers, directors and inspectors for basic education, (about 8,400)
have received or will receive over the next four years a salary increase in
comparison with the 1983/84 situation. Given the pivotal role of teachers,
directors and inspectors in the reform, and the present economic crisis which
prevents large increases in MEN's recurrent budget, IDA would finance the
incremental costs of the increasing salary bill for MEN (due to wage
Increases, improved qualifications and hiring of teacher training college
graduates) on a decreasing scale. The Government provided assurances that it
would finance 60% of the incremental salary bill in 1985/86, 75% in 1986/87,
80% in 1987/88 and 84% in 1988/89. The Government would submit a statement
at the end of each quarter, stating the number of staff in each category.
Disbursements would be made for the numbers presented, or those in Annex 6,
Table 1 and 2, whichever is lower.
2.04      Qualitative Improvements.  Curricula would be developed for grades
5-9, and already tested curricula would be introduced in grades 4-6. The
project would finance local and international technical assistance. Because



-8-
objectives and detailed curricula for grades 5-7 and 8-10 are not yet known,
the Government agreed to review with IDA detailed objectives by cycle and
grade annually (as they are developed).
2.05      Free educational materials would be provided for all teachers and
students in public and private schools in the experimental phase (grades
4-9). About 700,000 text- and workbooks, and about 1C5,000 teacher guides
would be produced and distributed during project implementation. After the
experimentation phase, the project would distribute 30,000 sets of teacher
guides, text- and workbooks to teachers in public and private sector reform
classrooms, and about 180,000 sets of textbooks (at a ratio of one boo' per
four students) for classroom use by poor children. In addition, the project
would finance technical assistance, staff salaries, equipment and furniture
for IPN's Didactic Materials Unit. The Government provided assurances that
all materials would be marked free- and would not be resold.
2.06      During project implementation, about 13,000 teachers for
grades 1-10 and 1,200 directors from both the public and the private sector
would be trained. Teachers would receive inservice training in the new
curricula and teaching methodologies. Those completing a sequence of
training courses would earn a teacher training college equivalency
certificate, resulting in a higher salary -under the Teacher Charter.
Directors worl d receive four weeks of training in teaching methodology and in
supervisory/management skills. Courses would be given by qualified
inspectors at regional centers. IPN would supervise and provide inservice
training for the inspectors. All courses exist and are adjusted each summer
based on the results of previous experience. The project would finance staff
salaries for IPN's training unit and all training costs for public and rural
private schools.
2.07      The monitoring and evaluation unit of IPN is responsible for
(a) evaluation of the experimental program and (b) pedagogical evaluation of
internal and external factors influencing student achievement. These studies
were started under Cr. 1305-HA and are technically sound. The project would
finance all costs of the unit, and provide it with technical assistance and a
training program. The project would also provide furniture and equipment for
the equivalent of about 210 classrooms in the South East and Central
Departments.
B. Introduce Vocational/Technical Training Reform
2.08      To provide education and training opportunities for an increased
number of children, youths and adults, the project would assist the
Government to carry out the reform in five vocational training centers, one
to be remodelled and equipped under the project. If after two years of
project implementation the new structure and the curriculum are considered
satisfactory, then the new curriculum would be adopted by two additional
vocational centers which would be remodelled and equipped by the project. To
address the need for a limited number of well-trained technicians in the
industrial sector, the project would also assist the Government in improving
the quality of education provided in the four technical training centers,
each offering different specializations. The project would finance the
remodelling and equipping of workshops, technical assistance for curriculum
development, and scholarships for instructor upgrading.



- 9 -
2.09      In principle, all training ceuters could operate in two shifts.
The first shift would be for the formal pz-grams, while tht second shift
would provide a variety of courses open to all interested individuals,
regardless of age and educational background adapted to the needs of their
working environments. MinSoc already offers such programs.  Illiterate
youths and adults would have to follow a literacy course conducted by the
National Literacy and Community Action Office at the request of and in
collaboration with each center's personnel. As a first experiment, MinSoc
would offer afternoon adult training programs in the Carrefour Center.
C. Strengthen Sector Management
2.10      The project would strengthen MEN, IPN and INFP. To improve MEN's
information system, the project would finance the purchase of a computer to
facilitate the compilation of a data base which integrates data on personnel
files, schoolmapping, payroll and training programs.  MEN would also carry
out studies on its own policies, concerning (a) factors affecting teacher
motivation and turnover; (b) recurrent budget allocation practices, including
ways of reallocating expenditures of either MEN or parents to make free or
subsidized books more generally available; and (c) integration of overage
children in reform programs. To address the problems of inadequate
classrooms, school furniture and equipment, maintenance and repair, and
planning for school construction, the project would provide technical
assistance to MEN for organizing a School Cow.truction Directorate,
and for carrying out a schoolmapping study and studies on construction norms
and community participation in school maintenance. Data from the
schoolmapping study would provide the basis for an inventory of public
schools and their physical status, and for a proposal or. the extent to which
double shifts can be introduced in public schools. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to a schedule of execution for the studies, organization of
the School Construc;tion Directorate and the presentation of proposals for
timetables for implementing double shifts in public schools. The project
would finance IPN's three staff positions in training program management,
personnel management, planning and programming, and a position for a
statistician with computer skills.
2.11      The project would remodel and equip some of INFP's facilities, and
provide INFP with technical assistance for management and organization, and
with fellowships to improve staff quality. Key administrative staff would
receive training in administration, recordkeeping, storage of supplies, etc.
A systematic program to determine training requirements and to carry out job
analysis would be set up. Supervision of training centers would be improved
through upgrading courses for 40 inspectors, center directors anid chief
instructors, and by establishing a systematic supervision methooology.
Experimentation with new curricula for the vocational and technical training
centers would take place and INFP would train 240 instructors. In addition,
the project would assist INFP in carrying out the following pilot activities
and studies which could lead to regular programs: (a) a program for training
small entrepreneurs (b) a study on training needs of women in the labor
force, and (c) an audiovisual program to encourage the female population to
actively participate in vocational training programs (which were only
recently opened to them). In order to keepsthe trained instructors, the
Government provided assurances that the salary scale for the vocational/
technical subsector staff would be revised by October 1985, and would be put



- 10 -
into effect in accordance with a timetable satisfactory with IDA.
D. Improve Public Administration Training
2.12      The project would assist in establishing an inservice training
center for public administration and improving the accountants' inservice
training pro ram. The project would finance the construction of this center
(about 600 mZ) as the top floor of a new building of the National Institute
for Management Administration being constructed with CIDA financing.
This new building would also house a library for both iustitutions. The
project would also finance equipment for the center, including books,
audiovisual equipmert and materials for the library. In addition, the
project would finance consultant services to determine training needs, to
teach and to train key staff, as well as fellowships for key staff. The
center would provide training courses of three to four months duration for
middle and higher level staff, mostly in managerial and financial areas.
2.13      To upgrade the quality of accounting in the public administration,
the project would finance international technical assistance for the
accountant diploma courses at the National Institute for Management
Administration. The experts would provide instruction in those aspects for
which no Haitian experts are available at present, namely use of computers in
accounting, auditing and accounting theory.
Project Execution
2.14      Responsibility for project administration would rest with the
existing PIU, which has successfully implemented Cr. 618-HA, Cr. 770-HA and
is carrying out Cr. 1305-HA (Annex 7). It has recently been reorganized and
staffed in a manner satisfactory to IDA. Under Cr. 1305-HA, the PIU is
directly responsible for implementation of the construction program; upon
completion of that project, it is expected that those functions and staff
would be transferred to the School Construction Directorate. This would
facilitate the development of a PIU which would be responsible for
coordinating and monitoring of programs to be carried out by existing units
in different ministries.  To improve coordination among these ministries, MEN
would organize meetings of the Consultative Council formed by the Ministers
of Education, the Presidency, and of Planning and Finance. The PIU's plan of
action would be based on available Government funds and the annual work
programs which each agency would submit before July 15. This new procedure
would assist the Government in increasing efficiency and accountability of
its agencies. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would form the
Council.  The working arrangements between the Council and the PIU have been
agreed upon during negotiations. The PIU would be responsible for preparing
periodic progress reports on the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the
project. Reports would be sent on a semiannual basis to IDA, the Council and
all implementing agencies.                  1
2.15      The project would finance staff and operational costs of the PIU
from July 1986 to July 1989. Before that date all costs, including the cost
of new staff, would be financed under Cr. 1305-HA. In addition, funds would
be made available to employ consultants (12 staffmonths) to assist in
monitoring and supervision. The costs of auditing the accounts of the
project unit and implementing agencies have also been included.



- 11 -
2.16      Through use of a project preparation facility (PPF), project
preparation is at an advanced state. Master furniture and equipment lists
were approved during appraisal for all components.  Remodelling of technical
training schools would start in August 1985, for which all final designs are
under preparation. Preliminary designs and tender documents have been
prepared and bids have been invited for the Public Administration Training
Center in order to conform to the construction schedule established by the
Government and CIDA for the National Institute of Management Administration.
Evaluation of the bids would take place in March and construction would start
about July 1985. Project implementation is expected to be completed in about
five years. The main investments, however, would be made during the three
school years, 1985/86 to 1987/88. The project completion date would be March
31, 1990, and the closing date, September 30, 1990.
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements
2.17      The total cost of the project is estimated at about
US$22.3 million, net of taxes (Annex 8). These costs include the additional
operational expenditures to be financed by the ministries involved in the
project. The costs also include a PPF of USS500,000 approved in December
1983 and a second tranche of US$420,000 approved in December 1984. The total
foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$9.1 million, or about
41 percent of total project costs, net of taxes. The proposed IDA credit of
SDR 10.4 million (US$10 million equivalent) on standard terms would finance
about 62 percent of the foreign costs and 45 percent of total costs. On the
basis of the co-financing agreement between IDA and the Swiss Government of
October 30, 1984, the Swiss Government's contribution of SwF 15 million would
finance 27 percent of total costs. The Swiss Government is financing a share
(58%) of the software aspects of the project (technical assistance, training
courses, professional fees, studies, fellowships, textbooks, workbooks,
teacher guides, staff salaries, and operational costs). As a condition of
effectiveness the Government would be requested to furnish satisfactory
evidence that the Financial Cooperation Agreement with the Swiss Government
had been duly signed and ratified, and that all conditions precedent to
effectiveness of said agreement had been fulfilled. Expenditures incurred
prior to the signature of the Development Credit Agreement and after October
1, 1984 for the construction of the Public Administration Center, not
exceeding US$O.1 million, are proposed for retroactive financing.
2.18      Cost estimates are expressed in March 1985 prices based on March
1984 prices and actual costs obtained under Credits 770-HA and 1305-HA. The
price contingencies (US$1.3 million) have been calculated based on the
following assumptions: (a) annual increases in local costs would be 8
percent, with the exception of services which would increase by 2 percent
annually; (b) annual increases of foreign costs would be five percent in
1985, 7.5 percent in 1986, and 8 percent thereafter, with the exception of
technical assistance which is assumed to increase by 0 percent in 1985 and
1986, 2 percent in 1987 and 3 percent in 1988. These predictions for
technical assistance are based on the observation that there is fierce
competition in the field at the moment.  The physical contingencies (US$0.6
million) have been estimated at 5 percent for construction, furniture,
equipment, vehicles and materials; 2 percent for technical assistance, the
project unit, salaries, and training programs; 1 percent for equipment
operation and maintenance; and 0 percent for local staff salaries.



- 12 -
2.19      The proposed credit and the joint co-financing from the Swiss
Government, are expected to be disbursed pari passu over a period of five
years (Annex 9). Experience with other projects has shown that budgetary
constraints and procedures limit the capacity of the Government to prefinance
expenditures to be reimbursed under IDA, and that the PIU sends many
applications for small amounts to maintain its cash flow. To alleviate these
problems, and to accelerate disbursements, IDA and the Swiss Government would
establish revolving funds (Special accounts) of US$0.45 and US$0.3 million,
respectively. Simultaneously, the Government would establish a revolving
fund of US$0.1 million for investment expenditures by opening a Project
Account in the same bank. IDA would commence recovery of the initial deposit
when the undisbursed credit amount plus any commit-ments to commercial banks
has reached the level of US$0.9 million. The Special Account and Project
Account shall be subject to specific audit each fiscal year in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Establishment of the Project Account and deposit
of the Governmet's initial contribution to the Project Account would be
conditions of effectiveness.
2.20      The Swiss contribution would be disbursed for only one category
(see (c) below), at a fixed ratio of IDA to Swiss Government of 42.58
percent.  The proposed credit and the Swiss Government contribution would be
disbursed as follows:
Ca) civil works at 35 per cent of total expenditures (US$3C0,000);
Cb)  furniture and equipment at 100 per cent  for foreign expenditures
and 85 per cent for local expenditures (US$2,000,000);
c) technical assistance, professional fees, studies, fellowships,
consultancies, staff salaries, training courses, textbooks and
operational costs at 100 percent (US$3,650,000 and US$5,700,000,
respectively);
(d)  Teacher Charter costs at declining rates of 40 per cent, 25 per
cent, 20 per cent  and 16 per cent during year one to four of the
project (US$500,000);
(e)  project preparation facility (US$920,000);
(f) initial deposit for IDA Special Account (USS450,000);
(g)  initial deposit for Swiss Special Account (US$300,000); and
(h) unallocated funds (US$2,180,000).
Procurement
2.21      The procurement arrangements (Annex 10) are the following:
contricts for civil works for the Public Administration Center (US$200,000)
would be on the basis of LCB; for remodelling of 7 existing



- 13 -
vocational/technical training centers (ranging from US$10,000 to US$91,000)
on the basis of negotiations with local qualified contractors or
subcontractors with PIU supervision. Contracts for furniture for primary
schools (total US$400,000) would be awarded on the basis of ICB; furniture
for remodelled vocational/technical schools would be procured by local
shopping. Contracts for equipment and vehicles (total USS2.4 million) would
be grouped, when possible, in attractive packages and would be awarded on the
basis of ICB when exceeding US$50,000. Local shopping would be used for
textbook procurement. Mules would be procured through direct contracting.
Consultants would be employed in accordance with IDA guidelines.
MH.scellaneous items, not to exceed US$350,000, in aggregate would be procured
on the basis of 3 price quotations. Prior IDA review would be required for
contracts over US$100,000. In the case of ICB, domestic manufacturers would
be allowed a preferential margin equal to the prevailing tariff or 15 per
cent of the CIF quotation of the competing supplier, whichever is lower.
Table 1 shows the procurement arrangements.
Benefits
2.22      The project would help implement the education reform in basic and
vocational/technical education, improve education sector manageneut, and
provide opportunities for training in public administration (Annex 11). This
would result in improvements in (a) the number of students entering basic
education, (b) the efficiency, i.e., the number of years of investment needed
to produce grade 4 and grade 7 graduates, (c) the quality of education at the
basic, vocational and technical levels, and the chance for school leavers to
acquire meaningful skills and employment, (d) the quality of the workpool in
the labor market, and (e) the quality of Government employees' skills,
especially in the areas of finance and management.
Risks
2.23      There are several risks associated with the project: (a) the
private sector may be reluctant to participate in the reform; (b) Government
contributions for both the investment and recurrent Budget may not be
forthcoming in a timely fashion and in sufficient amounts; and (c) the
Government may not sustain the required expenditures (investment and
recurrent) over the medium and long term to ensure full implementation of the
education reform. By strengthening the management of the key institutions
involved in the education sector, by clarifying their jurisdiction over the
private schools, by demonstrating the benefits of the reform through results
achieved in the public sector, and by providing incentives for the private
sector to adopt the reform program (i.e. books and teacher training programs)
the Government would try to bring an increasing number of private schools
under the reform. The risk of shortfalls in funds for investment and
recurrent expenditures during the project implementation period has been
minimized by C::) facilitating Government's budgetary procedures through
inclusion of all investment and recurrent expenditure requirements in project
costs and (b) establishing semi-biennial reviews of the budget. The sector's
medium and long term financing requirements would be discussed through
intensive sectoral dialogue with the Government as well as the other donors.
IDA would assist the Government in making sure that these requirements will
be reflected in the fourth Five Year National Investment Plan (1987-91) and
in uribilizing additional resources from other donors.



- 14 -
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 1: Methods of Procurement by ProjectCategory-and Estimated
Percentages of Total Costs to be Financed by IDA'and
the Government of Switzerland
Procurement Method (US$ million)
Project Category           ICB     LCB     Other     NA       Total Costs
Civil Works                       0.19     0.95                 1.14
(38%)    (38%)
Equipment/Vehicles        1.68             0.54                 2.42
(99%)            (85%)
Furniture                0.43              0.27                 0.70
(99%)            (85%)
Vehicles                  0.60                                  0.60
(99%)
Textbooks                                  2.83                 2.83
(1OOZ)
Technical Assistance,
Fellowships, Studies                      3.80                 3.80
(100%)              (100%)
Project Unit                                           1.18     1.18
(100%)
Training Courses                                       2.03     2.03
(100%)
Local Travel and                                      0.42      0.42
Subsistence                                        (100%)
Staff Salaries                                        5.61      5.61
(24%)
Equipment Operation,
Maintenance                                         0.82      0.82
(61%)
Consumable Materials,
Office Supplies                           0.24      1.14      1.38
(29%)     (292)
Total      2.31    0.19       8.63     11.20    2.33



- 15 -
CHAPTER III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      During negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
(a)  each annual reform implementation plan would be reviewed and
analyzed in August, and adjustments agreed upon by IDA before
October 1, (para. 1.12);
(b)  the education sector budget would be reviewed with IDA twice
annually: proposals in March, and the adequacy of allocations in
September (para. 1.16);
(c)  the adequacy of recurrent funds for carrying out the project would
be reviewed annually (para. 1.16);
(d)  the 1987/91 Education Sector Investment Plan would discuss with IDA
by December 31, 1986 (para. 1.17);
(e)  the financing for MEN's incremental salary bill would be provided
in increasing percentages (para. 2.03);
(f)  it would mark all educational materials financed under thib project
free' and would ensure that they would not be resold (para. 2.05);
(g)  the new salary scale for vocational/technical subsector staff would
be presented by October 1985 and adopted in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Association (para. 2.11);
(h)  the agreed implementation program would be adhered to (para. 2.10
and Annex 7); and
(h)  the  PIU, Special Account, Project Account and implementing
agencies would be audited annually by qualified auditors (para.
2.19).
Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is recommended for a
credit of SDR 10.4 million to be provided to the Republic of Haiti on
standard IDA terms.
3.02      As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would be
requested to:
(a)  form the Consultative Council (para. 2.14);
(b)  furnish evidence that the Swiss Contribution Agreement has been
duly signed and ratified, and all conditions of effectiveness have
been fulfilled (para. 2.17); and
(c)  establish Project Account and deposit US$100,000 in the Project
Account (para. 2.19).
Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is recommended for a
credit of SDR 10.4 million to the Republic of Haiti on standard IDA terms.



fI          mc           -v        -ga          Ut        -6     eas:          a - - -                 Wit       Aiv        We   iret    it             S c  nma
-         eF CZ    g            .         ra.e       s         is        a         Oc    S1  K    am      'c3            Oltc    o Er  r9        41t1  - c Ml"
q-as  II  as        -          s-         as        mc       a         39    Si P    n           ret         mi      sef    991Z       9             Sud
'bl         ix       n          *         AI                     is     A46         as    at  a9  i.         retf       Art"    sars  orI         at          a
O,        t        K          9           a          .        i          e       S      it Voc Cf.sWat                 i%v      St,   reva  GM 
or         t        3           6                                                                  Ata m  c a at   as ni c       siri  x-z       a            cierw
gri         Mt     &.t1        sat        M.92         te.      WK     6eIs         S     9   sT s.C       Act          a'2"      GU      VIC    Ii
ova        2      .91        sit         rat         is                 at       qtt    S    a go    Aarg              Olt      act    art    ma                awet
Aecrt          em 4- 46-;                            - -                              -    -    -go     arCs        A'll      aft    Iru      9s             Slab
Sfl       duet2  aeqt           =t                  a.Ui        -         9         -          -    -          it       am.t      old,   raS    at
era        gut   sa?             IV           -        a           C   as.           a     aZ      a        ax-c:        aret      on'    eIt    St         monmaam  Is
era-              GI       at          m           it       u        -          Slfl      ii   11  IC    Im         ret        4o       airi  *ro ma
arms       cc C  K             Is         VI'        44         IC       M        4l      Riteat             Wit         621    owil  cn         as     4US1
dee-ox       it    as*Ib                             ae           mc da!              c - -          -         wit         riP     -       rs      Ia              asVW
9W.5o       of       6.,  St                IIU                  Li       S         ..   cr  at  me           sIr         s-s    *m:tx   rz-s     Do ~           
imlfl    ames    Eqs                         -       &K          -        ,anIs     -     -    -    -        ant         A' an     oas   Vat    VAt               rmun
sit-it    suto    Ssc          .11        mU'       AMi         -       Sa          It as   m-ta              r     re            a"c mIt   rotl  at
arm           ~~~~~~~AGt                        dam                 At,       Cf     --    --           seal9      A"        vl      v's    wa            utafla
-  a02      ~~~        ~~As  a.6   ss-.s      aa        Sao       ANx       ma   mxet       act   s    Pa z    ass:        nWuz   ra       ma,          malts
-   c         CZ         *c          -         91        16       56        ' aLt    It      a        rat.        AC        ".C  r-c       ata
owcn       a         if        Am          -          5        II       as         C6  MIT Mit, act         Val         JIt     Otlfl4fl   .f oat               f
Aiws        i?    dear           as        AtI;    dAc;          cIt    At         -       ri   mi  it    Ares          a-1       met      VI,   ft         Inca  Alaa
dartW       am,   mema            Zs it      s-s        9         etnelme    a       at   .s       see        acert       je-      0mm    vIr       at
Ahoe         it       tit        99        ant          Ii                act       qlt     - -     -         qires       are,    aGrt rc           ts      amt aC
dare  c~~~~~~~~   dflj                                                                           VA         *t9      etc~~~r-  G  1    1  M I. ft-t    It  Ii-s
'SO        *9                     '         4          It       .2        It         S    e   .99  sis,set-el             tt       Oa      Zi      51SI
arm  cx     a          ~~~        ~~~~      ~ ~~us  ci;    saelmaCZ tto   C cel                      &,VI         Vt9    4u    mat    E.
mrt  tm        cm          ris        n         me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  at  lit   It I it  VA  WCiZ      .9'      max    art4   i&                 T
WI2        at       az          atIsK                           11       t                 tc t                          r.       art      s1    Ms            nmie
aa-i    9?    suIt           a,~~a       rtc       :,        It                        It   Cf  ti       -rse         Ia       uit]o            a        VSh
.S q91           CI        Mv. L ut                   at                  "asi a    m   vssi    -        ..re   `are~    ri        ci            vman=
-  it    sail                                      icatl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WeK       .i1       A jW     Lew    1.11     I
-  as   .99tt  ce      5rn                   .as     eqew       10t  .9  .12   ye~~~~~~~~A.,  We-    asr       a:      e;
ici st         -          -                                                                        *hs 4t         K       aetr-i M  ye    L.             fltZ-
AheC'      6as        -          a                    51a .%t                                                          .4zVc      awl  riO    a. 
aorc        It -Za                                                       a:.t                    -            rsz:     senlw      cct      Ve     as
sore         -        -A-                                     dts                                                    sarL      o       rr      a:6
Awl         a:T      . I       ,ItD        *e-ss                 D~~E     f-5       -    .6  *I9  E.i         rg         -i       mat      P.     3:           fa
ar5         it        t         la         war        as        Is        Ot      a"      vI   It  Z.        C'it         I's    anti    art      a:I
arm        cx        x          To         WIt        GM        De       Ce      *'e          [Zlla          I'll        WV    qw        xa &      s             7w
or:l        c x       lm        I at       ci         art        Os       t       ate      CZ   of   &V       x-U        aim.    aWlr   9S,       cca
era        irt                 is           -         WE        I I       t       my   alfatQtait           e5-bt        -      mNK    41tl
Oaro      Mmf       I                      7 Wi       C*        As      ts.      tea      et   GIt      nit   z          c%      Vol.   I'at    Ds            waNne
es-       ax      ,a-          ac         i-i        .s         is       a        Cc    is   mc   is        rat          Vs      Pks    a-a      ma         5522011
et  at         a 9          t         We        mc    awl &        l    .-.   mc  e           -          0Ir    moms   qa-at    as
arm  t:  at: -   am         mar.~~~~~~~~~~~a                                 l         [         - Z         1,r as a  t  nt m    99a  0  1 W I  t  awSO
owlm       LIt     we          a                      an u      It e             off a    it As at  Vaasst"n                              W      O              C
mt-s  xx  e  li    r.         am        it        a       5it     St  it   51        t-5t        i1     qKt    *t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.  G.is
'curt  cx    91         St~~~~~~~~~.  It.     acqt       it     mAte       aml       ss      ii         Ie E              iii    QI`       lasI
tir        I z      9  Itv't                          so        CZ te   5eti              CZ   VI  at        V: IS       C,t    mie       it     iSst
AWrt        Ct       c1         iv          rtm        ut        et       i         cc    esa 61 a Ia        a, me       a-'o   401c       Igs    oi ll
arm  vi  at      eie         Vet        ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~14  .ei  Zs  i    It ita   tv       re         dV`    40e1    frts    atMM
W -I       cc      .Tr                      .Otes     St        1'      W"       -        ,t  'not atC       v,Ct        S,c    sMt    e-m        V
arI        it      %C          at          rat        ii        if      E"t       aIt     t   mt c           rem       srt        at      r-s     tm
mArt        esu      at       stio         tfl        go         93       U1      O"       a]  as  it         retI       ac,c     ncti     re     .me
toelW        iiT      to         OK         9:13        it       INvi      Sti    a6       at   ii   Ai        et-i       .ti      IWV             cc               jo
att   I       is         c          c-m          i         a       a1     .6       S a i    eat        Ils         at        ato   m       a
mix-ti               n           e -  -96  soot                                   is -         -   -         arc&  W       I.e    maCri  i-ta   &A        -lWA 
erat        at     vetc         Gm         sct iot "&%  2        01      soul    age   "CiZ 4I535 WaIt      AsVml        'Ca    mnelt-  inChz   tavo
cc-rn      el       C.,        61                     It        cot      KDii      -     -    - -            ret        'C-s      migss m,rtt   of           YtiSUtt
495)    Ull       itt)   j fill     Ct)              ( lot)  IC)                 go) it) 15   ii           i)      f    li        It)     it)
i1s)    (oe          is  I   I)    itLIOVTDdeS{ COdSt          ii        I2)   Icict         II          UOObImUt9     lust) leact
uk2stt 1  nn l1                           w"'                         t:     a     umaeL)e
ammm                                                mavm  nSUfl                        (
Z 30 T S2UJ
I XZNNV
-91 -



Rso m"Ps a ew mmr-3e .5A _mmmA Ag p1-- 1m inamjmi su mp
wm~a-o  .10w   1 *11-30I0 m..maa. Jo Apm mOE 090)3awl' an01  e         im l-00a  DmA63u  mwT99m   *49ma10m  we0 mWI1lmd  an5             -lle--) our
&Imf so -ame "a ml 0611ume a   - _sm e wJmum wp ta -mi am-. *soDI.3@Pl.0 @ea s2301g_m S                             Amu  *1m0n Ar  -o.  lo  rwe-s_
*1-molowamw sea  la one a" .0&BM   as a"M139P
"""a16  Aso 3ft  1012000  WI l P.M awampeasu.i  *10 M10 400    1AM-O A0.S ml  '0-m om-m        sm 1*63mom a-wam- now1006W9 -t06)  o0wwu ABm-I   (3)
-(UJ@0300120  lnmwww  *iem         00
as" 1W  lam-ain  Itie: sAIN100esom so2 am0ma-w 1Wl ea Rama". amtama- *1opm o-am    50. label i.ous 1ma um "TO-Se   310 so"    in,               ..AMIN6  43)
*1-015O    *- 1Two5 4100  00101013 pow 00s1     Two Wa-_ s "Me "a "I _1-)  "    .ml09L   (1)
66110a  @   ST Do"6 at. OTMaa3    WO660mb mdl  wag    so inaml.  emu asMM &Am 11 2 13110 7maw 06060   m- n tions  mnm  Ag *16359  1.Wmm SWM"
mmmga6.1%3 Pd) IN" a003. mmim om Saai MMas gal.DM a-Inm n.e saw 0inUsloqa 1-*0"013 ""on" MP- 10ma as 01m@0  ma  'P3r am-lawa
inriamamiam .3mmoP.3m wo   mft -%MbO it A =oe    waspm Jo 0936mm a." Wnas &avow"-.qm    noum- 50.12.50    mlw 001 01-0 am  de JWIFsnpamq3 01-se"0
""  140 S~d" mlpwono   Du    Iblam   awo  31.pwmmaamla eveowam   eamma  Am "w3.30mm  m-Ws wmad som se own UP we inRMm
mona    o~t wiowso imsanw i soma wverig i  "SIMD S&  hs""6"    iM"    wum        ma 9    awmo no as ?*aM   33W go"  3    1.1MSUM
*iM  is 3      lao    Now * I3                                                                                                                 lKo*- I  _* -*lm 1 3  S
AVG00 bUdM   33100  -a                                     Vml.. 113A   - M                                       gi3IlUALO    slam
LWAm   keaofo  "WI1 2w mm    L                  n   mm.  --   MN  amu moOe - I                                 gnus"a.  aIDm 6mau&W
130 (300 nm02m9  doAO *121   1                            101M W MML Mm1 MUM .9                                             I3931       600 mo
4-C       22  14              30           21                 It1      t        Cs     9-  ex   C_s 'C1               O-                                 mwtm
94       a        It         se2          13   , 1            61      t9       01      j   4)333        9-*           *'                     Omni."I apIwa-
all       32      IC          09           03       a1        0        (4       cc     o al 66   GO     I'll          C9t                                   "VA
0.9       S's      C11l       Mr           Ile      S'is      c3t2     06a     ir*9, 0_          31i   I'             III                    in01..  01_32500
all      Si        CT         it           It                 Go42Zs                   mlitt 91 0  364  0U            0.1                      15000
*wwt  a 1   so    * f_-             at                 m        f        as     It   SC  i-s_ n a              rs                        g_     -.-nTsm-Wit
-ire0)     -6)     -.         -0)         -13)      *43        -1       -(Ii    -93   -4   -Z) -933  *4*,             -ell                                 wim..
Go     90        3          Cs           to       WS        06       I        94     of  99   of              0        1       -UM=        M M     61 08f
_0.2      03       4?         99         WI=        Ci                  it      (4.        V .   . *01*C0   L*9         .              r0_ .     to    -U.d_ a _ -_  _u
0.3     63       1          so         GIs%        se       gat       41     e.'    _           IS       0.3       63.       6t0     re    of    *       I mo
01r,      ag       IC          is         9-j        63       Wm       .m33    *4.in     -    -            3.03        011    q403R  o.t       is            J61131
ero 9              AetDE1                 I'C       lo         of      0w3      424     of  92  to         0.92       40.4     0(i*3   0.0     ma           V2326
*_*-   1            -            -        69                A 09      -      -    - Z            60         Al'3     03e0   0.41    94              1131
19W03       on3    to"9          19                   QLZ       -       64931      6    -       -           40.9       A4g       Gas IU3    0.23    as64l
3        el        gwo                                                       -                                                al                    D 3     *    13 
It1                                         !A    , ;                   :- -. z  ^U.a1 "I"  -. s t 4OU wd" 1S-I Sasa
969       C3        3                                           t -     Vs                                Ws .       *     no    -
lmO0..               S" *1      -             -        C                  tO      -W -                            - 1o0c..       ar    03        94              6062
Aware       du      369R        -                      I0       -       69IU       -     -          -      *03         sWr*       -      91      94              SOI
* "t'      "I    se"                                Oa tl  1Wa Rug                s                       "Il        J11 sI               K    61 1ant
rb11`.4    A442    =494          -          3         40C       -       A940      -       It  Of2  41       e6l         *.-l       19'     9      4 
'60.1       93      319        mcI        se'         'C       a"       396       99   wet 011  .3          i's       amI    gAl    4   0.39e   oil            MAU
63           10?        mIl c      4  -4       41       03 -16 c-o           Wr1:   0   W9 .0e..1 s1                    @4606           94,          03m
Air          2       I          9          -        ag         et      n931             go1 .3   di        A,[         I.3            5L= as .. e.
WI         Al      .02         I          19         go       er        n        9*     a   et  6c        jr`&       10.       fit    9-94    04           0.110
W-L         It       It         -          -1        IC K       -        04           -0- -              -'t                    6111     01 q0c  3
AwOC`I1     -        633        -                      2         -       o9        0    -    -     -       Aa9-         j6       Oft    0.00   "                VIM:
1-       13      91           U          1         11        1"   *         ~          0133            I '           4'      60    *3 *9*            X    _
ot,      i          1         I'         Cs                 Age 0  c r       01  91   3s    All'1 ,*9                69     0. 0    -      - 111- 1
WV-       22   * C            Oo          916        di        21 0   .930dl3 9-0                                      4"        -     9-2    *0           wmi*
6033        3       11 b -      3         04 z    31    - 6             96:  _5        -o l   60           00            -t   469~       Ot    9         IrAi *1  0n
era        It    .aIIC         O          i          It t. ino4 09                -                        'I O.42     9ll   e930    ,V(       as        *VU**
o*r is      3 9  it                         tA        22        40      V0       O0    102041   WCe          .23e      At 0.           1 Ot   .2n2 3     r    r uim
- 20.1     62      4*         9s          01         41        lo      wen 4t    ,          - o 21 *   t:  ,_ r. 1-            031"       f 3i             VI
4,35    4131      433)       lii        a  I        0       WSi       46        _4 I        1_t ('s                    1                                     _3t
-*        -2                   VA -       rot I                                                                   19  l  I  rcl I  n Di  C  qI r  to
*.493         a                               eV -     2t   -          U14111   1Z)  -      -86       -  Iun       at1   1MB  -          Itim o
I  .13   -861033    13)       (11     9UdOU U .  11           15)T       2)   4As "1      115        baIl I ,   -1 6         am  do  u
01,.aL   .111 a3. t06 130                                       1300  811936 t'
Al~=          FL 3]4oPOLi                                  SolimBil
'Java~~~~meiv"
I flOW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& IIAw
zz Jo    zT                  Ir         --                     s        -                  1     -    _                           -    |l      q   l      e
To -     8  "r--   rcl    
1 l  Ir  *1   -       * s        ss        -        n      Lt       0     1 s        w-1          11       e        tt     *         t| l



He~m
OL    EMrTC AN  RX            PRUMr
E wlttI of Earoii1ts In the Pblic ax1 Private Sector
Goneral                                    V         cal
Prtury Edwxao,           Secay Fduotim                Higher Education            Edirstlm
Public  Private   Total   Pu.lic  PrivatM  Total   Pdlic Private   Total  PdhUi  Private  Total
1973174          253,000  178,600  431,600  20,170  31,005  51,175  2,100    -           2,100   n.a.    n.a.    u.a.
1978/79          267,110  261,50D  528,610  15,475  65,385  80,860  3,080    -           3,080   n.a.    u.a.    f.a.
1981/82          282,365  375,735  658,100  15,870  79,730  95,600  3,600    -           3,600  2,784  19,385   22,169
1983/84 a/       299,169  467,931  767,100   n.a.    u.a,  128,900  4,179   ,0O88 b   5,267  4,000    n.e.    n.a.
Sotuwo: kuaul Statistical Yearbook, 1981/82, publnlehd June 1983.
a/ Only psrtial infomtALc avaUsbis at this mtit.
Uw Sine 1981, eight private, hlgher aducatio& imstititioos ware started.



- 19-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
The Vocational/Technical Training System
1.        In the public vocational/technical system, MEN and the Ministry of
Social Affairs and Labor (MinSoc) provide industrial training. MEN's
situation in 1981/82 is summarized below:
Table 1: MEN Industrial Training Centers
Lower Secondary (grades 7-9)          Upper Secondary (grades 10-12)
No. of    No. of    No. of              No. of   No. of   No. of
Centers   Students  Teachers  Output  Centers  Students Teachers  Output
9        1,400       137      210        4         800      74        188
In comparison with 1979/80, enrollments and graduates declined by 24 percent
and 7 percent, respectively. Most of the schools, four lower and four upper
secondary schools, are in Port-au-Prince. The other five lower secondary
schoolo are in the five secondary cities of the country.
2.        In 1982, an inventory was carried for the vocational/technical
training system. This showed that 29,600 children were enrolled in some 480
centers of which 80 percent were private; 68 per cent of the students were in
home economics courses with a duration varying from three months to two
years.
3.        At the lower secondary, vocational schools (grades 7-9) dropout
rates amount to 40-50 per cent. This is because the program offered is
maladapted to the clientele. The program lasts four years, and spends a
third of its time on general subjects. However, the clients are overage,
academically weak students, who want to learn how to earn a living.
4.        At the upper secondary level, completion of grade 10 is sufficient
entrance qualification, but most of the trainees have completed grade 13
and/or are bacalaureat holders. This "over qualification" is in itself a
wastage and, to a certain extent, a social injustice--it gives additional
opportunities for advancement to those who have already benefited from the
system.
5.        The unit costs per student/year are high in relative terms (G 2,600
per trainee compared to G 355 for a general secondary student in 1981).
However, because of disproportionate share of the budget being allocated to
two upper secondary training centers, the unit cost was G 5,600 per year per
t-".nee for those centers, and G 2,000 for the others.  The cost per
graduate is around G 14,00d (US$2,800) because of the long programs, which is
high compared to other countries.



- 20 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
6.        In additiou to this system, MAinSoc offers training programs in six
training centers, through inservice training programs together with the
National Institute for Vocational Training (INFP) and through mobile units.
In 1983/84, some 560 people who were already in the labor force
participated. These actions are aimed at marginal urban zones and the self
employed nonformal labor market.
7.        In an attempt to coordinate vocatiecal training activities and to
standardize the training programs, the Government created the National
Institute for Vocational Training (INFP) in 1973 and its adjacent Pilot
Centre for Vocational Training (CPFP), both attached to MEN. INFP was
assigned several other related tasks such as labor market research,
production and promotion of teaching aids, organization of on--the-job
training, instructor training and development of handicrafts.
8.        Although INFP has been successful in the inservice training of
vocational teachers and the on-the-job training effort (about 1,150 finished
training during the period 1976-81), its contribution to the overall
coordination of the training activites has been negligible so far. As a
first step much effort has been invested in preparing standardized curricula
for vocational schools with ILO expert assistance. By 1984, five programs
for the lower level secondary schools had been completed, but not yet
implemented. At the lower and upper secondary level each school implements
its own program independently.  The diversification of the four existing
upper level schools is also due to the strong influence of the donor
countries providing assistance to the schools (Canada for CFPH and France for
CPFP) and their reluctance to collaborate effectively with a central
coordinating agency. Although CPFP was established to be used by INFP as an
application center for curriculum and teaching aids development and for short
tra,ning programs, the latter has hardly access to it. Under the influence
of. 'ernal assistance, CPFP has evolved into a formal vocational school with
a sui generis program. In the meantime, under Cr. 770-HA financing, the
Model Accelerated Training Centre was built for INFP use.
9.        Administratively, both INFP and CPFP are public institutions with
financial autonomy. There is a director for each institution and a common
tripartite Administration Council composed of six government and three
employer and three employee representatives, all appointed by the President
of the Republic. The Administration Council ceased functioning in 1980. In
1981/82, the combined budgets of TNFP and CPFP amounted to about
G 2.5 million, 50 per cent of the total vocational/technical education
system.
10.       According to the establishing decree, the main financial source of
the two institutions would be an 1 per cent -apprenticeship tax imposed on
all salaries paid by all private enterprise and from freelance
professionals. The State would supplement the budget in case of deficit.
Since 1980 however, the apprenticeship tax has gone to the central treasury,
and the two institutions received their budget allocations directly from the
Government via MEN.



- 21 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
1I.       Until recently, the Department of Technical Education in MEN was
responsible for school inspection, a task which it attempted to carry out
with five staff members and no transport facilities. It was abolished in
October 1984, and INFP will be responsible for developing an inspection
service.
12.       Labor Market Responsiveness.  The training programs do not respond
to personnel needs. The output of the vocational training system falls far
short. According to revised official forecasts there will be a need for
37,000 technical workers at all levels to satisfy the labor market
requirements during the 1986-91 period, or some 6,650 per annum at the
beginning of that period. On the other hand, the output of the public
technical and vocational education system is around 1,050 per year and the
private system adds about 160 graduates at tne lower secondary level, none at
the upper secondary or university level. At present this corresponds to some
18 per cent of the anticipated demand.
13.       The low efficiency accentuates the shortage problems and the
inflexibility, which are due mainly to the length and irrelevance of the
programs, making it difficult for the system to respond to short term
personnel requirements. In the uncertain Haitian labor market, flexibility
is of vital importance. Also the complete divorce between the vocational
training system and industry adversely influences the relevance of training.
Most industrialists complain that retraining is necessary because graduates
lack practical skills at all levels. In addition, the system does not
address the needs of the nonformal labor market, other than through the
MinSoc programs, special programs such as a training program to be organized
under Cr.1131-HA for small enterpreneurs who receive credit from the Haitian
Development Fund, and through many small programs organized by
nongovernmental organizations, the scope and success of which is largely
unknown.



HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 2:   ProJections of Labor Market Requirements
aud Actual and Pro_ected Trai_ina Capacity
(Average at start of the 19B6-91 period)
Annual          Actual
Average          No. of                                Projected
Requirements      Graduates                Coverage       No. of                 Coverage
Level of Training           1986-91           1982        Deficit      (           Graduates   Deficit       (X)
University Level                535             520            15     97.1           540 a/       ---       100.0
Technical Level b/
(CPT equivalent)              403              187 c/       216      46.4           300          103        74.4
Qualified
(CPF and CS, formal
course)                   1,325 )
Specialized                         )  343 d/ + 161 e/    5,196         8.8           u.a.         n.a.       na.
(CPF and CS, non-                  )
formal course)            4 375 )         _n.a,                                                 n.a.       .a.
Total                6,638            1,211        5,427       18.2           us           Tea.      tas
n.a.  Not available, would depend on degree of implementation of new programs.
a/    Includes additional graduates from the Accountants Diploma Course.
b/    Includes 10 percent of the category "middle level admoinstration worker.", I.e., 78 graduate$ per year
(secretarial and commercial schools).
c/    Upper Secondary Vocational Training Schools.                                                                             I
d|    Lower Secondary Vocational Training Schools, public and semipublic.                                                     o
e/    Lower Secondary Vocational Training Schools, private sectr.



- 23 -
ANNEX 4
Page i of 12
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Status of the Basic Education Reform
Background
1.        The Government is dealing with the problems of low enrollments,
inefficiency and low quality at the primary level by reviewing and
restructuring the education system. it introduced a basic education reform
in 1982. The reform, its progress, and problems encountered, with their
implementatiou impact and constraints, are described below.
2.        Before 1982, the Government already took St.!ps to prepare the
reform. In 1976, it reviewed the curricula for teacher training colleges; in
1978, it merged the urban and rural education systems which were under two
different Ministries, and in 1979 it promulgated a law introducing Creole as
the language of instruction in primary education. Also, since 1978, IPN
started to experiment with new curricula and developed textbooks and teacher
training programs.
3.        In 1982, the Government introduced the new education structure,
exchanging 6 years of primary and 6 years of secondary education with 10
years of basic education divided into 3 cycles of 4, 3 and 3 years each,
followed by 3 years of secondary education. In the third cycle, parellel
academic and vocational schools were foreseen. This reform applies equally
to the public and private sector, and its introduction is to take place
gradually. At present, the old and the new systems exist side by side (Chart
1). Restructuring the system and dividing it in three cycles has the
advantage that those who leave the system after four years will have finished
a self-contained educational program. Theoretically, permanent literacy can
be achieved in four years; practically, however, this depends on the quality
of education received during that period.
Progress
4.        The progress made in reform implementation has been slower than
initially foreseen because in 1982 there was considerable opposition to the
reform from the general public and some segments of the private sector. The
reform was then equated with Creolization, and misunderstandings on the
actual nature of the reform were rampant. Also, opposition occurred because
such a reform is likely to change the future social structure. In addition,
the administrative and management aspects were underestimated. In spite of
less than active support from the Government for two years, the reform effort
continued and grew. Classroom results are gradually convincing parents and
educators. In 1984, the Government openly announced its support for the
reform again as a priority item, and all public schools should apply the
reform starting October 1984. The evolution of the reform is shown in
table which follows. The reform implementation has been limited to the first
and second cycle. The other elements of the reform at those levels, and the
proble-is encountered with their implementation are described below.



- 24 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 12
Evolution of the Education Reform 1979/80-1983/84
(Number of students by grade)
1979/80    1980/81    1981182    1982/83    1983/84
1st Grade                5,500      14,600     24,600      52,400     72,900
2nd Grade                            4,700     12,200      21,300     36,900
3d Grade                                        3,300      11,200     20,800
4th Grade
Total         5,500      19,300     40,100     84,900    130,600
% of Students in
Reform Program         0.9          3.0       6.1          12.0      18.7
Z of First Grade
Students in Reform
Program                4.3         10.7      15.3          29.1      36.5
Elements of the Reform
5.        In basic education, the other elements of the reform to be
introduced simultaneously with the restructuring are:
(a)  new curricula and syllabi adapted to the Haitian culture and
educational needs;
(b)  new teaching methods (i.e., use of Creole as language of
instruction, a teacher staying with a cohort for two years,
discovery learning rather than memorization, children grouped by
levels of ability);
(c)  introduction of the 'Teacher Charter";
(d)  automatic promotion from grade I to 2 and 3 to 4; and
(e)  improved school supervision and inspection.
These elements are being applied with varying decrees of success.
6.        New curricula and syllabi have been developed for grades 1 and 2
and are in various stages of being tested during a three year experimental
phase for grades 3 to 5. Experience shows that it took most experimental
classrooms more than four years to complete the four year curriculum.
Informal evaluations of the first cycle show that teachers consider tlhe math
and environmental sciences program superior to any existing one. The
necessity for the schoolreadiness skills is questioned in those milieux



- 25 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 12
where children attended kindergarten. Finally, grade 4 children in the
language programs seem able to read and speak French while this is not
necessarily the case in the traditional program, but the results in reading
and writing in Creole are disappointing.
7.        There has been a one year delay in the preparation of materials for
testing for the second cycle (grades 5-7), because agreement between the
Government, linguists and curricula development teams on the objectives for
this cycle was difficult to reach. Although the Government has decided that
children should be fully capable of following education given solely in
French at the end of grade 7, there is as yet no experience to suggest when
the shift from Creole to French should take place. The agreement is to
evaluate the experimentation data carefully and to adjust as necessary. In
addition to linguistic questions, the role and place of introduction to
technology  and practical subjects versus academic subjects are still
unclear. No objectives have yet been formulated for the third cycle (grades
8-10). The Government is reviewing the objectives and curricula of secondary
education and experimenting with baccalaureat programs. A student entrance
profile is being developed which would guide the curriculum planners develop
the exit profile of the third cycle.
8.        Educational Materials.  The new syllabi, textbooks, teacher guides
and teacher aids have been created by curriculum development groups at the
National Pedagogical Institute (IPN). These and some existing materials,
which are consistent with the objectives, would be the only materials allowed
for use in both public and private schools. However, the Government cannot
ensure strict adherence to its program, so many private schools use other
materials as well.  The Government's policy on the provision of educational
materials is the following:
(a) in the experimental phase, the Government will provide
classrooms with free teacher guides, teaching aids, text- and
workbooks;
(b) after the experimental phase, when the new programs are
introduced nationwide, it will provide all teachers who
apply the new programs in the public and private sector (grades
1, 2, and 3 in 1984/85) with teacher guides and a set of
student books;
(c) parents are responsible for the purchase of books and other
classroom needs, which will be produced and distributed by the
private commercial printing sector;
(d) the Government will provide all public and private classrooms
that apply the new programs with sets of textbooks (about one
per cent for every four students), in order to assist needy
children whose parents can not afford these purchases; and
(e) the Government is supposed to keep the costs of the set of
text- and workbooks below the costs presently charged (at
present, the cost of the set of text- and workbooks increases
from US$2.80 for grade 1 to US$6.80 for grade 4, which is only
slightly below the requirements of the traditional system).



- 26 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 12
9.        The policy that parents are responsible for purchasing classroom
supplies, however, raises the issue of impact of the reform. Estimates -
indicate that only 25 per cent of rural students have textbooks, that the
cost of public education contributed by parents for each child represent 6
per cent to 17 per cent of a rural family's income, and that textbooks
represent 38 per cent of these costs on average. Therefore, making textbooks
available in the classroom for use by poor children or taking steps to reduce
the price of textbooks are actions which might encourage parents to send
their children to school and might therefore
be helpful in increasing the enrollment ratio. IPN's Evaluation Unit will
study the availability and the use of textbooks in the reform classrooms
further during 1984/85. However, at this moment, parents of children in
reform classes are assumed to have the same purchasing power; about 25 per
cent would have books and theoretically, another 25 per cent would be able to
use books from the classroom library. A survey by the PIU of 180 schools,
(half public, half private) applying the reform program shows that in the
spring of 1985 between 50-60 per cent of the children had access to
textbooks. About 20 per cent of these children used books from the classroom
library, the others bought theirs. Incomplete evaluation data indicate that
children do learn better under the reform program than under the traditional
program, but how much of this is due to availability of books is not yet
known. A study carried out in July 1984 under PPF financing shows that the
costs of the books are reasonable and that they are produced in the most cost
effective way. The alternatives open to the Government to ensure that more
reform students have books are:
(a) to provide free books to more students, because the ratio of one
book for each four students is too high from the educational point
of view;
(b) to reduce the number of books required;
(c) to reduce the price of the books through subsidization; and
(d)  to make books available in the classrooms on a loan basis.
10.       Government's reluctance to provide free books is based on the
following arguments:
(a)  normative: in the local context there is a norm that tends to
disvalue goods and service that are totally free of charge;
(b) financial: the recurrent cost implications are beyond the
capabilities of MEN's recurrent budget;
(c) administrative: the Government does not have the capacity to
distribute books on time and to set up a supervision and control
system.
However, the Government has not analyzed alternatives. For instance, the
tuition paid by each student, of which 60 per cent at present goes to the
General Treasury account and 40 per cent stays with the schools to purchase
classroom supplies, could be earmarked entirely for book purchases for
student use. In addition, a student contribution may be requested. Another
possibility may be to abolish the requirements for uniforms which



- 27-                               ANNEX 4
Pae5 of 12
theoretically make up about 38 per cent of the portion of education expenses
parents are required to fund, or to subsidize the price of all books, but
leave the production and distribution as private sector responsibilities.
11.     The lack of information on the location of reform schools (often only
available at the end of November, two months after school starts, when
inspector visits), has delayed private printers considerably in their efforts
to distribute stock on time and in the right amounts. It nas also hindered
IPN in its efforts to provide the sets of books for classroom use on time.
12.       The reform teaching innovations were supposed to consist of:
(a)  using Creole as the language of instruction in grades 1-4;
(b) allowing a teacher to stay with a cohort for two years;
(c) grouping children in classrooms according to levels of ability;
(d) evaluating children by intermediate trimestral objectives and
moving them accordingly among groups;
Ce) using radio programs in conjunction with teacher guides; and
(f) increasing participation of children, by using their individual
experiences and capabilities to initiate discovery learning rather
than memorization.
Of these, (a) and (b) and (f) are actually being implemented; (c) and (d) are
too theoretical and are not applied In the Haitian educational context and
Ce) will only start with an experimental program in 1984/85.
13.       Language of instruction is that aspect of the reform which gives
rise to the greatest controversy and is the least understood. The role of
Creole is ften misrepresented and gives rise to the following questions:
(a)  What is the pedagogical role of Creole; is it a goal in itself
(i.e., Creole is to be learned for cultural reasons or is it a
means to attain other goals (i.e., better cognitive results by
students) or a combination of the two?
(b) How will the transition from Creole to French take place, and how
will starting with Creole help or hinder acquisition of French?
(c) How does Creole instruction in the early grades,which makes
literacy learning (in Creole) easier and quicker, help the
children's future development?
(d)  Will literacy in Creole be reinforced by the development of written
materials (not only didactic) in that language?
These questions must be answered by the educational authorities to clarify
the reigning public confusion on the matter of language of instruction.
Also, clear answers to these questions would help educational authorities
themselves (IPN, planners and decision nakers) as they develop strategy for
the Implementation of the reform beyond grade 4 as well as reform
implementation insofar as it implies the active cooperation of parents,
teachers, inspectors and others. At present, the Government has only



- 28 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 12
answered the first question: Creole is to be learned as a means to acquire
fluency in French. The timing of the transition between the two languages
has not been decided; the future role of Creole unclear.
14.       Grouping of Children According to Ability.  The teacher role in the
classroom was supposed to change from an -instructor only- mode to that of  a
facilitator of the learning process". However, the low level of training of
the teachers themselves makes it difficult for them to judge children
according to ability, implement trimestral evaluations and teach by using the
group method. In any case overcrowded classrooms and lack of space make
these tasks in almost impossible.
15.       A different, but related issue is the grouping of children
according to age. At present, schools in the experimental program rigidly
enforce the requirement of excluding overage children from the reform
program. However, overage children represent about 48 per cent of first
grade students. The reasons for such large numbers of children entering
school well beyond the official entry age of seis are social and economic
rather thas pedagogical, suggesting that this situation will continue.  This
creates a situation whereby the reform is applicable to only slightly more
than half of the enrolled students. The benefits of the reform curriculum
are lost to these overage children, many of whom will leave school after tres
or four years. Given this situation, it becomes urgent to consider the
integration of overage children into the regular grade 1 classes. A small
study is going on to evaluate whether there is any significant difference in
ability between a six and a nine year old in a rural first grade. Based on
these results, techniques for grouping by age might be introduced in teacher
training programs and then into the regular reform program.
16.       The Teacher Charter was signed into law in October 1984.  It is the
first charter applicable to a subset of civil servants after the Civil
Service Charter was established in September 1982. The Teacher Charter
defines the qualifications, criteria for promotions and salary grid for
education sector staff. The Charter is intended to give job security and
career paths to trained staff and aimed to reduce staff turnover and create
a professional cadre which would guide the educational reform. The salary
grid is not yet applied in totality; for 1984/85 modest salary increases
(12 per cent) are proposed only for trained teachers and inspectors. New
untrained teachers in fact, would earn less to start than they do at present
(US$80/m'onth instead of US$100/month). In the summer of 1984, personnel
files were updated and computerized.
17.       The efficiency of the system is supposed to be improved by
introducing automatic promotion between grades 1 and 2 and between grades 3
and 4. During a period of two years, children would be able to move at their
own pace in achieving the objectives set for grade 2 and grade 4. Children
would be grouped according to ability and each trimester the teacher would
reorganize groups as necessary, but reorganization does not seem possible in
the Haitian context.
18.       The supervision system was reorganized in September 1984.  Before
there were two administratively separate groups of advisors in the field: the
inspectors under MEN and pedagogical advisors (CPs) under IPN. The latter



- 29 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 12
were created for the reform and given the task of implementing it on a
continuing basis. This often put them at odds with the inspectors who were
the established authorities in the field of the traditional educational
system, who had a marked tendency to look skeptically upon the reform and who
felt that their authority was being undermined by the CPs. Now all CPs have
been incorporated into the inspector corps; a number of older inspectors have
been retired, and the younger ones will be trained in pedagogical supervision
methods. Since 1980, inspectors and CPs followed the same preservice
training and there are already a significant number of inspectors who have
the necessary pedagogical skills. It is questionable whether all reform
schools would receive adequate pedagogical support.  Approximately 200
inspectors would be responsible for inspecting the 1,000 public schools (6
times a year according to a new MEN directive); 50 former CPs would still be
responsible for observations in the experimental classrooms; and in addition,
all inspectors would need to assist with the reform implementation in at
least 2,000 grade 1 classrooms in public and private schools. Also, less
than half of these inspectors have access to a means of transportation, and
all inspectors from the old inspector corps lack adequate office facilities.
During 1984/85, the Government would experiment with the new supervision
structure and make adjustments as appropriate.
19.       The role of school directors in providing effective supervision for
their teachers should also be given greater importance. Most directors are
administrators and substitute teachers. They are poorly trained for both.
All public and private schools directors (3,100) received a 2 week training
course in the reform programs in 1982. In 1983/84 about 1,100 have benefited
from the two month course, and in 1984/85 the public school directors would
all receive a four week training course, which would be extended to all
private school directors in later years.
20.       Finally, there is a strong evaluation and monitoring component
built into the reform that should serve a management and planning function.
The evaluation service is part of the IPN, has a staff of 10, and works with
the CPs in the collection of data. It is responsible for the evaluation of
the experimentation. Together with each curriculum development team the
service has developed observation criteria for the particular subject
matter. IPN staff and staff in the Regional Pedagogical Centers observe
about 20 classrooms on a daily basis, and about 100 other classrooms on a
monthly basis. Once every two months, all staff involved in the
experimentation meet to discuss the problems. In addition, all teachers of
experimental classes receive two month training courses and periodic training
days. All teachers keep observation logs. This methodology is
well-developed, and has produced results when and if funds for fieldwork and
travel have been released on time.  However, not all curriculum teams in IPN
were willing to accept the data coming from the detailed classroom
observation, a situation which IPN's strong new leadership is trying to
correct.
21.       In addition, this unit is responsible for carrying out reform
evaluation studies i.e., measuring student achievements and studying the
internal and external factors which might explain student achievements.
These are monitored in 100 classrooms (one tenth of the classrooms which
started the reform in October 1983) through monthly visits. Data processing
would take place on a microcomputer purchased under Cr. 1305-HA. The



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 12
hypothesis, methodology, and procedures followed in this longitudinal study
are satisfactory.  During 1984/85, more attention would be given to teacher
training and availability of educational materials as significant variables.
The external factors relate more to the Haitian sociocultural context, and
how it influences learning achievements. Specific research would be carried
out to answer questions as they arise during reform implementation. The
results of the monitoring studies would be transmitted to other IPN sections,
as well as to MEN in quarterly reports. Other evaluation studies about the
reform, to be carried out by the Evaluation Unit in the Planning Department
of the Ministry have not yet started due to lack of trained staff and low
salaries.
22.       Underlying all these new elements is an ambitious training program
for the public and private sector. Since 1981, about 7,000 teachers have
been retrained for the reform in content as well as methods; about 3,000 more
would be retrained during 1984/85.  Therefore, many of the 15,000 primary
school teachers have had contact with the reform programs. However, teachers
in the experimental program often received more than one training session as
the materials were developed and changed over time, and staff turnover is
high.
23.       The training policy adopted in 1981 was only systematically
implemented for one year. Many teachers, even if they have gone to several
rourses, have not been evaluated and have not received any professional
credit for their efforts.  The radio programs for teacher training have been
developed; a few were broadcast in the fall of 1983, but without any
systematic testing. All teachers, regardless of qualifications or prior
training are given the same courses. Even graduates from teacher training
colleges have to be retrained, because only in 1983/84 were the curricula of
the nine teacher training colleges changed in order to make them congruent
with the reform. The faculty of the teacher training college was trained in
aspects of the reform during 1982/83, in intensive courses as part of a five
year training program financed by OAS.
24.       In addition, there is no central data base to record which teachers
have received training in the reform programs. As a result, trained teachers
are not necessarily appointed to reform schools. For instance, some 1,100
teachers trained in 1982/83, were not appointed to reforu classrooms in
1983/84. Appointment authority, de facto, rests with the regional
inspectors, whose proposals are rubberstamped by the central education
authorities.
25.       All "actors' ir the reform (school directors, inspectors and
pedagogical advisors) have received training courses on the changes in
content and teaching methodology. These training courses give information
but do not foculs on the roles and functions these actors are supposed to
perform, e.g., school administration and management for directors, modern
management and information gathering techriques for inspectors and more
technical/pedagogical/evaluative skills for the CPs.
26.       During 1984/85, the Government would experiment with a new training
policy. It would enable teachers to get Pedagogical Aptitude Certificates
(CAP) which in turn have higher salary scales attached to them in the Teaci1er



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 12
Charter. Unqualified teachers with 10 years of basic education would follow
a 10 week course in the summer leading to a CAP, after an examination
including practical tests. This would allow them to teach the first cycle.
Another summer session could lead to a CAP2 which allows teaching in the
second cycle as well. Radio programs, auto-instructional materials and
pedagogical support by inspectors during the school year would reinforce the
skills acquired. All directors and inspectors would also be trained, and a
central data base would be established.
Impact of the Reform
27.       Experience with the reform program implemented under proper
conditions (i.e., enough didactic materials, trained teachers and good school
buildings) have dispelled most doubts about its superiority over the
traditional programs. Teachers in the schools implementing the reform
program (including the experimental grades) always mention that their
students learn faster, understand better, and are more alert and spontaneous
than similar students in the traditional schools. Parents of these children
are also aware of these differences between children of the two types of
schools (according to the teachers). It is presently too soon to know how
these students fare at the end of four years. However, the very fact that
students in the grades 3 and 4 in the experimental program appear to be more
alert and learn more than those in the nonreform schools is significant.
Brighter children in the early years of primary school are likely to maintain
their advance in subsequent years. Presently, attrition in primary schools
is high, fewer than half of the entering class reach grade 6 and only about
58 per cent reaching grade 4. Under the traditional system those students
who leave primary school (often for economic reasons) retain little or
nothing from their two-six years of schooling, because much of this period
has been spent on learning French which, because most do not use French in
their daily lives, they lose after dropping out of school, rendering their
schooling of little or no use.  One can assume that the economic reasons
forcing children to drop out will not change in the near future. Therefore,
it is all the more important that children retain their schooling. Because
under the reform curricula initial instruction is in Creole, which the
children appear to respond to more effectively, one can assume that the
reform program will have a far greater impact (in cognitive and noncognitive
terms) on these children than the traditional program.
Constraints
28.       Acceptance and Public Perception.  At present there appears to be a
critical mass of high level governmental support for the reform. The
President mentioned it as a priority for the first time in April 1984, the
present Minister of Education has given it first priority. Before, the
support was passive rather than active, and seems to have depended upon the
assumption that there would be a smooth transition from the old to the new
system without generating the strong opposition that surfaced in 1982, when
the abrupt nationwide introduction of the reform was announced. Articulate
opposition to the reform comes from the economically powerful, urban elites
who associate their situation with their knowledge of French. If they again
feel seriously threatened by the reform, they could create political
pressures damaging the success of the reform. Most of the hard support for



- 32-
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 12
the reform comes from the sector of the educational system most closely
associated with it (IPN and teachers). The higher level of the educational
establishment (the older inspectors and some ministry offirJ als,plus
directors of the more prestigious urban schools) have given the reform
begrudging support at best. This situation appears to be changing in favor
of the reform with the inspectors providing greater cooperation than
two-three years ago, and some prestigious schools using the reform materials
(even translated into French) because they are better pedagogically.
29.       Popular support for the reform has never been strong.  There has
been a marked tendency to associate the reform with elimination of French
from the curriculum. This misrepresentation of the reform attracted the
opposition of many parents, especially from urban areas. However, as the
initial fruits of the reform appear (para. 26) much of this opposition is
disappearing.
30.       This analysis suggests that the surest road to the realization of
the reform is not to force the issue. Acceptance by parents and educators
alike will occur on the basis of the results. The endorsement of the reform
by high political officials should dissipate some fears that the reform
implementation is not continuing. In additioa, a public information campaign
could inform the general public better about the real advantages of the
reform. Also, the existence of a few private schools in the largest cities
that continue to emphasize French (although using the new pedagogical method)
for a clientele of students who often use that language in the home should
not be considered a threat to the reform. Rather, they serve a minute
proportion of the population whose organized opposition to the reform could
seriously jeopardize its implementation.
31.       The Government should mount this public information campaign,
because, as all public schools apply the reform, extension of the reform
depends on the individual decisions of private school directors on whether or
not to apply it. Pressure from the clients, i.e., parents is crucial. The
Government can build up this pressure by clearly informing the public about
(a) the content and methods of the reform and how the learning environment is
better adapted to at least 80 per cent of the school children; (b) the role
of Creole: a tool to learn French, and its use in the second cycle; and
(c) the validity it gives to certificates of reform schools, i.e., that the
certificate at the end of the second cycle is equivalent to a primary
education certificate (CEP); when the CEP examination will be abolished, etc.
32.       Managerial Constraints.  The management of the educational reform
at the basic, and vocational/technical level lies with MEN. MEN's new
Organic Law takes into account the guidelines of the public administration
law, and of the new constitution of August 1983. The new organizational
structure of MEN is shown in Chart 3. This new structure still has to become
effective. Problems cutting across the whole sector are the lack of modern
management skills and techniques, an area to be addressed by a new division
in the Ministry, and the low salary structure which creates high staff
turnover. The Teacher Charter would only partially alleviate this problem.



- 33 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 12
Some sFecific problems still to be addressed are:
(a) delineation of responsibilities and coordination among the
different branches of the educational establishment, and
establishment of a feedback process vhereby planners and policy
makers can make use of monitoring and evaluation results;
(b) improvemnt of the quality of the reform Itself and coordination
among aspects such as training policy and programs, the role of
educational radio, improvement of the supervision and monitoring
process in the schools, overage children, appointment of teachers,
evaluation of textbook production and distribution system; and
(c) a lack of coordination with the private sector.
33.       There should be a clear delineation of responsibilities for basic
education between MEN and IPN. HEN should-clearly set objectives and monitor
progress made towards achieving these objectives. Until recently it was IPN
that implicitly set objectives through its technical capacity to produce
reform actors and products, but MEN barely supported these efforts through
its authority structure, and did not monitor them. In March 1984, EN
created a comission to coordinate, supervise, and apply the reform. This
commission headed by the Secretary of Education for Basic and Vocational
Education consists of the eleven departmental inspectors, IPN management and
some advisors. This is the first time that inspectors have been given
authority over the reform in the field, and with the integration of the CP
and Inspector corps, a clear authority structure exists In the field. At the
central level, however, the relationships between the commission, MEN
(especially the Department of Basic Education) and IPN management are not
well-delineated. This is especially the case regarding the role of IPN
vis-a-vis the inspectors. Also, it is unclear how the commission would use
IPN's Monitoring Evaluation Unit.
34.       The commission is specifically charged with plaziing reform
implementation for the start of the school year. Inspectors are supposed to
poll private schools on their plans regarding the reform before the end of
the previous school year. If information on the location and number of
schools implementing the reform becomes available in time, the delays
occurring now with shipping books would disappear and inspectors would be
able to appoint trained teachers to reform classrooms.
35.       Within IPN the. existing management structure is also inefficient;
it is too centralized. As IPN depends almost entirely on external sources of
finance for its operations, it is also necessary to modify IPN's procedures.
In 1984 IPN submitted an integrated annual workprogram for the first time; it
was approved by MEN, and based on its figures financing arrangements wore
made under Cr. 1305-HA. However, IPN needs to strengthen its financial
planning capability in order to request funds, monitor their use and produce
the accounting on a timely basis. A management accounting firm (financed
under Cr. 1305-HA) is presently assisting IPN with its efforts to improve the
situation. In addition, IPN's work calendar (observing all school holidays
and officially closing for two to three months over the summer) seriously
jeopardizes its efficiency, because the bulk of the work needs to be carried
out during these periods, i.e., training courses, distribution of educational
materials, analysis of evaluation data.



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 12
36.       Better planning, vanagement and coordination would go a long way
toward dealing with the quality issues (para. 32 (b)), as well as some of the
specific proposals now under experimentation (teacher training, para. 26) or
review (overage children, para. 15).
37.       Finally, the Government is aware that it needs to review its
relationship with the private sector. The legal framework needs to be
updated, and coordination mechanisms need to be established. These aspects
are being studied.



- 35 -
AEX 5
I
-ac    EMAT109 AM  11A1!M  PFJ
coveurn= EigMEM cm k&xa~gx Reczeat md RMggMS&t
Biuxlg Foeca t ACtUal 1976/77-1984/85
(in C millmi ad Z)
1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/8D 1980/1 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1%4/85 stee
A.1 Btdget Fors;
Total 1ecrt &xWt af            311.7   387.5   473.5   698.0   784.2   855.2   777.9   914.0         950.0
ott of which all Histrtis      219.4   269.3   337.5   485.9   562.1   586.8   541.3   682.3         691.1
out of wtdch EductI_  bt        26.5    31.7    47.      77.1    81.5    88J       87.2    94.8       96.3 c/
EduzXa as Z of all MnIstris  2.L1Z   11.8    14.02   15.9Z   14.5%   15.1Z   16.1%   13.91Z/
A.2 Actu   F1 ue
TotaL hecwreut E,sdittF e a/   234.2   274.3   349.6   472.3   797.0   817.1   86.8   908.9
ottof wich all --lnis--ies     213.7   27.3   346.1   471.8   543.5   566.5   540.4   678.9
o.z of ich iucntioub/           26.4    32.5    48.7    72.9    78.3    85.9    87.3    93.4
dixtL as I of all MErstrs   12.4X    11.9%    14.L1   15.5Z   14.4%   15.2X    16.1%   13.8Z
A.3 Acrua1 Eh !Luw   as Pmerame
of BiE  Fougt
TotAl PRAcumet a/               75.1%   70.8Z   73.8    67.7%   101.6    95.52  103.7%   99.4
ALL !fLnstrles                  97.4%  100.1%  102,5    97.1%   96.7    96.5    99.8    99.5
!du*lxi bl                      99.6%  102.%   102.7%   94.6%    96.1    96.8   1O0.1%   98.5%
B.L Budget Paes
Motal Devlop1 t Biugt          694.7   896.6   862.0 1,0l.9  1,094.4   981.6 1,083.4 1,097.5    1,245.6
ota of sieh &/                   28.8    62.0    74.4    95.2    95.4    77.7    52.9    50.8     56.8
Eduatm a Zof Toal                4.1%    6.9%    8.6Z    9-Z       8.7%    7.9Z    4.91    4.6%        4.6%
B.2
TotaL Davel k~ opmt~zI         534.7   720.2   621.1   578.4   673.3   663.0   646.3
out of %mrh ddw /tm             22.3    35.1    63.9    60.3    60.3    69.4    32.3
iwatl as Z of Toc                4.=     4.9Z   10.3    lO.4       9.K    10.5%Z    5.O
B.3 ActuaL .EmpLture   Pemtpee
of BaIdt Farecsto
Total 1Dvelnm                   77.=   80.3%    72.12   57.7%   61.5Z   67.51   59.7%    Xla.
EdiEati                         77.41   56.6%   85.9%   63.3    63.2%   89.3%    61.1%
Souc-  1erwzr of P            and 1i E c hffar. 1Dpartae of Plming.
al Toa rezrazt bulget iu1des (1) (mis             CD pars znst riel s-)
and (2) spmial nwus(c    s   Cp dA)
b/ ?ffaltry of EFdua- mly.
'E TI eda uDe-m     1934 to G 99.9 -1 3i1 ta represmiizg 14.5% of the haL budet.
tA/ AedUaettloa.



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
kage . of 1i
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. Basic Education
1. Improvement of Working Conditions
(a) Inspectors and Regional Pedagogical Centers, 120 and 16
respectively, would be provided with transportation means, office
equipment and furniture, office supplies, and funds for operation
and maintenance of the vehicles.
(b) Teacher Charter: Teachers, inspectors, and directors would
receive salary increments (See Table 1 and 2). IDA financing and
Government financing would decrease and increase, respectively,
during project implementation.
2. Qualitative Improvements
(a)  Curriculum Development:  IPN's curriculum development teams would
be provided with staff, and local and international technical
assistance to carry out testing of curricula for grades 5-9.
(See curriculum experimentation schedule in Table 3).
(b) Educational Materials: IPN's Educational Materials Unit would be
provided with staff, local technical assistance, equipment and
furniture to provide teachers and students in experimental
classrooms with aLl necessary teacher guides, text- and
workbooks; and to provide teacher guides, and text- and workbooks
for teachers, and sets of textbooks for classroom use for all
classrooms applying the reform program. For details on the
number of books, see Table 4.
(c) Training Programs: IPN's Training Unit and Pedagogical Support
Unit would be provided with staff and operational expenditures to
carry out training programs for teachers, directors, inspectors
and teacher training colleges faculty. For details, see Table 5.
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation Program: IPN's Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit would be provided with staff; local and
international technical assistance; training, fellowships and
library; equipment, materials and operating expenditures;
remodelling and all expenditures related to carrying out the
monitoring and evaluation (i.e. data gathering, analysis,
priority, etc.).
(e)  Furniture:  MEN would be provided with furniture and equipment
for the equivalent for about 200 classrooms for public schools in
the Department Sud-Est and the rural areas of the Department
Centre.



- 37 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 11
B. Vocational/Technical Training
1. Experimentation Vocational Centers: Curriculum experimentation would
take place in the Folyvalent Training Centers at Carrefour, Hinche and
Fondation St. Vincent from 1985, as well as from 1986 in the Satellite
Centers Ste. Marie and Cotes de Fer. If labor market studies and advance
in curriculum experimentation justify it, the experimentation would be
extended to Polyvalent Centers at Bergeau and Cap Haitien. The project
would provide funds for remodelling St. Marie, Bergeau and Cap Haitien,
for equipment for these three centers as well as those in Carrefour and
Hinche.  See Table 6 for curriculum experimentation and construction
schedule, and Table 7 for modules to be offered.
2. Technical Centers. The project would provide funds for remodelling.
equipping, technical assistance and fellowships for the four technical
centers. CPFP, CFPH, J. B. Damier, Elie Dubois. The roles of the last
two need to be defined before any investment could be made.
C. Education Sector Management
1. MEN: MEN would be provided with:
(a) a computer to integrate all data bases after study of needs;
(b) funds to carry out studies on:
,i)   teacher motivation and turnover; and
(ii)  present recurrent budget allocation practices, and ways to
reallocate expenditures of MEN or parents to make free or
subsidized books more generally available;
(c) technical assistance, and funds to organize its School
Construction Directorate properly; i.e., study organizational
alternatives, prepare procedures, and study construction norms
and participation of communities in school maintenance; and
(d)  funds to carry out the schoolmapping for the six Departments
(Nord-Oest, Nord, Nord-Est, Artibonite, Centre, and Ouest) and
present financeable and feasible double shift lproposals.
2. IPN: IPN's administration would be strengthened with four positions.
3.  INFP:  To strengthen INFP, international and local technical assistance,
fellowships, remodeling, equipment, staff and operational expenditures
would be provided to carry out
(a) a job analysis and training requirement program;
(b) training of administrative staff;
(c) a supervision program of vocational/technical centers;
(d) an instructor training program;



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
page 3 of 11
(e)   a pilot training program for small entrepreneurs;
(f)   a study on training needs for women in labor force; and
(g)   audiovisual programs to encourage women to participate in
vocational/technical training.
D.  Public Administration
1. Public Administration Training Center: The project would provide funds
for construction and equipping of the training center and international
technical assistance and fellowships to determine training needs, and
establish the programs.
2. INACGEI would be provided with international technical assistance to
teach courses for the accountant diploma course.
E. PIU
1. The PIU would be provided with staff, equipment, operating expenditures
and techmical assistance from July 1986 onward.



- 39 -
AM 6
Pqe 4 of 11
VAr
Tabl 1:  SaIarY Inreas ad N    er of Peope by C.tmy  mi1v1       g 7
Du to IorrudEctiucf tbe Tamebw  Quter
1        izbly               N,dz2o in
Slary Se2ny
194  1984/5  1984/85  L95/86 1986/87 18788  198/a9
G        G        -
~ ~rs: lm  t   4 yr. expw.   250-0                        C       1,851     759      120     0m    120
(Q ll): 4-7  1. e.                   25050      50D    2,132   2,76?   2,9        2,59      720
n tim  7 yrs. expmr. a/ 25D-5        500     -0-      -0-      -0-     -0-    1,498
Tannbs wLth CAP.- less tIm 4 ys. expr.          SOD       SOD       51      372      697     999      93
(Cl lev): 4-7 ym. e.                   900      560       517     5'9      52      529 
=me tim 7 yrs. ex. at  50D           60      -0-      -0-     -0-      -0-       389
-ollg   aitutE  - ls tim 4 ycs. eYI.           SOD       560      84       743     895      856      848
COIeIe Grade  - 4-7 ys. eper.                  500       640    1,427   1,704   1,709   1,909   1,007
EZ2 levl):  me t:m 7 3cs. exr. /  500           680     -0-      -0-     -0-      -0'    1,094
sdbol Dfrctws b/                                650       780    1,000   1,00D   1,000   1,0O0    1,000
TWP3cto3x b/                                  1,325    1,325       210      235     260      285      310
Total                                    7,632   8,124   T,211   8,001   8,337
CAP - PedqP&cua ApeLtae CertLEcgt
Ilta- P-dectLOW am bse c  tbe famdrm awuptt.m:
(a) 2.% dttrif rate.
(b) UcudIo of 350 C2 le:l tEaber per         to Cl cleva.
(c)  ME  of 310 teber tral    cUiep grPIwt  per per to tbe systen.
a/ COty 4pUcable in 1988/89.
b  Decs ad IspVwto= wll also be duanified acdhg to  .lLffrat1As aud yars oE eee. In
19%8/89 dxee with  re tbw 7 urs cf sysram  idil xecv  m iam          eIaM Ludr ba  salay
o~rn      -xg to  nxl     by Cl or 32 leS  teabr.



- 40 -
AM 6
Page 5 of 11
HAMn
- EXEATLI h XID( G }
Table 2   GCts of Salaries for Basic duatim Staff
(izL G)
wary   1984/85    1985/86    L986/87    1967/88    1988/89
- Tlss: th  4 y.  .                         5,064   9,373,464  3,939,7     607,680    607,680    607,680
(CZ level): 4-7 rs. mqper.         6,000  12,792,000 16,572,00  17,928,000 15,588,000  4,320,000
me     7 y   eiper.  6,00          -0-        -0-        -0-        -0-   8,988,000
C2 Tot  Sa                               22,165,464 20,511,792 18,535,680 16,195,680 13,915,680
A4_*    t                                      -1,653,672 -1,976,112 -2,340,000  2,28D,000
O.m1t'le                                       -1,653,672 -3,629,784 -5,969,784 -6,249,784
Te~kErs ~wth CAP: Im  the 4 yrs. eqper.     6,000    306,000  2,232,000  4,182,000  5,994,000  5,778,000
(C1 Iseel): 4-7 ys. aeqr.         6,720   3,474,240  3,689,280  3,642,240  3,554,880  2,607,360
me tbm 7 yrs. eper.   7,200         -0-        -0-        -0-        -0-   2,800,800
Teae Tai{z
Co011e Grahute - les thm 4 ys. exper.   6,720   5,402,880  4,992,960  6,014,400  5,752,3W   5,596,560
Co3g Guadtates -4-7 yws. eaper.           7,680  10,959,360 13,086,720  3,125,120 14,737,92D  7,733,760
(12 level): More dhs 7 yrs. expr.   8,160      -0-        -0-       -0-         0-   8,927,040
Sdxo1 Directols: mm tIm 4 yrs. of exqer.    9,360   9,360,00D  9,360,000  9,360,00D  9,360,000  9,360,000
c~9rs: Cl                                 15,000   1,320,000  1,290,000  1,245,000  1,230,000  1,200,000
B2                              15,840   1,888.560  2.360160  2.803.680  3,215.520  3,643,2D0
01/32 DiD ectac3 Total Sa2ary   32,711,040 37,011,120 40,372,440 43,844,640 47,748,720
iznu l Tneaert                                t4u30,0O0 +3,361,320 +3,472,200 +3,904,080
CazM'leSAe                                    44,300,080  7,661,400 11,133,600 15,037,680
TXr& SAALARY CO1S:                                  54,876,504 57,522,912 58,908,12D 60,040,32D 61,664,400
-    abal Ieremt                              +2,646,408 +1,85,208 +1,132.200 +1,624,080
Cunlative                                     +2,646,408  44,031,616 +5,163,816 +6,787,896
IDA FDG
Pc c tqpf of    latre
IeM   of Total
Techig Staff Coat                                             40%        25X                   161
Costs in G:                                                1,058,563   1,007,904  1,032,763  1,086,063



- 41 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 11
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 3: Reform Implementation Schedule 1985/86-1988/89
(Number of Classrooms)
1985/86       1986/87        1987/88         1988/89
Grade 1         2,400        2,900          3,400           3,400
Grade 2         1,900        2,400          2,900          3,400
Grade 3         1,500        2,000          2,000          2,900
Grade 4      (1,068) a/      1,500          1,900          2,400
Grade 5         (400)          800          1,125          1,500
Grade 6        (170)          (400)           800           1,125
Grade 7         (30)          (170)          (400)           800
Grade 8                        (23)          (128)          (300)
Grade 9                                       (23)           (128)
Grade 10                                                     (23)
a/   Numbers between parenthesis indicate experimental class-
rooms; because of the one year delay in the experimental
program, the first year experimentation for grade 4 was
carried out twice. A 25X dropout rate is assumed between
cycles 1 and 2 and between cycles 2 and 3.



-42-
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 11
RAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 4: Number of Textbooks, Workbooks and Teacher Guides
to be Produced Durin-g th-e Project
Costs       1985/86 a/  1986/87 a/       1987/88 a/
Regular Requirements
Grade 1
1 textbook                     1.00                       6,800 b/          600
3 workbooks                     1.80                      6,800             600
6 teacher guides              12.30                       6,800             600
Teaching aids                  17.00                      2,700             450
Classroom use                   1.00        6,250        36,250           6,250
Grade 2
1 textbook                     1.00           500           600           6,800 b/
3 workbooks                    2.50           500           600           6,800
5 teacher guides              12.40           500           600           6,800
Teaching aids                   5.75          400           450           2,700
Classroom use                   1.00        5,000         6,250          42,500
Grade 3
3 textbooks                    2.45           600           500             600
4 workbooks                    3.00           600           500             600
5 teacher guides               9.90           600           500             600
Classroom use                  2.45         6,250         5,000           6,250
Grade 4
6 textbooks                    6.20         4,900 C/        600             500
1 workbook                     0.60         4,900 -         600             500
5 teacher guides              10.90         4,900           600             500
Classroom use                  6.20         5,400         6,250           5,000
Grade 5
6 textbooks                    5.90         4,200 c/        400             500
2 workbooks                    1.60         4,200           400             500
9 teacher guides              20.60         4,200           400             500
Classroom use                  5.90        10,000         4,100           5,000
a/  Requirements are based on numbers to be distributed in October of the following
school year.
b/  Materials revised after two years of generalization would be distributed to all
teachers and authorities.
c/ Materials for general use on would be distributed to all teachers and
authorities.



- 43 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8-of ll
HAITI
FOURTE EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 4: Number of Textbooks, Workbooks and Teacher Guides
to be Produced During the Project (continued)
Costs        1985/86 a/  1986/87 a/      1987/88 a/
(US$)
Experimental Program
Grade 6
6 textbooks                     6.30       24,400 d/        900 cl          400
2 workbooks                     1.20       24,400           900             400
9 teacher guides              20.60         3,800           900             400
Classroom use                   5.90                     10,000           4,100
Grade 7
7 textbooks                     6.90        9,000 d/    24,000 d/           900 c/
1 workbook                     0.60         9,000        24,000             900
9 teacher guides              20.60            200        3,800             900
Classroom use                   6.90                        -            10,000
Grade 8
10 textbooks                   15.00        1,300         7,150           6,000
10 teacher guides             30.00            50           900             200
Grade 9
10 textbooks                  15.00                       1,300           7,150
10 teacher guides             30.00                          50             900
Grade 10
10 textbooks                   15.00                                      1,300
10 teacher guides             30.00                                          50
a/ Requirements are based on numbers to be distributed in October of the following
school year.
c/ Materials for general use would be distributed to all teachers and authorities.
d/ Free distribution of materials to all students, teachers and authorities
participating in experimental program.



-    MWATI   AND PFRA           W
Table 5: Tratdig Prwi    d Schedule
_ _ Pwtiipw                  Type of hctivitZ        F       y        TUMtICL  Uhit Cost 19586  19i687  197/             MM
Teache Tminimg
..w.grae1    tea des withlt amy    12 pedg     olI  dayda    mthly              2 da)          55        1992D  19600   2000D  5,520
reform tanIzd
didatkic materials    duri% scol yr.   -                 10        2,400   1,810   2,150   6,360
for mu-stuly
Grade 1 teachers aditted to CAP       cos                  Eater/Si_r           1 week         15        1,920   1,600    2,000   5,520
Grade 1 tehers admitted to CAP        coe                  S      vati         10 weeks        19        1,920   1,600    2,000  5,520
Grade 1 teaclrs not amtted
to CAP             awroe                              Sumr vmtbom          6 week         65          480    210       210    900
Grade 3 techr (urbui)                 coaoe                  hersesk           24 weks         80          500    400       -       900
Grade 3 tabers (rural)                  use                SMEr                 5              65         1,000   1,200     -     2,200
Grade 5 teas                          com                  Str                  5 weea         56          400    800       900  2,100
Grade 6-7 teachers                    cous                 Sumr                 5 weed         56          -       21u      2R      410
Grade 8-9-10 teachers                 coure                                     5 w eeb       150           92    600       600   1,292
Directors                             courge                qrterly             I muk          93          400    40        400   1,2D0
Teachr trinz  cowllp                  Vit/llvim               erly             10 da3u                  al, faculty t.t. co]aI
traiaing                                                                                                 >
iTalnlag staff (inspectors)          visit/coin             qmrterly           2.5 days                 all inspectors 1mYl  gtlvag
teace  ad director tu1q
cou~~~~~~~~



- 4. -
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 11
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 6:  Construction and Curriculum Experimentation Schedule
for the Vocational Training System
Polyvalent       1984/85          1985/86        1986/87       1987/88
Centers       Constr./ Exp.    Remod./Exp.  Remod./Exp.  Rew0od./Exp.
Carrefour         a/      yr.lb/          yr.1         yr.2          yr.3
Hinche            a!                      yr.1         yr.2          yr.3
Fond. Vincent                             yr.1         yr.2          yr.3
Bergeau                            x                   yr.1          yr.2
Milot                                      c/
Cap Haitien d/                                                   x
Satellite Centers
Ste. Marie                         x                   yr.1          yr.2
Cote de Fer                                            yr.1          yr.2
a/  New construction already completed under Cr. 770-HA.
b/  Partial experimentation, as center starts in March 1985.
c/ Bricklayer training program for restoration of Cap Haitien Citadel.
t/ Remodelling would only take place if experimentation with the curri-
cula is acceptable, and if a labor market study shows that there is a
need for skills not yet or not sufficiently being met by the training
offered at Fondation Vincent.



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 11
RAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 7: Specializations to be Provided in Polyvalent
and Satellite Training Centers
Carre-          F.    Cap                       Ste.   C.d
four   Hinche  Vinc. Haitien Milot  Bergeau  Marie   Fer
Construction Trades     x                       x              x        x      x
Woodworking Trades      x                                      x        x      x
Electricity             x        x       x                     x
Auto Mechanics          x        x       x                     x
Metal Work              x                       x
Tayloring               x        x                                      x      x
Commercial Trades       x                       x
Industrial Sewing       x
Handicrafts             x        x                             x        x
Leather Work                     x
Home Economics                   x
Plumbing                         x                             x
Smithing                                 x
Soldering/Welding                                              x
Restoration Bricklayers                                  x
MinSoc Program              x



- 47 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project Management and Implementation
1.        The Government has devised special management arrangements for
efficient implementation of the project. These arrangements, discussed in
sequence below, include:
(a) organization plans with clearly defined responsibilities for the
executing agencies;
(b) well-defined implementation procedures; and
(c) a realistic implementation schedule, and agreement on an action
program.
Organization Plans
2.        Responsibility for project administration would lie with the exist-
ing project Implementation unit which successfully implemented Cr. 618-HA,
Cr. 770-HA and Cr. 1305-HA. Under Cr. 1305-HA, the PIU is directly respon-
sible for the implementation of the construction program; upon completion of
that project, it is expected that those functions and staff would be trans-
ferred to the School Construction Directorate. The existing PIU is under
reorganization to enable it to carry out the larger operations effectively
(Chart 3). Completion of this reorganization would be a condition of a Board
presentation. The role of the PIU would be to coordinate the actions of the
implementing agencies of different ministries, to assist them by carrying out
procurement of goods and services, make financial resources available on
time, and to monitor and supervise closely the programs being carried out.
3.        To improve coordination among different Ministries, MEN would orga-
nize meetings of the Consultative Council formed by the Ministers of
Education, the Presidency, and Finance. As a condition of effectiveness the
Government would form the Council. At the PIU level, there would be another
council, formed by representatives of the implementing agencies. This
council would meet to coordinate at the technical level.
4.        There are eight implementing agencies, six of which are in MEN: the
Schoolmapping Section, School Construction, Personnel, and Basic Education
Directorates, National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) and INFP. The other two
are the Public Administration Center and INAGHEI. The PIU has dealt with
five of these eight agencies in previous projects, and these five are respon-
sible for implementing the bulk of the project. The specific responsibili-
ties for each implementing agency are described below. The Schoolmapping
Section would be responsible for carrying out the schoolmapping study, as
well as for analysis and presentation of proposals for double shift implemen-
tation. The School Construction Directorate would be re_ponsible for
organizing itself. The Personnel and Basic Education Directorates would be
responsible for implementing the Teacher Charter; the Basic Education
Directorate for carrying out the teacher motivation study, providing inspec-
tors with better working conditions, and planning and implementing the basic
education reform under instructions from the Basic Education Reform
Committee. IPN would provide services to enable the basic education reform



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
to progress, i.e., curriculum development and testing of programs, teacher
training, production and distribution of educational materials and evaluation
of the reform. INFP would be responsible for the planning and implementation
of the reform of the vocational/technical training system. The Public
Administration Institute would carry out inservice training programs for the
civil service; and INAGHEI would carry out accountant training programs.
Procedures
5.        All implementing agencies would develop annual workprograms already
approved by their respective ministers and submit them to PIU. This new
procedure would assist the Goverrnent in increasing efficiency and account-
ability. Under Cr. 1305-HA, IPN has already experimented with this modus
operandi. With appropriate strengthening of its planning and accounting
staff, it is expected to successfully perform its assigned role. Other
agencies would have to start producing annual workprograms; INFP would do so
with technical management assistance, the other agencies have much smaller
programs and are expected to comply without undue difficulty.
6.        The PIU's plan of action would be based on the annual workprograms
of the implementing agencies, and on the availability of Government funds for
the project. The review of implementation and reordering of priorities as
necessary would take place in February-March.
7.        The PIU would be responsible for preparing periodic progress
reports on the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the project. A sum-
mary list of monitoring variables is given on pages 5 and 6. A new format
would be developed, derived from the annual workprogram exercise and taking
into account the available computer technology in the PIU. Reports would be
sent on a semiannual basis to IDA, the Council and all implementing agen-
cies. Regular monitoring meetings would be held with each agency. The PITU,
as in previous projects, would also be responsible for organizing the project
completion study.
Implementation Schedule
8.        The project is at an advanced stage of preparation because of the
provisiox of the PPF. Technical assistance for curriculum development at
INFP would ensure that the new programs for the first year would be ready by
October 1985. All programs in basic education would be ready for implemnenta-
tion on October 1985, because they are continuations of programs established
or experimented with under Cr. 1305-HA.  All adjustments to be made would be
submitted to IDA for approval by August 1, 1985. All personnel files for
basic education staff have already been updated, and a new payment system is
in place facilitating the application and control of the Teacher Charter.
The schoolmapping study has started and should be finished by June 1986.  The
beneficiaries of fellowships have started their studies and completed the
study tour. Master equipment lists were approved during appraisal for all
project components. Remodelling of two technical training schools and INFP
would start in September 1985; final designs have been submitted and found
acceptable. Preliminary designs and tender documents have been prepared for
the Public Administration Center.  Bids have been invited, and evaluation of
the bids would take place in Marth 1985. Construction activities would start
about July 1985.



- 49 -
A-NEX 7
Pie- 3of 6
9.        During negotiations, the Government agreed to an lmplementation
program for the studies and educational policy reviews.
General
Consult with IDA prior to implementing education measures for the
private sector.
1985
(a) Present financially feasible, double shift proposals for the
Departments of Grand' Anse, Sud and Sud-Est (June 30);
(b) Present proposals to effectively redistribute and use the inspector
corps (July 31);
(c) Present proposals to integrate overage students in reform programs
(August 31).
(d) Present agreements between INFP and MinSoc, and INFP and ONA&C
(August 31).
Ce) Discuss objectives of second cycle by grade, and global objectives
for third cycle (September 30).
(f) Present the revised salary scale for the vocational/technical
subsector staff (September 30).
1986
(a) Present terms of reference for the teacher motivation study
(January 31)
(b) Present results of the study on organization of School Constructic'i
Directorate (January 31) and complete organizational arrangements
(September 30).
(c)  Present results of schoolnapping study (June 30).
(d) Present results of the study on recurrent budget, with view to
presenting recommendations on how textbooks can be made available
at lower costs to students, e.g., subsidization, loan schemes,
(July 31) and agree on implementation timetable.
(e) Discuss results of the study on women in labor force (July 31) and
integrate results in training programs (December 31).
(f) Discuss objectives and nr-grams for grades 6, 7, and 8
(September 31).
(g)  Organize study tours for  _.ntxool Construction Directorate staff
(September 31).
(h) Present a financially feasible proposal to implement double shifts
in remaining six Departments by June 30, 1986.
(i) Discuss results of the teacher motivation study (December 31).



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
(j) Present terms of reference for studies on construction norms and
community participatieu in maintenance (December 31).
(k) Discuss 1987/91 Education Sector Investment Plan (December 31).
1987
(a)  Carry out an exauination for grade 7 school leavers (July 31);
(b) Present results studies on construction norms and community
participation in school maintenance (September 30).
(c) Discuss objectives and programs for grades 7, 8 and 9
(September 30).



M&mitor1zm  UILeftors
Bsic Edtuatim                          1984/85         1985/86         I91687            1987/88         12L8/89
k         whicles, tterLala                                          90              105              120              120
Procueat of whkcles                             Aat 1985
Tea*or Charter
No. of people recelfflrg salaries                                 8,124            8,211            8,306            6,337
No. clasaro    grade 1, applylg reform         2,000             2,400            2,900             3,400           3,900                    U'
Introduction of refom                          Grade 3         Grade 4          Grade 5          Grade 6          Grade 7
&xprieotation of refom                          Grades 4,5,6   Grades 5,6,7    Grads 6,7,8       Grades 7,8,9    Grades 8,9,10
No. of teswrs beivg tralned, grade 1/2                            2,400            1,810            2,150
s  t       n            o    grade 3/4                            1,500            1,60
of           O      00   grade 5/7                              400            1,010            1,1oo
It               of  "t      "gae 8/10                               92              600              600
No. of directors baiz  trained                                      400              400              400
EducatLaal Materlals
No. of teachers receivig teacher guldes                          4,050            4,750             1,150
No. of Stixeots receiving bodw                                   34,700           32,450            14,450
Reua Proypm
No. of teachers receiving guides
No., of stuats  receiving boos                                   32,900           67,850         79,100
Fundture - No. of claosroomu                                        210



-52-                                                  7
P*e 6 of 6
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRALNING PROJECT
1984/85       1985/86       1986/87         1987/88        19I8/89
vocatEcoaL1redoicia Tralnbg
EarIu_atfg_a VUh bdium                                     Year 1        Year 2          Year 3
Evauia  of  hwrEulh Eiq.                                                   x
CEP raz*flhzg                                                                           Brm
ap~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Hait{a
CS rindetliag                                            St. MarieCpaote
CFT raelmg                                                 CTH                        J.L Dad
CFFP                      EFe DubL
- fi=l dei    de eq:t Uls                    CEIPH
CPii                     J.. D
ELLe Dubois
- sd                                                        CFR    J.. Dler
ELLe Dd8s
- techa assisc                                               1P           CP
Do=a prooaemir   - study -n requLrsm         x
-puntwuse mq3.ter                         X
~~~~mte ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ {F
-   zatlawalstuly O                   x
s-|y tor stf 
-stuies                                                    x             x
- acboozuprg                                 x
INP: 4 staf                                                 x              x               x
_                                        x
lNEP
x~~~
x
Tecdoal asodsts- Noe st :fmb                               93             84              31
-Determnin trakdxg regirmp                                 x
-  stcuctor tce                                             x              x               x
- Sa  eatrepesw tdg                                         x              x              I
- SCbml sXeryjim                                            x                              x
- Sttdy cL   m in I    form                                Ix
- udEvLslpoam for                                                          x x             x
- Contrutfm                                   x             X
- De^tennatim traimlg =mda                                  x
- Tralkg  {g    - No. of part1ci[                                         160             200            240
kutt P            e - - TedKiLcaA asmx                              x                      x



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
Page I of 6
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing
1.        The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$22.3 mil-
lion, net of taxes. These costs include the additional operational
expenditures to be financed during the project implementation period by the
ministries involved in the project. The costs also include a PPF of
US$500,000 approved in December 1983 and a second tranche of US$420,000 in
December 1984. The breakdown of total costs by project item and type of
expenditure are in Tables 1 and 2.
2.        Base Cost.  Cost estimates are expressed in January 1985 prices on
the basis of March 1984 prices and actual costs obtained under Credits 770-HA
and 1305-HA. Total project costs include, in addition to capital expendi-
tures, all incremental operational expenditures (salaries, consumable goods,
transportation, maintenance, etc.). Special attention has been given to
estimating these operational expenditures in order to ensure that sufficient
operational budget would be available for the ministries involved in the
project. Staff hired under the project would be given renewable contracts
annually. Teacher Charter costs are based on the salary grid described in
the Charter; all operational costs for travel, teacher training costs,
salaries, per diems, etc. have been based on PIU accounting of Cr. 1305-HA.
Unit costs of teacher training courses range from US$15 to US$93 depending on
the length and place of the course. Educational materials range in cost from
US$0.60 to US$1.10 per book, while teacher guides range from US$1.40 to
US$3.00.
3.        Construction costs for remodelling the vocational and technical
training centers are based on actual remodelling costs financed by
Cr. 770-HA. The costs of new construction for the Public Administration
Training Center is based on the costs of comparable new urban construction.
Professional fees for design and supervision are included and represent 14
percent of these cost estimates.
4.        Furniture and equipment lists have been reviewed and approved
during appraisal and have been found reasonable in scope and cost.  Furniture
costs amount to about 12 percent of the construction costs; equipment costs
are not related to construction costs, because the need for equipment is not
restricted to areas to be remodelled. Transportation are based on PIU
experience in Cr. 770-HA and Cr. 1305-HA.
5.        The total cost of the technical assistance is estimated at USS3.0
million or a staffmonth cost of about US$500 to US$1,500 for local consul-
tants and about US$3,400 to US$10,400 for international consultants. The
cost of international consultants includes salary, costs, fees, subsistence
and international travel. The technical assistance would support the
introduction of the Teacher Charter; the study on teacher motivation; the
basic education curriculum development, educational materials, training
programs, and evaluations studies; the establishment of the Schooi Construc-
tion Department; the institutional reinforcement of INFP curriculum develop-
ment for technical schools; the establishment of the Public Administration
Training Center; accountant training and project administration. The base
costs for scholarships are estimated at US$2,000 per staffmonth.



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
HaITr
FOURTH EDUCUTION ANiD TRAINDIG PROJECT
Tabl 1: P        alsr SUWI
In wize th2aadk                 In U;S PI    IEtW
A. Basic FAltiaa                      Local rU            Total      Local        P        Toa
lwvcmwt af Uodz Cad1tis
Lmspector                         1,921.8   3,972.5    5,894.3    384.4      794.5   1,178.9        69
Tsacblr                          18,629         0.0   18,629.7   3,7259        0.0    3,725.9      -0-
2D,551.5   3,972.5   24,524.0   4,110.3    794.5   4,904.8        16
Qumt1tawe Aspects
Taing                            8,770.7        8.4    8,779.1   1,754.1       1.7   1,755.8       -0-
!ducat1ioN  M!terEals            3,814.4    8.2463   12,160.7    762.8   1,649.3   2,412.1          67
94wevs1m                        1.066.6       23.6    1,090.2    213.3       4.7      218.0        2
Iba1atix                         2,542.5      697.6   3,240.2     M8.5       139.5     648.0        22
Fqr=w~:EuThird Cycle             3,049.0    2,968.8   6,017.8    609.8       539.8    1,203.6      49
Fernitum                           559.2    1 35D.9    1,910.1    118.8      270.2     382.0        71
19,8M.4   13,295.6  33,196.1   3,960.3   2,605.2    6,619.5        39
SubtaL   c E1ucat               40,353.9   17,268.1   57,722.1   8,070.6    3,399.7   11,524.3     30
B. Voam'tkau1T4,cm1 Tralnlz
VocatL; l Pr   -                 2,247 A    2,544.0    L,791.3    49.5       s1m.8     958.3       53
edcml Progc         3.46                    5,810.1    9.13.7    664.9    1 162.0    1 8269.       64
5,572.0    8,354.1   13,926.0   1,114.4   1:670.8   2.785.Z       60
C. EdI BJMSector yt.
mmN                                818.4      976.3   1,794.7    163.7       195.2     359.0        54
                                 s5m88.5       0.0     588.5      17.7       0.0      117.7       -0-
fiEP                             2,567.4    5,599.8   8,167.1    513.5   1,120.0  1JJM34           69
3,974.3    6,576.1   10,550.3    794.9   1,315.2    2,110.1       62
D. PE    ..d.liratica
PubiLc  Tibin tra  Tr. ter       4,M30.1    3,796.8   8,096.8    860.0       759.8    1,619.8      47
. touSZm1t Tbid  PEOgraU            6b        594.0      6W0.4      1.3      118.8     120.1       99
4,3C6.5   ,4,392.8   8,699 2     8613      878.6   1,739.8        50
E. Project PneparatnmM and hIn.
Project U1Lt                     6,010.5    1,168.9   7,179.4   1,202.1      233.8   1,435.9        16
Project PreprstImio FArcllfy     1,510.6    2,294.7    3,805.4    302.1      458.9     761.1       60
7,521.2    3,463.6   10,984.8   1,504.2    692.7   2,197.0        32
BMeiIn Costs                     61,729.0   40,053.2  101,782.2  12,345.8   8,010.6   20,356.4      39
Ph3uLCaL Costmacm                1,107.1    1,937.2    3.0443     221.4      387.4     608.9       64
Pra Ccot d                        3.17.3    3,669.5   6,806.8    627.5       733.9   1,361.4        54
mL      F   0a               65,973.4   45,660.0  111,633.4  13,194.7    9,132.0   22,326.7      41



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Tab le 2.  _mi  In am io
_UIE  '0063               u   lUl       S m             Tta
K Forimm kow
Lo1l  Foigo   Total      Loal  Foot*  Toal   .X    ptu
1. DEREI   COM
A. CIIL 11124 2345 2P210.7  4.6B4.2    434.7  492.1   93.                                 4F       5
L EUIIT                              42.7 7,311.4  7s723.       1.5 1,43. 1,5.64          95       I
C. 9lAE                               32.6 2v0W.   29%2.4    106.5  466.0   1S              9       3
3   OB                               U1.3 2M46.4  2t54.1        2.2   313   30.4          95       2
E. UI1ELENS A WIME SULT              1543   7.9    924.2    39.1  14.3   1.3              79       1
F. iur    IIIIS                    2b433.0  173.4 UM5U.4    406.6 1,g317 2,12.3            n9     11
6. TEOWL Iamma
1. UIUL   ILTUS                 5.4053        -  5445.3  189.2         - 1.19.2          -       5
2. EURATE    UE,TUhI                  - fe51.0  9.UU            - 1916 1.917.6         too       9
3. FELaS                              - 1,375.7  1,375.7        -  275.1   275.1       100       1
4. S13                           1,U5.3       -  16135.1    3.2        -   323.2         -       2
hb-Total IEoUiCMl ASITAC          7.P6L.6lba.J  Ud5.3   1412.3 29192.7 3M.                       13
HL. PR  I WM1                      5.3.4        -  5453.4  1903.7        - 1.30.7          -       S
1. INUIF   E Ta e                 10.3.5        - 10,376.5  2,075.3      - 2.75.3          -      10
Total IUETENr CUl                    297424.4 34793.3 646207.7  5.13. 61.7 12.41.5           54      6
II.  MI  con
A. LOCAL IlI   M  UusUU           1,153.0       -  1,153.0    390.       -   390.6         -       2
3. STAFF  S3A1                   Th2.0          - 27.125.9  5.425.2      - 5.425.2        -       27
C. EIiIT I      1T   1 rUNIDER   2176.2 1l3..4  3.M.6    45.2  270.7           5.9        39   3
3. t_E         133 L.S            1.39.6 3,916.6  4,%6.2    209.?  73.3        3.2       79       5
tal in        t IDES CUM134.6 5,29.9 37.574.6  6460.? 1,654.0 7.514.                         14      37
TOtal E    lE CUTS                    61712.0 4bW 3.2 101.712 12430. 1,4.4 20.36.4            39    1i
Fbsial Ca*iodencias                 U107.1  197.2  3M4.3    221.4  3W.4   6.9              64       3
Pria Cb_otim a                      3,137.3 3,669.5  6i.l    627.5  733.9  s1.4            54       7
Total FUECT COSS1                     6573.4 40,60.0 111633.4 139194.7 9nu2. 224MU.7          41     110
Ranch 275 13 14:07



- 56 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
6.        Foreign Exchange Component.  The total foreign exchange component
is estimated at about US$9.1 million, or about 41 percent of total project
costs, net of taxes. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at 50 percent for
construction, 70 percent for furniture, 95 percent for vehicles and
equipment, 80 percent for materials and textbooks, 40 percent for equipment
operation and maintenance, and 100 percent for international technical
assistance and fellowships.  No foreign exchange component has been
calculated for local consultants, salaries, and per diems and training
courses.
7.        Duties and Taxes.  There are no identifiable taxes since all items
imported specifically for the project would be exempt from customs duties and
taxes under current regulations.
8.        Contingency Allowances.  The price contingencies (USS1.4 million)
have been calculated based on the following assumptions:
(a) annual increases in local costs would be 8 percent, with the
exception of services which would increase by 2 percent annually;
(b) annual increases of foreign costs would be 5 percent in 1985, 7.5
percent in 1986 and 8 percent thereafter, with the exception of
technical assistance which is assumed to increase by 0 percent in
1985 and 1986, 2 percent in 1987 and 3 percent in 1988.
These predictions for te-hnical assistance are based on the observation that
there is fierce competition in the field at the moment. The physical
contingencies (US$0.6 million) have been estimated at 5 percent for
construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles, and materials; 2 percent for
technical assistance, the project unit, salaries, training programs; 1
percent for equipment operation and maintenance and 0 percent for local staff
salaries.
Financing Plan
9.        The total project costs of about US$22.3 million (net of taxes)
would be financed as follows:
Table 3: Financing Plan
US$ million                      %
Local    Foreign      Total    Local  Foreign  Total
IDA                       4.3        5.7        10.0     43       57      100
Government of             3.5        2.5         6.0     58       42      100
Switzerland
Government of Haiti
- investment budget       0.7       0.1          0.8     88       12      100
- recurrent budget        4.7       0.8          5.5     85       15      100
Total    13.2        9.1        22.3      59      41       100



- 57 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
An IDA credit of SDR 10.4 million (US$10 million equivalent) on standard
terms will finance about 62 percent of the foreign costs and 45 percent of
the total costs. Co-financing by the Swiss Government of SwF 15 million
(US$6 million equivalent) will finance 26.8 percent of the total costs. The
Government of Haiti will be requested to provide contributions from the
investment and recurrent budget in the following amounts (Table 4).
Table 4: Government Contributions by Year
(US$ thousands at 1984 Costs)
1984/85  1985186  1986/87  1987/88   1988/89       TOTAL*
Investment Budget   75.7      288.9      220.2    241.2        0.0     825.9
Recurrent Budget
of which:
- MEN                         454.5      952.4  1,454.2   1,950.6   4,811.6
- Ministry of the              -0-       139.4    279.6      280.4     699.4
Presidency
* Differences due to rounding.
Recurrent Costs
10.       Table 5 shows the breakdown by financier of the investment and
recurrent costs.  The total additional recurrent costs for MEN over the four
years are US$4.8 million.  The breakdown of MEN's additional recurrent costs
by type of expenditure is shown in Table 5, and shown by component below.
US$ thousands
Total     1988
Vocational/Technical Schools              1,747       635
Teacher Charter                           3,064     1,315
4,811     1,950
11.       The annual recurrent expenditure likely to be generated by the
project in 1988/89 is estimated at G 9.7 million in 1984 prices (Table 4).
For MEN, and the Ministry of the Presidency this implies increases of about
10 percent and 8 percent, respectively, over their 1984/85 budgets. The
increase for MEN is considered reasonable given the Government objectives.
The Ministry of the Presidency is expected to be able to accommodate these
incremental costs without undue difficulty. However, to ensure continued
operation of the project after the investment phase is finished, the
additional recurrent costs for the year 1988/89 have been included in the
total project costs and in a covenant on counterpart fund.



- 58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
mm
Table 5.                 Fla he    r
TII F 517t   1     IF
is       ofur,i.a      U fl15   MISEM            11!          Toutl
-   - ~~~~~~ taisl                            .  MMZ I
4MVA  Z    b S   I   #M   I   i                I   f t Z   X            z   Fo. EVA6      Ti)        T ms
*.    -      cm$
A. WIL  _                            4      4         -   -       -   -       -   -      . 62.0   1I274  5.3        541.         M3          -
L. E_WT                            1,794.7 9.2        -   -       -   -       -   -   14.7 S.T  1f.4  316         1712.1          97.1       -
C. FI                               *47.9 95.3        -   -       -   -       -   -   323 4.7   13.2  3.0             1          21          -
3. VINI                              mm   9.2           -     -        -      -   -    4.7  O        7.7  2.6       1            314         -
E. NI6IE    IFl WM                 229. 0740         -   -       -   -       -   -    4.9 2.9    2n.,  11          1u            WI         -
F. M1B   l  _ll S                  1.25.1 42.0  1.2-64 34         -   -       -   -       I0 hO  2oU.7  12A    2Z..7             13.         _
L. ITM. Mz5mM
1. Ulr Jl 1 31                    50.5 13.7    591.2 51.3       -   -      -   -    0.0 0.0  1t.114   5.2            -      1.t. 
2. EW*          LT C UTI        1,t4.4  1.9    913.4 47.1       -   -      -   -       -   -  1704. 31 Si       t4               -        -
3. _AN                            124.7 44.7    1546 21.3       -   -      -   -       -   -    231.   1            .            -        -
4. S1_M 3.3  .5                                 M4  201         -   -      -   -   ALI3  .2    17.6  1.1             -         327.
l-Tew1 IWiEM.L 3u13               I1.3L3 51.6  1.7446I 46.4       -   -       -   -   1.3  1.3  hJ47.  16         221           t.2          -
M. MEC5AUE 1FS I_                    42.9 42.0   61.7 3           -   -       -   -       -   -  1173.   543            -      1.173         -
1. a      Pi   5                    9244   A   1277.2 3.          -   -       -   -       -   -  226.   9.9            -       2L. 
T1a IWIhhun   can                    &217.7 57.1  1341.2 7.1         -   -       -   -  I.  5.7 t4.L   64.4    7M.4              4              -
11. -I     co
i. u1 . 1T     1   315              170.7 1*.0    235.8 3.       -   -       -   -       -   -    4M.5   1             -        44LA
L SF IMAMI                        1,064.1 13.7    215.  5.1 3.3.! 45.   596.7 10.7       -   -   ,S15.1 2.1          -           51         -
C.3 E TWis1IU355 O     31DM1         494 41.3     V.3 4.6   172 21.7  12.7 12.7    0.0 0.0 hO       9.3  3.        305.4       5.           -
3     3W   ETEs                     U.S  4.1      94.6 8.4   97. 15.4        -   -    0.0 0O   1.131.1  5.1        3.1         243.9        -
Total    1T COSTS                     1.71M.3 22.4    69.4  32  4111. 40.6  699.4 3A        . 0 0.0  7941.9 3S6      11924       h70J 
Towal I1nmM                           9t95. 44.1  5394.3 26.9 4.311.6 21.6  639.4 3.1  525.t 3.7 22934.7 10    9132.0             31947 _
Wh. 253 15 14lK



-59-                               ANNM=  9
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Disbursements
1.        The IDA disbursement schedule (Table .1) deviates from the
historical LAC Education Sector Profile for FY74-83, because:
(a) Experience with previous projects in Haiti, especially Cr. 1305-HA,
shows that disbursements are much faster than average. Despite a
slow start, the first 2 projects were fully disbursed in 6.5 years,
versus t'1e regional profile of 11 years for education. Cr. 1305-HA
avoided the initial delays, disbursed against a PPF and a Special
Account in the first semester, and is disbursing even faster than
the previous projects. This is due to the large share the credit
allocates to qualitative programs; i.e. the education reform, which
is proceeding on schedule; and
(b)  The historical profile does not take into account the use of a PPF
and the initial deposit in a Special Account (about US$0.9 and
US$1.1 million, respectively) which would be disbursed during the
first semester.
The forecast of IDA disbursements lags behind the experience under Cr.1305-HA
by approximately one semester, but assumes that the initial delays of the
first two credits would again be avoided. These amounted to 1.5 years,
resulting in a forecast of 5 years for the project. Swiss Government
disbursements are also provided in Table 1.
2.        For recurrent expenditures, the Government would allocate appro-
priate amounts to each ministry as part of its annual recurrent budget plan-
ning. Disbursements would be made according to the normal government
procedures. For the Teacher Charter, the same procedures would be followed
and MEN would receive its monthly salary allocation from the Ministry of
Finance. The Ministry of Finance, however, would be reimbursed from the
Special Account for an amount established at the beginning of each year.
Each quarter, MEN would provide the PIU with actual salary expenditures made
for the categories of the Teacher Charter to be financed and the PIU would
make adjustments in the payment of the next month.
3.        Table 2 indicates the categories which would be filnanced out of the
proceeds of the credit and the Swiss Government contribution, the amounts
allocated to each category and the percentages to be fianmced. Disbursements
would be made against withdrawal applications prepared by the PIU and
submitted to IDA with standard documentation coOering procurement of civil
works, furniture, equipment, technical assistance, textbooks and office
materials. Withdrawal applications would have a lower limit of US$20,000.
Reimbursements for contracts with an IDA share in excess of US$20,000 should
be submitted with full documentation. Statements of expenditure with an
aggregated value of US$7.3 million would be used to disburse expenditures in
local and foreign currency for training courses, local consultants, impleuen-
tation expenditures and for all contracts (local or foreign) with a contract
value below US$10,000. Statements of expenditure would follow detailed
official working agreements, have annual workprograms satisfactory to IDA,
and be subject to specific auditing. Supporting documentation for such
statements would not be sent to IDA but would be available for review during
supervision missions.



-60-                                      ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
FaIM  EDUCAION AND mRADNDMECr
Tabe 1: DlV_bu     t Pmfiles
-atorical ProfIls (Ia Z)                      FatItsl DlAbam      t Proflle
LAC               I D A                        G o S
ud.-   cr.   cr.    CC.
Sector   618   770   1305   Ttal        Pl e     _P Total  Culret Pezcltop
Smestew  FY7443   I        HA     HA   Svte     Semete Srter Swater
-(tE$ th~ iainds                    th miadl-
1          0               0    16*    1,396      1,396     14.0      2,217  2,217    14.5
2          1        0      0    27*       896     2,292      22.9     1,467  3,684    24.6
3          3               0    43*    1,181      3,473      34.7     1,694  5,378    35.8
4          6        6      4    51"*   1,181      4,654     46.5      2,494  7,872    52.5
5         10              10    74**   1,214      5,868     58.7      2,442 10,314    68.8
6         16       23    12    88       1,214     7,082     70.1      2,442 12,756    85.0
7         22              20    93      1,207     8,289     82.9        900 13,656    91.0
8         28       45    32    98         711     9,000     90.0        750 14,406    96.0
9         35              46   100        So0     9,500     95.0        354 14,760    98.4
10         43       65    72              50D    10.000    100.0        240 1500D   100.0
11         50              82a          10,00                         15,O00
12         56       90    92
13         63      laO   100
*     _ ttl
-  Latest hvJ.ad !tneit.
Tabl 2: 2S!ffEs.   h          d Nrotais to be Pie
bytlu Creitc md tim- Gauenm  of Seiderlsd T
Am    to be
Xlocated ftm  tke  Allcated fro the
Csteory                         credit a/   _     d   G    m    8/ 2 of        Lttw  to be F1x
1. CLiJ. rIo                      300,000              -            35Z
2.   wnitue sd IqiLpt           2.000.000             -             1M for f-ei           itue
851 for local     1Zi1es
3. Teiical Asistme,             3,650,000          5,700,00D        100%
Proeassiomal Fees,
Ses, Fe
COuLtmft, Staff Salads.,
tatm~ onto
4. TCber Qhsrt.r                  500,000                           40% of  pedtau  dns    g 3w   1
25% of e   *xatum  dg  ser 2
20% of espditums di      pr 3
16% of eq  i.tures d&rag pr 4
5. Projec Pre   Fatio Paclity    920.000
6. IaLtLal Depod:z Specal Acc.    450,000            300.000
Iaoeflcated Fd               2.180,000
Total          10,000,000         6,000,000
a    dak  of fsxz  b-e    MIL  d    Gtw erint of  etmrwlmd Ig 42% to 58% for azmgry 3.



- 61 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 5
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement, Accounts and Auditing
1.        The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 1.
Table 1: Methods of Procurement by Project Category and Estimated
Percentages of Total Costs to be Financed by IDA and
the Government of Switzerland a/
(US$ millions)
Procurenent Method
Project Category           ICB     LCB      Other     NA        Total Costs
Civil Works                       0.19      0.95                 1.14
(38%)    (38%)
Equipment                 1.28              0.54                 1.82
(99%)            (85%)
Furniture                 0.43              0.27                 0.70
(99%)            (85%)
Vehicles                  0.60                                   0.60
(99%)
Textbooks                                   2.83                 2.83
(100%)
Local Consultants                           1.16                 1.16
(100%)
Expatriate Consultants                      2.00                 2.00
(100%)
Fellowships                                 0.29                 0.29
(100%)
Studies                                     0.35                 0.35
(100l)
Project Unit                                           1.18      1.18
(100%)
Training Courses                                       2.03      2.03
(100%)
Local Travel and                                       0.42      0.42
Subsistence                                         (100%)
Staff Salaries                                         5.61      5.61
(24%)
Equipment Operation
Maintenance                                          0.82     0.82
(61%)
Consummable Materials,
Office Supplies                           0.24       1.14      1.38
(29%)     (29%)
Total      2.31    0.19       8.63      1i.20    22.33
a/  The share of financing between IDA and the Swiss Government is 42% to 58X
for all categories financed 100%, and for staff salaries not related to
the Teacher Charter.



- 62 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 5
Civil Works
2.        Civil works totalling about USSO.9 million, excluding contingen-
cies, are comprised of small additions to or remodelling of existing voca-
tional and technical training centers, and INFP, consisting mostly of
additional workshops and the new construction of the Public Administration
Center. Costs for individual schools range from US$15,000 to US$]85,000 and
facilities are dispersed over the country. Foreign bidders are not expected
to be interested, although they are not being precluded from offeri-ng cons-
truction proposals. Experience under previous Credits (Cr. 816-HA, 770-HA
and 1305-HA) shows that civil works contractors operating in Port-au-Prince
find it inconvenient and unprofitable to construct outside Port-au-Prince or
to carry out remodelling in Port-au-Prince. Consequently, they do not even
bid. The PIU would subcontract for the various trades involved in the
remodelling of vocational/technical schools. These contracts would be award-
ed on the basis of local shopping or negotiations with local subcontractors
prequalified by the PIU. Where possible, the vocational/technical schools
themselves would carry out some of the work.
3.        The construction of the Public Administration Center would be
carried out through local competitive bidding (LCB). The Center would be the
top floor of a new wing of INAGHEI (yet to be built), to be financed by
CIDA. Arrangements proposed are the following:
(a)  The architect retained by CIDA has prepared the preliminary design
for the top floor and the draft tender documents, which are accept-
able to IDA under PPF financing;
(b) Bids from local construction firms prequalified by CIDA have been
requested and contracts would be awarded to the lowest bidder in
accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Costs of the
building for CIDA and the project would be shared in a ratio of
58:42, which is proportionate to the area to be constructed; and
(c)  Supervision would be carried out by a Canadian firm contracted by
the project and CIDA after LCB procedure; supervision costs for
construction would be financed in the same proportion as stated
above.
Because supervision and construction activities would start before project
effectiveness, retroactive financing to a total of US$100,000 is proposed.
Furniture, Equipment and Materials, and Consumable Materials
4.        Contracts for the furniture for the primary schools, estimated to
cost about US$400,000, would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Because of the
limited amounts, furniture for the remodelled vocational/technical schools
would be awarded on the basis of local purchasing. Contracts for equipment,
school materials and vehicles would be grouped as much as possible to form
attractive packages and would be awarded on the basis of ICB ir accordance
with Bank's guidelines when exceeding US$50,000. Miscellaneous items that
cannot be grouped in ICB packages would be procured or the basis of three
price quotations; in aggregate not exceed US$350,000. Prior Bank review
would be required for contracts exceeding USS100,000. Other contracts would



- 63 -
ANNEX JO
Page 3 of 5
contracts would be subject to random review by the Bank after contract
award. In the case of ICB, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a prefer-
ential margin in bid evaluation equal to the prevailing tariff or 15% of the
CIF price of competing foreign supplier, whichever is lower. For all basic
reform components, the Teacher Charter, the vocational/technical education,
public administration and accountancy programs, annual workprograms with
detailed cost estimates and implementation plans would be prepared and sub-
mitted for approval by August 1, 1985. The amount approved would be the
ceiling for that year.
5.        Textbooks would be procured through local shopping under procedures
satisfactory to the IDA. IPN, after completing the manuscripts, would
request offers for production and distribution of textbooks to be cs.rried out
at the risk of the printing company. Although no foreign firms would be pre-
cluded from presenting offers, only local companies have shown interest in
these arrangements, because only local companies have the distribution net-
works. The PIU would purchase back copies for classroom use. Textbooks for
the experimental phase of the reform would be printed by local printers based
on negotiated contracts. Under PPF 50 and 100 staffmonths of international
and local technical assistance, respectively, have already been financed; 29
and 12 staffmonths provided by ILO and UNESCO, respectively. Employment of
consultants through contracts with ILO and UNESCO is acceptable to IDA in
accordance with the guidelines of August 1981. Tables 2 and 3 give the list
of specialist services and scholarships. Consultants and technical assis-
tance would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement is
inapplicable for staff salaries, local travel and subsistence, and operation
and maintenance of equipment.
Accounts and Auditing
6.        The PIU would maintain four separate accounts for the project,
(Special Accounts each for the IDA and Swiss revolving fund, an account for
the Government's revolving fund, and a Project Account) accordance with
acceptable accounting practices. The PIU is responsible for maintaining
Special and Project Accounts for Cr. 770-HA and Cr. 1O05-HA.  With technical
assistance, it has recently started to use a system more appropriate to the
scale of the project operations. The accounts were audited up to February
1983 by Peat, Marwick and Mitchell. The recommendations of this audit firm
have led to the revision of the accounting systems of the PIU as well as of
IPN. Expenditures incurred for each project element would be recorded
separately to facilitate monitoring of project costs. A quarterly summary of
project accounts reflecting cumulative expenditures incurred by the end of
the quarter would accompany those progress reports sent to IDA for informa-
tion. Annual auditirg would be required for all expenditures financed under
the project, in particular, for those expenditures reimbursed under the
statement of expenditure procedures. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that, the Special Accounts, Project Accounts and state-
ments of expenditure would be audited annually by qualified independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and a certified ccpy of the annual audit report
would be sent to IDA within six months following the end of each fiscal year
during project implementation.



- 64 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 5
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PRO.'ECT
Table 2: Technical Assistance to be Provided by Staffmonths Cmpo_ent
Project Preparation                                      International   Local
Development of Initial Government Proposal                    7              51
Study on Textbook Pricing                                     1
CPF Curriculum Development and Organization                  31              18
INFP Management and Reorganization                            6
IPN Reorganization                                                           12
Preparation of Final Designs                                                 20
Study of Computer Requirements                                5
Subtotal                                               50            100
Teacher Motivation Study                                      2              36
Basic Education
Curriculum Development                                       12              36
Textbook Financing Study                                      3
Training Programs                                                            12
Monitoring and Evaluation                                     1               6
Third Cycle                                                  24
School Construction Department                               11         -    48
Vocational/Technical Training
Technical Schools                                                            24
INFP:
Management and Organization                                30
Organization of IWorkshops and Installation of
Equipment                                                24
Programming of Production Materials/Training               12
2 UN Volunteers                                            48
School Supervision                                          4
Female Participation                                        3
Small Enterprises                                           3
Printing of Didactic Materials                              1
Other (to be determined)                                    7
Administration                                                             36
Garage/Training Center                                                    36
Job Analysis                                                                6
Public Administration Training                               48
Accountant                                                   19
Project Unit                                                 12
TOTAL                                              314            340



- 65 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 5
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAIlIING PROJECT
Table 3: Scholarships to be Provided by Component
Number of       Number of
Project Preparation                       Beneficiaries    Staffmonths
Curriculum Development                          2               36
School Construction                             2                1
IPN
Evaluation Unit                                                84
Technical Schools
CFPH                                          5              15
J.B. Damier                                   4              16.
Elie Dubois                                   3                9
INFP
Management                                    1                3
Preparation Teaching Materials                1               3
Cente.r Supervision                           1              15
Key Tuchnical Staff                           5              15
Specialized Instructors                       4               4
CFPAPP                                          4                6
MEN
School Construction Department                  2               6
213



- 66 -                                  11
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Benefits and Risks
Benefits
1.        The project would belp implement the reform of basic and voca-
tional/technical education, improve management of the sector and provide
opportunities for training in the public administration. This would result
in improvements in (a) the number of students entering basic education,
(b) the efficiency with respect to the number of years of investment needed
to produce four year and seven year graduates, (c) the quality of education
at the basic, vocational and technical level, (d) the chances for school
leavers to acquire meaningful skills and employment, and the quality of the
workpool in the labor market, (e) education sector management, and (f) the
quality of Government employees' skills, especially in the areas of finance
and management.
A. Improvement in Access
2.        The number of students entering the public education system would
be increased by using the data of the schoolmapping study to plan for
(a) double shifts in urban areas and (b) the addition of classrooms and
intensification of use of underutilized buildings throughout the country.
Adding double shifts to all urban schools would result in 120,000 additional
school places, an increase of about 40 percent.
B. Improvement in Internal Efficiency
3.        The expected reduction in dropouts and repetition would lover the
average number of years of schooling currently needed to produce one
graduate. In the old system, an average of 15-21 school years is needed to
produce a grade 6 graduate; with the reform, it is assumed that 4.9 school-
years would be needed to produce a grade 4 graduate, and 12.1 schoolyears to
produce a grade 7 graduate. Even this relatively modest reduction in
internal efficiency of eight years per graduate at an expenditure of US$30
per student per year, would free resources to cover the salaries of almost
1,400 additional teachers or to provide US$6.50 worth of additional educa-
tional materials for every student in the system in 1981/82, without
additional cost to MEN's recurrent budget.
C. Improvement in Quality
4.        The quality of student learning in basic education would improve
because of the availability of (a) more adequate curricula presented in
Creole, (b) teachers with upgraded qualifications, and (c) textbooks and
learning materials in much greater quantities. This would be equally true
for the public and private schools. The quality in the vocational system
would improve as a result of (a) adequate curricula which offer practical
experience in workshops, (b) teachers with proper qualifications, and tc) an
enhanced supervision system. The quality in the technical training schools



- 67 -
ANEX 11
PageZof 4
would inprove because students would be able to obtain practical experience
in workshops and laboratories, and teachers would be better trained. In
1988/89, an estimated total of about 557,000 basic school students in grades
1-4, about 158,000 in grades 5-7, 1,500 in the vocational system and 800 in
technical schools would benefit from these programs. At the basic level,
about half would be girls; at the vocational/technical level about 22 percent
would be female participants. As more children complete the four year cycle
and attain literacy, beneficial effects can be expected. Children with
literate mothers have better levels of general health and literate farmers
produce more. The combined effects of increased literacy, particularly in
rural areas, could help the country decrease its level of malnutrition and
child mortality, and therefore increase the quality of its initial human
resources, as well as production. These effects, as vell as improving the
quality of vocational/technical education, would raise GDP in the long term.
D. Improvement in Chances to Acquire Employment
5.        By offering short, modular courses in the Polyvalent and Satelite
Training Centers, school leavers would have increased chances to acquire
meaningful skills leading to employment. At project completion, the capacity
would be in place to offer courses to some 1,500 school leavers and adults,
of which some 60 percent to 70 percent are expected to oomplete a module and
obtain a certificate. Since the country suffers from structural
unemployment, training would facilitate the chances for school leavers to
find jobs or become gainfully self-employed. The new system at the
vocational and technical level would be more adapted to the needs of the
labor market. All training would be practical rather than academic; the
system would be more responsive to short term labor market needs, to the
needs of women and of the nonformal labor market.
E. Strengthening of Education Sector Management
6.        Managerial improvements would result from  (a) strenghening MEN's
planning capacity because of better information systems, and annual
disucssions on priorities and implications of policy decisions in the light
of available resources; (b) organizing MEN's capacity to deal with school
construction and repair issues itself rather than through independent, donor-
financed, implementation units; (c) strengthening IPN's capacity to manage
its complex tasks in the reform preparation; and (d) strengthening INFP to
start to play a decisive role in the reform of the vocational/technical
training system.
F. Improvement in Public Administration Skills
7.        Improvements in the skills of government employees would result
from (a) courses in accounting and (b) inservice training for selected groups
of civil servants, mainly in finance and management. This would specifically
improve the implementation of investment programs and projects, including IDA
financed ones. Implementation would be more efficient and rapid, and would
result in quicker disbursements and reduced cost overruns. This in turn
would increase and distribute more broadly the benefits from these
investments.
Risks
8.        There are several risks associated with the project:



- b8 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
(a)  Implementation of the basic education reform is in large
measure dependent on the private sector.
(b) Uncertainty remains regarding the extent of parallel
investments to be made by other donors.
(c)  Sustained expenditures (investment and recurrent) over the
medium and long term are required to ensure implementation of
the full education reform.
A. Dependence on Private Sector
9.        The private sector will be responsible for reaching full coverage
of reform programs for all school children, and the Government does not
control the rate of implementation of the reform by the private sector. To
encourage the private sector, the project finances incentives, i.e., teacher
training and provision of educational materials, for all classrooms (includ-
ing private) implementing the reform. By demonstrating the benefits of the
reform through results in the public sector schools, the Government also
hopes to stimulate the demand from parents. In addition, the Government is
studying how to change its role vis-a-vis the private sector, possibly with
further assistance from USAID. So that this situation and the evolution of
the reform may be closely and carefully monitored, the Government has been
requested to inform IDA of its intended policies vis-a-vis the private
sector, and to discuss necessary adjustments with IDA.
B. Uncertainty about Parallel Investments
10.       Parallel investments by other donors may either leave important
areas unattended or may duplicate investments proposed under this project.
This risk has been minimized by taking into account only the investments
likely to be made by the Government of France, and the CIDA support for
INAGREI already agreed on between the Goverments of Haiti and Canada. All
other activities required for successful implementation of the reform and the
project have been included in the project. As support from other donors
becomes available, project savings may occur. IDA would continue its
dialogue with other donors and the Government to ensure parallelism rather
than duplication of efforts, and to ensure that the Government has the
administrative capacity to handle these investments simultaneously.
C. Need for Government Contributions
11.       There is a risk that Government contributions would not be forth-
coming in a timely fashion or in the amounts required to implement the
project as envisioned. The need for funds from the investment budget is
limited mostly to the construction of vocational/training schools, and the
CFPAFP, the purchases of furniture and equipment, and audit costs. Given the
high political priority being given to establishing the vocational/technical
training system, it is likely that provision of Government contributions
would also receive priority. In addition, the construjction activities have
been spread over the three project years and MEN has been asked to discuss



- 69 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 4 of 4
its annual investment plan with IDA to ensure that adequate contributions are
requested and provided, and that new investments oy MEN do not jeopardize the
requirements for investments already started.
12.       Funds from the recurrent budget would be needed for two ministries
in increasing amounts during the life of the project. To counteract the
trend of decreasing allocations to MEN, the additional recurrent budget
needed for three years has been included as part of project costs. In
addition, the recurrent costs for the fourth year of implementation, when no
additional investments are to be made, have been included as part of project
costs, so that the national authorities would be aware of the need for these
contributions. During annual budget discussions these requirements would be
recalculated and inserted in the national budget.
D. Need for Sustained Medium and Long Term Expenditures
13.       In order to fully realize the benefits inherent in this project,
additional investments would be needed to extend and complete the education
reform. For basic education, an additional investment of about US$2 million
per year would be needed for another three years if the introduction of the
reform evolves as predicted. For the vocational system, an additional seven
Polyvalent Training Centers and eight Satellite Training Centers would be
necessary to adequately introduce the system countrywide, at an estimated
cost of about US$2.0-million. To minimize this risk, the Government has been
requested to produce a medium term investment plan and to inform IDA about
its efforts to fund it on time. In addition, the contemplated follow-up
lending by IDA would ensure that the full benefits of previous lending would
be realized.
14.       To sustain the improvements made in the education sector, a larger
recurrent budget would have to be allocated to this sector. Whether this
implies a larger share of the Government's budget and what decisions on
priorities the Government might have to make would be studied during the next
economic mission scheduled for January 1986. IDA would enter into a dialogue
with the Government on these issues and attempt to reach agreement before
follow-up lending would take place.



70 -ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Project File
1.  Government Project Request:  of December 1983
a. Formation des Maitres et Supervision Pedagogique.
b.  Evaluation.
c.  Applic-ation du Statut des Enseignants.
d.  Programmes Pedagogiques et Material Didactique.
e.  Enseignement Professionel et Technique.
f.  Le role du Secteur prive dans l'education Nationale.
g.  Formation pour la Fonction Publique.
h. Avant-Projei. d'Etude et Propositions of February 1984.
2. Sectoral Documents
a.  Revue de Programme, Secteur Education et Etude des ONG
Canadienne, Haiti, CIDA, 1982.
b. Rapport de mission inter-disciplinaire de l'Unesco en Haiti, 3-19
October, 1983.
c.  Projections of Recurrent Expenditure in Public Primary Education,
Unesco, Education Financing Division, EFI8- July 1984.
d.  Plan Biennal, 1984-1986, Tome 1 and 2, August 1984.
3. Supporting Documents
a.  Proposition en vue de resoudre la question linguistique, deuxieme
cycle, IPN, March 1984.
b.  Teacher Charter: Determination of Salary Scales, mission, April 1984.
c.  Seminaire sur l'access des femmes a la formation scientifique et
technique en Haiti, INFP, September 1984.
d.  Rapport de synthese du traitement des fiches -!nateriel  pour l'annee
1983-1984, IPN, Evaluation Unit, December 4, 1984.
e.  Analyse et definitions des interventions a entreprendre -n termes de
constructions d'agrandissewent et de reparatiorn des ecoles publiques
dans les Departements de la Grand' Anse, du Sud et du Sud-Est, Carte
Scolaire, Project Haiti/PNUDI, UNESCO 82/001, June 1984.



- 71 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
f. Decree on Private Sector, September 23, 1974.
Decree on Organic Law, November 22, 1984.
Decree on Teacher Charter, October 29, 1984.
Decree on Public Administration Training Center, March 11, 1985.
Decree on Vocational/Technical Training and Organization of INFP,
March 14, 1985.
g. Cofinancing Agreement with the Government of Switzerland,
October 30, 1984.
4. Working Papers
a. Amelioration des conditions de travail, working paper, November 1984.
b. Teacher Charter draft working paper, September 1984.
c. Programmes Pedagogiques et material didactique, working paper,
November 1984.
d.  Experimentation du Troisieme Cycle, working paper, November 1984.
e. Operations de Formation, working paper, November 1984.
f. Operations de supervision et de suivi, working paper, November 1984.
g. Operations d'Evaluation, working paper, November 1984.
h. Renforcement Administratif de l'IPN, working paper, November 1984.
i. Genie Scolaire, working paper, November 1984.
j. Besoins en Mobilier Scolaire.
k.  Technical and Vocationa  Education - Part I-III, with 7 appendices,
working paper, October 1984.
(Appendix 5 deals with public administration and accountant
training).
1. Project Implementation Unit, draft working paper, November 1984.
6. PPF Supported Studies
a. Encuete sur enfants -surages' de lecole primaire rural, terms of
reference.
b.  Etude portant sur le renforcement administratif de 1'IPN, Price
Waterhouse, February 1984.
c. Etude relative de la production et distribution de manuels scolaires
dans le cadre de la reforme, Bernard Dubreuil, July 1984.



U11..._                                                                  _                                    r m_
o .I.                                     4 .-t-.----. 
"   ,4......................................... .....                                                 ... ................   ... .  ................... ..
.  ...                    . ...........
X~~~~~~~~~. .  ................                         ..    .. .....                                              ..f.....-----.....9-. [
lij ij  .-.. -.-l.tl 1-- ----gl.-. .-- . l.........
Ii-6666 -                                                                                  -   *gj--  
.. ...    .. ..   . . .. .. ..                    - -- -- - -        -     - -- --                  I   ......j .-- -- -
...........I                                                                    ...-...........                          -
.........,  ...   ....... .........
I~~ a- =   .    = = .                            a   a- =                                                     = .I.
............  .... .....   ......  . ... .............. .. .........                 .... ..                   ... ....   ... .. 
I I                                                                   _ _ _ _ __... . ... . . .. . . .. . ... . .._.. .. .. ..._.. . .   . . .   .. .. .  ...    . ..   .. .. ... .. .  . .. ...   . .



HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Ministry of Education
Organizationol Structure
lntermkm                                                                            |     oroaiation and
Allah Secvke    __.                                                                        Method  SM
Genrl Doraute
L gd Atai                                                                                   cOldb 
SeNvke       l.                                                                              ,           
Dkoctorate                                      Dkoct                                    Dk~~~~~~~~~~~Diucotteofrcarate
Reglonal Direcorae                             Regional Dkectorafe                      R |eigo Dnacorate ie                            W cDotota|e
Nord           ll                               Tranwescil    |ug                                                                    Sud.l
Ibn tlon      Ibn etb ln                   '                                        ption                                                      Ing,dIo
Nord   N. Eodt                                                                 Meto Aa TTd TAr T                                 T
sclxSho                                                col                         col          scho         Scot                 scxX
Wald Bo*- 26W



PIU Orpenization chart
Consultative Council
CuprvisWonk o                                           Independentl
SCuviso  0.. _                                        Financial Inspector
LjDirector Gonrl         l
Directors Councll
|                      . 
rSchool              Superiiao ot   | hitorias oX                       F                                      Fe,  omnel; 
rro3act      C4qplat*4                  Procuramat            Accounting        Materials
_ _ _  __   . _     Projets.
Basic Education
- Voc./Tach. Train,
- Podagogic
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



-75 -
CHART 4
3 --         1[-i, X 
~f  _x        _ l _____  ___   ___1-____        __
II       iEILr  
Ii   i II 1 Tl
I  I  iIiiIj  iI=i 111111i
us  _                  _          _         _    _
or            ------------  -  -----_----------- _



732;0                               7700
-oTr DE-
_ - --. ,  E           X 4-e                                f I-r
-r30                                                                                                                      ,
HAITn
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING
PROJECT
C-.
13  POLMYVALEN T        CMNIMG CENTERS
SATELLITE CENT R
Q   INf AMCO 4 TECHICAW-L TRINING CENTER
ROA" NEWRK
AWIHALT
GRAVEL
lmAT
-       -BDEPARTMEWT BONARIES
- .- INTRTERNATONAL BOUNDAIES
RIVERS                                   _            10    20    30
O5b..~    JEREMIE
i C    i~~       ~                  C <    - iIi_
de NiPoM
1t3o A.,. 
5   aJrf  4-AN S f
--i___si3-,-
rlgrQt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d A so  ;
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



IBRD 18650R
72'M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~70
~~~~-  '~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~20'D0
~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~ ~  n
;PtONT-DE PAIX
) ~ ~~~~~~ \ ,'_- j
\__ Pdl               O       Aal du Nonl/9d,4 ? 
0.
~~vo           _^TeneGO._ r_(               "o                                            -Nv           M      ,  
%-  Er.b.r &-. hI.  
-  Oa           3 -    j*r.     
I%\          t               I;'
St  WC
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I ~ rA                          __              t   t                  Cefco-lodSEv 
! v.,,s,, .. h - | . :; ~~~~~~~~~~~Botv
z
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -de B A>R..W  de                                                          * 
L                    wi- -Vill.             P9                                    I11,30-~~~~~~~~0
X    (              r---          {~~~~~~~~~.-
A-                 Bod        O-< 
JACE    _     )    5     a=            sU   - M' -   '
s-'. Ffi3                                               W
--                                                                                                                                   'N  isoAa    
m ffpf or Po VANWBNW WW ow          C-4                             MARC 1O985V-
tt^                 }   t                                    __ t-------o                                  St~t  / zt
t>_ > = z F.ll. A s. J,l DZoo 7 
_Xs s w___- ~~~~~~~~~~MA CH a@-Js 1985 E



