Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C,e An--Y2- 495>
Report No. P-3957-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF
SDR 10.4 MILLION (US$ 10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
April 12, 1985
i lTis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dsank authoriation.
a



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
US$0.20 = G 1
US$1 = G 5
Since 1919 the Gourde has been pegged to the U.S. Dollar at the rate of G 5 =
US$1.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
km = kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
m = meter (I m = 3.28 feet)
i2 = 10.76 ft2
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACADE2IC TEAR
October 1 - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGCED     -  Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
IDB       -  Inter-American Develoment Bank
INFP      -  National Institute for Vocational Training
IPSi      -  National Pedagogical Iisititute
MEN       -  Ministry of Education
MinSoc    -  '.tinistry of Social Affairs and Labor
PIU       -  Projet Implementation Unit
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
USAID     -  United States Agency for Interniational Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Haiti
Beneficiaries:     The Ministries of Education aad of the Presidency.
Amount:             SDR 10.4 million (US$10 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA terms.
Co-Financing:      Swiss Government, SF 15 million grant (about US$6
million equivalent).
Project            The credit would help finance the Government's education
Description:       reform program (grades 1-10), by continuing with basic
education reform, initiating a reform of the
vocational/technical training system and strengthening
the education sector management. In addition, a
public administration inservice training program
would be started.
Risks:             Private sector participation is essential for achieving
full coverage of the reform; Government contributions
for recurrent and investment budgets may not be
forthcoming in a timely fashion or sufficient amounts;
sustained investments are needed in the sector to ensure
implementation of full reform and realize benefits from
the investment under this and previous projects.
These risks would be minimized through provision of
incentives to and improvement of coordination with the
private sector; inclusion of all recurrent and
investment expenditures in the project to facilitate the
Government's budgetary procedures; and through
semi-annual budget reviews and a dialogue on medium term
requirements.
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislmd without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Estimated Costs: a/                                      Local   Foreign   Total
---   US$ million---
Basic Education                     8.1      3.4      11.5
Experimentation Vocational/         1.1       1.7      2.8
Technical Education
Education Sector Management         0.8       1.3      2.1             c
Public Administration               0.7      0.9       1.7
Project Pr..paration                1.5      0.7       2.2
and Administration
Baseline Costs                   12.3      8.0      20.4
Physical Contingencies              0.2      0.4       0.6
Price Contingencies                 0.6      0.7       1.3
Total                            13.2      9.1      22.3
Financing Plan:                      Local        Foreign         Total
-         US$ million------
Government      5.4           0.9            b.3
IDA            4.3           5.7           10.0
Switzerland    3.5           2.5            6.0
13.2          9.1           22.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                            -----… US$ million---…----
FY86     FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual              2.3       2.3     2.4      2.0     1.0
Cumulative          2.3      4.6      7.0      9.0    10.0
Rate of Return:       n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5395-HA, dated April 10, 1985
Map:                  No. IBRD 18650R
a/ Differences due to rounding. Taxes are not included.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF MIE PRESIDEINT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMT CREDIT
OF SDR 10.4 MILLION (US$10 KILLION EQUIVALENT) TO 72E
REUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A FOURTH ., CATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 10.4 million (US$10 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a Fourth Education and
Training Project. The Swiss Government would provide a grant of SF 15
million (USS6 million equivalent) for the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last *Economic Memorandum on Raiti-  (No. 3931-HA) distributed
to the Executive Di ectors was dated May 25, 1982. A brief report was also
circulated to the members of the Haitian Subgroup of the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development in February 1984. This Part reflects the
findings of a January 1985 mission. A new economic memorandum will be
distributed shortly. Relevant social and economic data are presented in
Annex 1.
3.        Haiti occupies the western and most ruggedly mountainous third of
the island of Hispaniola. It was the second independent state (1804) in the
Western Hemisphere. It is also the poorest, with a per capita GNP of US$320
in 1983. Four fifths of the population of 5.2 million live in the rural
areas. Since the early 1970s, Haiti has received an increasing flow of
development assistance from both multilateral and bilateral donors. It is a
member of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED)
chaired by the World Bank since 1977.
4.        The economy has changed significantly in recent decades.  Output
and employment have shifted toward urban, non-agricultural activity.
Agriculture now accounts for only one third of GDP, compared to one half in
the early 1950s, and its share in total exports has fallen from 90% to 43%.
The total population is growing at 1.4% per annum. Employment in agriculture
has declined. That in other sectors has grown rapidly, but not enough to
absorb all those leaving rural Haiti.  As a result, some 25,000 Haitians
(0.5 of the population) leave their native country each year to seek work in
North America and the Dominican Republic. The propensities to invest, export
and import have all risen markedly in the last fifteen years. Trade is now
equivalent to 66% of GDP and investment to 16%, compared to 42% and 7%,
respectively, in the mid-195Us. While consumption has not increased much in
real terms, its composition is today very differeut, with greater reliance on
imported goods, especially foodstuffs, and on public goods and services, like
electricity, education and health.



-2-
5.        Public investment during the 1970s has paid off.  There is now a
basic economic infrastructure (highways, ports, airport, electricity,
telecommunications) where fifteen years ago there was scarcely a paved road.
Substantial investments in health and education since 1970 have also yielded
positive returns: the infant mortality rate fell by 20% and the proportion of
children in primary school increased by 30%.
6.        Yet the pace of Haiti's economic growth and development has been
slow compared to its potential. Real per capita incomes, having fallen
during the 1960s, improved modestly during the 1970s and are now about 15%
higher than in 1970. By the late 1970s, both GDP and labor productivity were
growing at respectable rates of 5 and 4.6% respectively. Since FY80,
however, the average rate of real GDP growth has been minus 0.9%. Real GDP
per capita in FY84 was 9% below its FY80 level. The decline reflects two
factors. First, agricultural output and productivity have continued their
long stagnation and, secondly, labor productivity outside agriculture has
also fallen after an average annual increase of 4.4% during FY76-80.
7.        Since about 1980, the growth of output and productivity has been
too slow to create enough jobs and to generate enough resources to meet
minimum needs more adequately. This stagnation reflects the intersection of
three vicious circles --in agriculture, industry and the State.
8.        Most peasants live on steep hillsides and are caught in a
particularly vicious circle. Their cash needs are high compared to their low
incomes, and the latter are declining as population pressure on farm land
increases. To counter their falling purchasing power, peasants plant and
sell more crops at the expense of their own subsistence, overexploiting the
cultivated hillside areas. This worsens malnutrition and erosion. Incomes
are so low, and the cash crisis so severe, that there is virtually no peasant
savings or investment. Some price, fiscal and trade policies worsen this,
such as an export tax on coffee. The crisis on the hillsides has further
diverted attention from zones with higher production pot_ntial, especially
the irrigable plains. As a result, the overall productivity of agriculture
has not kept pace with population growth. Output is stagnating and
agricultural exports are declining.
9.        This vicious circle in agriculture has slowly and inexorably
tightened for thirty years; that in industry, by contrast, is much more
recent. Manufacturing output grew at a very rapid 10% per year in real terms
throughout the 1970s. However, it has since declined sharply, in part
because of the global recession of FY81-83 but more fundamentally because
protection has outlasted its usefulness.
10.       Protection afforded by import quotas and tariffs enabled many new
import substitution industries to start up and grow in the early 1970s.
Since the turn of the decade, however, they have exhausted the initial
advantage that protection provided and now suffer from its anti-export bias.
High production costs make much of Haitian industry uncompetitive
internationally, precluding expansion through exporting or selling to other
exporting industries. These circumstances have forced the Government to
attempt to stimulate industrial growth with tax and tariff exemptions for



investors and exporters. Despite this, import substitution industries have
not expanded at all in recent years.
11.       In contrast to the stagnation of inner-oriented domestic industry,
preferential United States trade regimes, including most recently the
Caribbean Basin Initiative have resulted in the successful establishment of
what is today the fastest growing assembly industry in the Caribbean Basin.
It expanded even during the global recession and is now moving strongly ahead
with the United States recovery. Principal products are clothing, electronic
and electrical goods, and sporting equipment. Dynamic as it is, this
*          subsector has been slow to integrate itself with the Haitian economy.  The
major bottleneck to its continued expansion is the supply of well trained
technicians, supervisors and middle managers.
12.       The third vicious circle that impedes economic growth is that of
the State itself. This circle is also relatively new; it is only since FY80
that fiscal discipline relaxed. Despite significant recent changes in taxes
and tax administration, revenues have exhibited little buoyancy. Current
revenues remain around 10% of CDP, inadequate to meet growing current
expenditures and the needs of the public development program. Public
savings, which averaged over 5% of GDP in the late 1970s, have since fallen
to about 1.2% and indeed have only been positive because of the growth of the
public enterprises' operating surplus, now equivalent to 3% of GDP.
13.       The public investment program has expanded steadily and now
represents about 10% of GDP, and 60% of total investment. Its composition
has changed also, from an original concentration on economic infrastructure
to include the social sectors and also direct Government ownership of five
relatively inefficient major industrial enterprises. The former has improved
health and education but consequential social expenditures represent a major
source of pressure on the current budget of the State. The latter has
involved a growing burden for the economy.
14.       Since FY80, Haiti has also been in the throes of financial and
economic disequilibrium, caused by the three vicious circles, the openness of
the small Haitian economy, and the repeated failure to adjust public
expenditure to the reality of public receipts, first in FY81-82 and again in
FY84. A poor crop and low world prices in FY81 depressed coffee exports and
Treasury revenues from the coffee export tax to about one third their
exceptional FY80 levels. Yet public spending and imports increased; the
overall public sector deficit rose to 13% of GDP and the resource gap to
19%.  A major financial crisis arose; the Government responded in mid-FY82
with a 15-month stabilization program, supported by an IMF Standby Agreement
of SDR 34.5 million, that was followed successfully. A new two year program,
supported by an IMF Standby of SDR 60 million, was adopted at the be±ginning
of FY84. It has not been as successful, however. Despite a relative
economic recovery in FY84 with real GDP growing at 2.6%, current Treasury
revenue was lower than anticipated and public expenditure higher, the latter
because of extrabudgetary spending. The overall public sector deficit for
FY84 was still high at 9% of GDP and the resource gap declined only slightly
to 12%. The authorities were thus unable to meet the agreed IMF program
targets and the program is now in abeyance.



- 4 -
15.       The growing public sector deficit has been financed by a slightly
increased flow of grants from external donors and by increasing resort to
both domestic and external borrowing. Domestic financing came from the
Central Bank and was a direct cause of monetary expansion. Currency and
demand deposits (M1) grew at 16% per year during FY80-82, fell to only 2% in
FY83 with the stabilization program, but rose again by 19% in FY84. Domestic
credit from the banking system increased by 67% during FY80-84, almost all
from the Central Bank to finance the public sector. Even with a drop in
credit to the private sector, total credit expansion exceeded the domestic
resources of the banking system so that international reserves fell US$80
million over the period, being deeply negative at minus US$51 million by
end-FY84.
16.       Exports are dominated by coffee and light manufactures.  Coffee
receipts have varied with the coffee production cycle, the weather, and
relative domestic and international prices. As noted, coffee exports fell
sharply in FY81. They have since recovered slightly, but coffee's share in
total exports has never excneded 2B% since FY81, compared to 42% in FY80.
Exports of light manufactures have doubled since FY80, growing even
throughout the U.S. recession at an average rate of 20%, with very strong
performances in FY80 and FY84, the latter in response to the U.S. recovery.
There have been no mineral export earnings since the FY82 closure of the
bauxite mine. Tourism earnings have also declined, initially because of the
global recession, and more recently because of image problems associated with
the AIDS disease. Workers' remittances from Canada and the United States
have dropped since their FY81 peak, and there has been only a modest increase
in official grants from external aid donors. Imports rose enormously in
FY80, following the pattern of exports and domestic expenditures, and partly
due to a poor grain harvest. They continued to grow in FY81, due to a
continued expansion of domestic demand. Restraints on domestic demand under
the stabilization program led imports to fall in FY82; they have since
expanded again at about 5% per year. The net impact of these changes in
exports and imports has been a current account deficit around US$100 million
annually since FY83, when it was reduced as a result of the initial
stabilization program.
17.       External aid grants have averaged about US$70 million per year
since FY80 and concessional loans about US$67 million. Over the four-year
period, Haiti has also borrowed US$87 million from commercial sources. These
loans caused an increase in the public debt service ratio from 6.7% in FY80
to 8.7% in FY81. Since then, however, the public debt service ratio has
declined to around 5% of exports of goods and non-factor services.
18.       The recent economic mission estimates that Haiti's economic
potential is still untapped. GDP could achieve a reasonable real annual
growth rate of between 3% and 4%, and possibly higher, during the rest of
this decade. This could result from concentrating on the irrigable and
rainfed zones with high productive potential to encourage agricultrual output
and exports; adapting the industrial incentive structure to ceduce the
anti-export bias and encourage manufacturing growth; and continuing to
improve Treasury revenues while increasing the efficiency of public
expenditures. These steps could only succeed, however, if the Government



- 5 -
undertakes a stabilization program that would increase public savlngs and
rebuild international reserves.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       Since 1956, the year the Bank Group began its operations in Haiti,
it has extended one loan and 21 credits totalling US$318.2 million equivalent
*         and IFC has made one investment (US$1.5 million) for an integrated poultry
project. As of March 31, 1985, the total of credits outstanding was
US$231.9 million, of which US$72.9 million were undisbursed. Annex II
includes a summary statement of Bank Group operations in Haiti as of March
31, 1985. The Association has financed six transport projects mainly serving
the Northern region; four power projects helping to increase the country's
electricity generation and distribution capacity; three education projects
emphasizing primary school construction and qualitative improvements at the
primary level; one water supply project for provincial towns; two rural
development projects in the Northern region; one agricultural rehabilitation
project designed to help compensate damages caused by a severe hurricane; one
port development project improving the international port facilities of
Port-au-Prince and small coastal port installations all around the country;
one industrial credit facility; one pilot forestry project; and an urban
development project, including sites and services schemes in three cities and
the upgrading of the Port-au-Prince central market.
20.       Overall, project implementation and disbursement performance are
satisfactory. However, on several occasions, lack of counterpart funds has
delayed disbursements. The establishment of working funds in recent projects
has brought improvement in this respect. Nevertheless, the Association is
carefully monitoring the absorptive capacity of the country for externally
assisted development investments. The Government of Haiti has requested the
major external aid agencies to finance temporarily a larger share of the
local costs of projects. Should the major agencies agree to the Haitian
request, a larger number of high priority projects could be continued without
delays or reductions, or started as planned.
21.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in Haiti.  Among
the most important are the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), the French Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW),
and the technical assistance agencies of the Federal Republic of Germany and
France.
22.       IDB maintains a diverse program in Haiti both regionally and
sectorally. In addition to transportation, agriculture and energy, projects
in health, education, industry, urban improvement, and water supply are now
being implemented or planned. The USAID program is largely implemented in
collaboration with private volunteer groups and is concentrating on



agricultural production, improving rural infrastructure, conservation and
restoration of natural resources, health care and the strengthening of public
and private development institutions. The sale of foodstuffs to the
Government, supported with long term, low interest credits, is also
important. CIDA is committed to supporting the institutional development of
public and private organizations within Haiti. This objective is reflected
in training and technical assistance projects now underway with the
Ministries of Education and Agriculture and the National Institute of
Administration.
23.       Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for urban                       a
development in Port-au-Prince, for a rural development project in the
Gonaives Plain, and for power sector development all over the country.
Together with France, Germany has been providing substantial technical
assistance for the First and the Second IDA Rural Development Projects in the
Northern region. Likewise, the co-financing of the IDA's Port-au-Prince
water supply project is included in the German program. France has financed
road construction and currently sponsors two integrated rural development
projects, educational planning, and research, a multitude of training
programs, a maritime lighting and airport resurfacing projects. France also
is financing components of IDA's Third Power, Fourth Power, and a pilot
Forestry Development projects.
IDA Strategy
24.       During the past decade the Bank Group lending has become involved
in all the major sectors of the Haitian economy with the exception of health
and tourism. However, a recent analysis of past performance shows that the
Haitian economy has grown well below its potential and so failed to create
enough jobs for all those willing and able to work. A number of government
policies impeded growth, particularly by providing inappropriate incentives
to private enterprises in agriculture and in industry and by scattering
scarce resources over too wide a range of development problems. Courageous
policy changes will be required in order to direct the economy onto a
sustainable growth path. Aid strategy in Haiti, including that of the
Association should be linked to these challenges.
25.       Subject to forthcoming discussion with the Government of the
January 1985 economic mission's conclusions and subsequently with major
donors within the framework of CGCED, it is expected that IDA strategy would
be adjusted to emphasize: (a) rapid expansion of output, employment, and
exports in agriculture and in industry; (b) the elimination of structural
distortions in these sectors, and (c) the improvement in manpower quality and
in institutions responsible for the economic and financial management of the
country. In line with this focus, policy based lending operations may
possibly be introduced and co-financing with other lenders of such operation
as well as of other more traditional investments, would be increased.
26.       The proposed Fourth Education and Training Project is fully
consistent with this approach. By strengthening basic education and
technical training through sectoral reforms, the project would help to
eliminate one of the major bottlenecks to the modernization of agriculture



and the development of local industries: the lack of a trained workforce.
The Transport VII, Port-au-Prince Water Supply and Technical Assistance
Projects presently under preparation, are also expected to be part of the new
strategy.
27.       IDA's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and outstanding came
to 30% as of September 30, 1984. This is high only because grants constitute
a very large share of the external assistance Haiti has received. The IDA's
share of external public debt service was about 7% in 1984.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
28.       Haiti's one abundant resource, human resources, is ill-developed.
The majority of the population lives in absolute poverty and adult literacy
is around 23%, one of the lowest in the world. The most promising source of
future growth for the Haitian economy, at least in the short term, is
industrial exports. This requires not only basic education but an
appropriate level of vocational training. Even for the medium term, only a
better trained workforce can modernize and increase agricultural production.
Recognizing these needs, the Government has formulated a program for the
comprehensive revitalization of the whole education system both in
organizational and pedagogical terms.
29.       General education in Haiti had a late start.  Traditionally,
education had been largely an ecclesiastical function and directed to
developing urban elite. French pedagogical values and methods still dominate
the education system and are particularly visible at the secondary level. In
fact, the language used for education is French, although the majority of the
people (80%) speaks Creole. During the 1920's, under the influence of the
United States a considerable number of schools for peasants were developed
and later integrated into the public primary education system. In more
recent years, the principal benchmark in educational development has been the
establishment of the University of Haiti (1944); the submission of most
educational activities to the supervision of the Ministry of Education
(1978); and the commencement of the Educational Reform (1982). The public
education at all levels has never been free in Haiti: the parents pay
tuition, textbooks and obligatory uniforms. However, they have to pay
between 50% to 90% more per student for private education than for public
schools. In number of graduates and classrooms, the private sector continues
to play a very important role, accounting for 52% of primary and 79% of
secondary enrollments. It is faced with problems of quality and efficiency
similar to if not more serious than those encountered by the public sector.



- 8 -
30.       At present and, since the introduction of the education reform will
be a gradual process, during most of the current decade, the formal school
system will continue to comprise six years of primary and seven years of
secondary schooling leading to the baccalaureat certificate. Tertiary
education is offered at the State University with several faculties and
specialized institutions and the Higher Teacher Training College. In 1981,
of the total number of persons receiving some type of education, 85% was in
primary schools, 11Z in secondary and 4% in higher education. This situation
has remained unchanged for the past ten years.
Issues
31.       Access and Enrollments.  While Haiti nearly doubled enrollments at
all levels over the past 10 years, mostly through expansion in the private
sector, in 1983-84 only 53% of the primary school age population was able to
attend school. It is estimated that at least 9,700 additional classrooms are
required to accommodate every child that should be enrolled, and 8,400 need
to be located in rural areas. In addition, socioeconomic factors such as
reliance on child labor and cost of education to families prevent enrollments
from increasing rapidly. In urban areas these constraints are not as
pressing and the Government could achieve adequate coverage by introducing
double shifts.
32.       Low Quality.  Quality constraints affect all public and private
rural schools. Private urban schools fare better. Private rural schools
(the majority of all the primary schools) are the worst. Public expenditure
is low (US$30 per student compared to US$50-80 per student in Latin America)
and 95% is for teacher salaries. Yet this translates into salaries so low
that the education system fails to recruit or retain fully qualified teachers
(81% of the teachers have less than eight years of schooling). Parents are
expected to provide textbooks for their children; because many cannot afford
to do so, only one out of every four rural children attending school has
access to a textbook. Finally, the curriculum is ill-adapted and is taught
in French, a language which only Z0% of the Haitian people speak.
33.       Low Efficiency.  The constraints in access and quality impair
educational efficiency. Only 52% of the urban children who enroll, and 34%
of the rural children, complete grade 4. Repetition rates are also high,
hovering around 25%. The consequence of this low efficiency is wastage of
scarce resources. On average, it takes 20 studentyears to produce one grade
6 graduate in rural areas (15 studentyears in urban areas). However, urban
private schools are nearly three times as efficient, producing one grade 6
graduate after seven studentyears, whereas rural private schools are the
least efficient.
34.       Public Versus Private Sector.  Due to the large role the private
sector plays in education, the Government has difficulty promoting nationwide
educational reforms and assuring standardization and quality in the
curriculum. At the primary level, the private sector provides 70% of all



- 9 -
schools and 47Z of all student places. The Government is finding it
increasingly difficult to provide funds to cover investment and recurrent
costs for the expansion of the public education system; the issue is to
strengthen Government's jurisdiction over private schools so that it can
assure the overall quality of education without affecting the incentive of
the private sector to increase their involvement.
35.       Vocational/Technical Education.  There are nine lower secondary and
four upper secondary vocational centers in Haiti operated by the Ministry of
Education (MEN), with an annual output of 398 students. In addition, the
E        Ministry of Social Affairs (MinSoc) operates six training centers, offering
inservice training programs; around 560 people participated in 1983-84.
Vocational and technical education suffers from a serious lack of
coordination and standardization of training programs and relevance to the
industrial and informal sectors.
36.       The National Institute for Vocational Training (INFP), responsible
for coordination and quality of these programs, has no jurisdiction over the
schools and therefore, negligible influence. While the inservice training
for instructors and the on-the-job training for workers provided by INFP have
been satisfactory, training programs of lower and upper secondary centers
under MEN and MinSoc have been long and academic, lacking hands-on experience
in well-equipped workshops. Unit costs are high, efficiency is low, and
quality of graduates unsatisfactory.
Government Strategy
37.       Education Reform.  To deal with these issues in primary and
vocational/technical education, the Government introduced a comprehensive
reform of the education sector in 1982 that calls for gradually restructuring
the entire system and improving quality, thereby making it more efficient.
The reform started with grade 1 in 1982, and in 1983-84, 40% of the grade 1
children in public and private schools were being taught by reform methods.
During the first phase (1982-85), a new structure of a 3 cycle system for
basic education (4-3-3 years, 10 years in total) was introduced to achieve
minimum literacy in four years. To promote quick assimilation, Creole was
adopted as language of instruction in the first cycle (grades 1-4) instead of
French. The new and practical curricula were developed, tested and are being
used for grades 1, 2 and 3, and are now being tested for grades 4, 5 and 6.
Textbooks and teaching aids in Creole were prepared, tested, and printed.
Through teacher training programs, teachers were trained to change the method
of instruction from one requiring passive memorization to one which
encourages active student involvement. Automatic promotion was introduced
between certain grades, to increase efficiency. The student learning
environment was upgraded through adequate provision of furniture, teaching
aids and textbooks. A Teacher Charter was promulgated to establish a
professional accreditation system, appropriate salary levels and career
prospects. Finally, the inspector corps was reorganized to assist teachers
with pedagogical support and evaluation.
38.       During the second phase of the reform (1985-88) the following
objectives would be sought for basic education: (a) to continue introducing



- 10 -
the new structure and programs in grades 4 - 6, and testing new curricula for
grades 5 - 9 -providing new textbooks, teaching aids, teacher training,
pedagogical support, and evaluation programs; (b) to strengthen the working
conditions of inspectors by providing them with transportation and office
equipment; and (c) to continue implementing the Teacher Charter including
increasing salaries and providing upgrading programs for underqualifled
teachers. In addition, the Government will (a) strengthen two major sector
institutions: the Ministry of Education, and the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN); (b) clarify the roles of MEN, IPN, and the Basic Education
Reform Committee established by MEN in 1984; and (c) incorporate the private
sector in the ongoing reform.  The Government must also make decisions on the                   0
following major issues: (a) in which grade to introduce French as the major
language of instruction; (b) by how much to increase the family share of
educational cost; (c) by when and how to include overage children who
represent 50Z of the school population.
39.       The Government has recently reorganized MEN, changing its personnel
and payroll procedures, and introducing an organizational structure more
relevant to the reform, such as the creation of a department to coordinate
private/public sector education. Moreover, it promulgated a decree
clarifying the respective roles of IPN and the Reform Committee, assigning
the Reform Committee the responsibility for monitoring the progress of reform
implementation and assigning IPN's Monitoring Unit, the responsibility for
monitoring and evaluating achievement in the classrooms. Finally, in order
to monitor the implementation carefully, the Government would (a) review
annually the progress achieved in carrying out the reforms under the Basic
Education Reform Law and Vocational/Technical Training Law and make
adjustments required in the reform implementation plan satisfactory to IDA,
before the beginning of each school year; (b) discuss with IDA all measures
to be undertaken in the private sector for the implementation of the reform;
and (c) conduct the first country-wide examination for grade seven in June
1987 to firmly establish the new standard for primary education (Section
5.02, and Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.       Vocational/Technical Training.  As part of the general reform of
t-~ education sector, the Government has decided to introduce new curricula
more adapted to the labor demands of Haitian economy at the semiskilled,
skilled worker, and technician levels and to reduce unit costs by introducing
a new structure which should improve the efficiency of the system. It has
also decided to strengthen the management and the role of INFP. Thus a law
on vocational/technical training has been promulgated defining INFP's
responsibilities which include full jurisdiction over the subsector, and the
roles and function of other institutions. The INFP's council was reinstated
to promote regular contacts with employees of informal and industrial
sectors, and to make training relevant to their needs. The existing system
of training was restructured introducing vocational training centers to
replace inefficient lower secondary vocational schools, and technical centers
to replace upper secondary vocational schools. In the vocational centers,
two types of programs would be offered: (a) a three year formal training
program for youths with seven years of basic education with direct access 'n
the labor market after each year and a possibility of following special
general education courses to enable reintegration in the academic third



- 11 -
cycle; and (b) nonEormal training courses f or youths and adults at all
levels. In the technical centers, formal education would be offered to those
who had 10 years of basic education, and inservice training provided for
technicians already in the labor market. Production methodologies and
entrepreneurial aspects have been incorporated and contacts made with local
organizations such as the Haitian Industrial Development Fund to organize a
credit system for course graduates. Finally, the Government is expected to
identify ways for the private sector to gradually improve and expand their
contribution to vocational training.
41.       Government Allocations.  Despite its commitment to the reform,
Government allocations for the education sector have oscillated around 14-15%
of the Government budget during the past nine years. In 1981-82, the share
of GDP going to education represented only 1.9%. Both indicators are low
compared with other countries having comparable income levels. The recent
effort to finance the Teacher Charter is commendable, but it is doubtful that
the Government can continue to fund the total incremental salaries in the
present economic crisis without assistance from aid agencies. The actions
taken under the reform should increase quality and efficiency, thereby
reducing wastage of resources; MEN's decision to arrest the growth of the
public primary education system in order to finance the Teacher Charter is an
example. The Government agreed upon the amount of funds it would provide to
satisfy the recurrent expenditure requirements of the project and a timetable
for their payments during the negotiations. However, MEN also needs to carry
out an indepth analysis of its budget allocation practices and the process of
selecting priorities. It needs to formulate a long term action plan to
reduce expenditures in areas of lesser priority. During the second phase of
the reform, with the assistance of IDA, MEN intends to take these steps
(paras. 43 and 44). Moreover, as indicated above (para. 40), MEN will
examine ways to increase private sector contributions, especially in the
vocational/techrical field. IDA will review this process during supervision
and sector missions in FY86 in order to arrive at an acceptable proposal by
October 1986.
IDA's Role
42.       Together with the other major donors and UN agencies, IDA
has assisted the Government to prepare and implement the general education
reform for almost a decade. Thus under the first project (Cr. 618-HA, US$5.5
million approved in 1976 and closed in December 1981), IDA helped to improve
teacher training and to draft an Organic Law to reorganize MEN in addition to
improving access for the urban and rural primary schools.3/ The project
suffered about a year's delay due to lack of counterpart funds and
difficulties in constructing widely dispersed rural schools. Under the
second project (Cr. 770-HA, US$10 million, approved in February 1978 and
closed in December 1984) (a) Creole was selected as the language of
instruction for primary education; (b) urban and rural primary school
systems, which were under the jurisdiction of two different ministries, MEN
and Ministry of Agriculture, were integrated and placed under MEN; (c) the
Organic Law of MEN was promulgated; and (d) the Teacher Charter was drafted.
In fact the project established the basis of the current reform (i.e.
3/ Audit Report No. 4605 of June 30, 1983.



- i2 -
curriculum development, teacher accreditation, production of new textbooks).
The project also succeeded in improving access, although it took time to
complete the construction component, especially ti.at of the vocational/
technical schools because of insufficient counterpart funds (a year's
delay). The third project (Cr. 1305-HA, US$9 million, approved in November
1982) continues to support the education reform by financing curriculum
development, teacher training, and pedagogical support and evaluation. The
project implementation is one year behind schedule. The Government took
longer time than expected to take major decisions on educational reform and
the slow release of counterpart funds prevented the construction component
from starting. Recently, the Government, with the agreement of IDA, has
decided to stop the expansion of public basic education in favor of the
quality improvement. Therefore, the construction component is expected to be
reduced in scope. Meanwhile, the Government is providing all required
counterpart funds satisfactorily.
43.       In addition to the country's serious fiscal situation, the major
reasons for the delay in provision of Government contributions are (a) the
Government's inability to properly plan for development and recurrent
budgets and (b) cumbersome procedures for disbursing the funds, both
available and budgeted. During negotiations, the Government has provided
assurances that it will annually review with IDA (a) the budget requirements
and proposals (March) and the adequacy of development funds provided for the
education sector (September); and (b) the adequacy of the recurrent funds
provided for carrying out the project (Sections 5.03 and 5.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
44.       The government's present program of reform is sound.  Since 1978,
when it embarked on the long term process to improve the quality and access
to education, it has made major strides. The Canadian and French
Governments, and UN agencies have all contributed to this effort. However,
IDA has been the major donor in this 20 year endeavor, and is expected to
continue playing that role over the medium term. By December 31, 1986, the
Government would discuss with IDA the 1987-91 Education Sector Investment
Plan to ensure the availability of financing for the continuation of the
educational reform (Section 5.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Public Administration
45.       The weakness of the central administration has been identified as a
major constraint to improving allocation and use of the country's resources.
In 1982, the Government passed a series of laws to (a) establish uniform
regulations for civil service, and salaries and pensions for civil servants;
(b) provide career development and job security; and (c) eliminate the
practice of public servants holding multiple positions. A National
Commission for Public Administration and Civil Service was established under
the Presidency to supervise the implementation. Part of this reform has
begun to be introduced in the Ministries of Health and Education (para. 39),
with the help of USAID and IDA, respectively. The Canadian Government
provided assistance to strengthen the Natinnal Institute for Management
Administration and Higher International Studies. For in service training,
the Government created a Public Administration Center under the National
Commission to amalgamate existing institutes operated by individual
ministries and coordinate all inservice public administration training.



- 13 -
46.       The civil service reform is a formidable undertaking and will take
years to complete. Under a Technical Assistance Project under preparation,
IDA is expected to review the status of the reform and if possible assist the
Government in devising a practical program of action which would enable the
continuation of the reform. Meanwhile, the proposed education project would
provide urgently required support for the Public Administration Center and
finance inservice training in financial management and accounting.
PART IV. - THE PROJECT
47.       Appraisal of the project took place in March 1984 and, due to a
reduction in scope dictated by a reduction in the availability of IDA funds,
a post-appraisal mission reviewed the project in September 1984. These
missions were preceded by an identification/sector mission in October 1983
and a preparation mission in December 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from March 21 to 25, 1985, and the Haitian delegation was
led by Mr. Gerard Dorcely, the Minister of Education. The staff appraisal
report is being circulated separately. Annex III contains supplementary
project data.
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The proposed project would support (a) the second phase of the
education reform, including vocational/technical training and (b) training
in public administration by providing financing for:
(i) MEN's incremental salary bill for basic education staff:
inspectors, teachers, and directors of schools (a total of some
8,400 persons) and salaries for 55 staff of IPN and INFP (US$5.6
million);
(ii) equipment and furniture for the IPN, INFP, Public Administration
Center, 200 primary schools, and vehicles for inspectors, MEN, and
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (US$3.3 million);
(iii)  civil works for the rehabilitation of vocational/technical schools,
and INFP, and construction of t.Le fourth floor of the National
Institute for Management Administration to house the Public
Administration Center (US$1.1 million);
(iv) 1,015,000 textbooks (US$2.8 million);
(v) technical assistance and consultancies--314 moaths of foreign
experts and 340 months of local experts for all institutions
involved in the project (US$3.4 million);
(vi) fellowships--213 months of study abroad for the staff of IPN,
technical schools, INFP, the Public Administration Center, MEN
(US$0.3 million)



- 14 -
(vii)  training programs for teachers, directors and inspectors (US$2.2
million);
(viii)  project administration (US$1.2 million); and
(ix) operational cost--maintenance of vehicles, gasoline, office
supplies, and per diem for the staff of IPN, and INFP on mission to
rural areas (US$2.3 million).
Detailed Features of Project Components
Implement the Basic Education Reform
49.       Improvement of Working Conditions.  To improve the working
conditions of inspectors and teachers, to enable them to work efficiently,
and to reduce staff turnover, 120 inspectors and 16 regional pedagogical
centers would be provided with office equipment, materials, vehicles, mules,
and funds to cover their operational and maintenance costs. Under the
Teacher Charter all 8,400 directors, inspectors, and teachers for basic
education (about 8,400) have received or will receive over the next four
years a salary increase in comparison with the 1983-84 situation. Given the
pivotal role of directors and teachers in the reform, and the present
economic crisis which prevents large increases in MEN's recurrent budget, IDA
would finance the incremental costs of the increasing salary bill for MEN
(due to wage increases, improved qualifications and hiring of teacher
training college graduates) on a decreasing scale. The Government has
provided assurances that it would finance 60X of the incremental salary bills
in 19B5-86, 75% in 1986-87, 80% in 1987-88 and 84% in 1988-89. The
Government would submit a statement at the end of each quarter, stating the
number of staff whose incremental salary would be eligible for project
financing.  Disbursements would be made for the numbers presented, or those
in Schedule 6, whichever is lower. (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement.)
50.       Qualitative Improvements.  Curricula would be developed for grades
5-9, and already tested curricula would be introduced in grades 4-6. The
project would finance local and international technical assistance. Because
objectives and detailed curricula for grades 5-7 and 8-10 are not yet known,
the Government would be requested to review with IDA detailed objectives by
cycle and grade annually as they are developed (Schedule 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
51.       The educational materials would be provided for all teachers and
students in public and private schools in the experimental phase (grades
4-9). About 700,000 textbooks and workbooks, and about 105,000 teacher
guides would be produced and distributed during project implementation.
After the experimetntation phase, the project would distribute 30,000 sets of
teacher guides. textbools and workbooks to teachers in public and private
sector reform classrooms, and about 180,000 sets of textbooks (at a ratio of
one book per four students) for classroom use by poor children. These
textbooks, workbooks and teacher guides would be distributed free of charge
and would not be marketed commercially (Section 3.07 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In addition, the project would finance technical
assistance, salaries, equipment and furniLure for IPN's didactic materials
unit.



- 15 -
52.       During project implementation, about 13,000 teachers for grades
1-10 and 1,200 directors from both the public and the private sector would bL
trained. Teachers would receive inservice training in the new curricula and
teaching methodologies. Those completing a sequence of training courses
would earn a teacher training college equivalency certificate, resulting in a
higher salary under the Teacher Charter. Directors would receive four weeks
of training in teaching methodology and in supervisory/management skills.
Courses would be given by qualified inspectors at regional centers. IPN
would supervise and provide inservice training for the inspectors. All
courses exist and are adjusted each summer based on the results of previous
experience. The project would finance salaries for IPN's training unit and
all training costs for public and rural private schools.
53.       The monitoring and evaluation unit of IPN is responsible for
(a) evaluation of the experimental program and (b) pedagogical evaluation of
internal and external factors influencing student achievement. These studies
were started under Cr. 1305-HA and are technically sound. The project would
finance all costs of the unit, and provide it with technical assistance and a
training program. The project would also provide furniture and equipment for
the equivalent of about 210 classrooms in the South East and Central
Provinces.
Introduce Vocational/Technical Training Reform
54.       To provide education and training opportunities for an increased
number of children, youths and adults, the project would assist the
Government to carry out the reform in five vocational training centers, one
to be remodelled and equipped under the project. If after two years of
project implementation the new structure and the curriculum are considered
satisfactory, then the new curriculum would be adopted by two additional
vocational centers which would be remodelled and equipped by the project. To
address the need for a limited number of well-trained technicians in the
industrial sector, the project would also assist the Government in improving
the quality of education provided in the four technical training centers,
each offering different specializations. The project would finance the
remodelling and equipping of workshops, technical assistance for curriculum
development, and scholarships for instructor upgrading.
55.       In principal, all training centers would operate in two shifts.
The first shift would be for the formal programs, while the second shift
-      would provide a variety of courses open to all interesLei individuals
regardless of age and educational background and adapted to the needs of
their working environments. MinSoc already offers such programs. Illiterate
youths and adults would have to follow a literacy course conducted by the
National Literacy and Community ActVon Office at the request of, and in
collaboration with, each center's personnel. As a first experiment, MinSoc
would offer afternaon adult training programs in the Carrefour center.
Strengthen Sector Management
56.       The project would strengthen MEN, IPN and INFP.  To improve MEN's
information system, the project would finance the purchase of a computer to



- 16 -
facilitate the compilation of a data base which integrates data on personnel
files, schoolmapping, payroll and training programs. MEN would also carry
out studies on its own policies, concerning (a) factors affecting teacher
motivation and turnover; (b) recurrent budget allocation practices, including
ways of reallocating expenditures by either MEN or parents to make free or
subsidized books more generally available; and (c) integration of overage
children in reform programs. To address the problems of inadequate
classrooms, school furniture and equipment, maintenance and repair, and
planning for school construction, the project would provide technical
assistance to MEN for organizing a School Construction Department, and for
carrying out a schoolmapping study and studies on construction norms and                    ''
community participation in school maintenance. Data from the schoolmapping
study would provide the basis for an inventory of public schools and their
physical status, and for a proposal on the extent to which double shifts can
be introduced in public schools. During negotiations, the G4overnment has
agreed on a schedule of execution for the studies, organization of the School
Construction Department and the introduction of double shifts in public
schools (Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The project
would finance IPN's three staff positions in training program management,
personnel management, planning and programming, and a position for a
statistician with computer skills.
57.       The project would remedel and equip some of INFP's facilities, and
provide INFP with technical assistance for management and organization, and
with fellowships to improve staff quality. Key administrative staff would
receive training in administration, recordkeeping, storage of supplies, etc.
A systematic program to determine training requirements and to carry out job
analysis would be set up. Supervision of training centers would be improved
through upgrading courses for 40 inspectors, center directors and chief
instructors, and by establishing a systematic supervision methodology.
Experimentation with new curricula for the vocational and technical training
centers would take place and INFP would train 240 instructors. In addition,
the project would assist INFP in carrying out the following pilot activities
and studies which could lead to regular programs: (a) a program for training
small entrepreneurs; (b) a study on training needs of women in the labor
force; (c) an audiovisual program to encourage the female population to
actively participate in vocational training programs (which were only
recently opened to them). In order to keep the trained instructors, the
Government has provided assurances that the salary scale for the
vocational/technical subsector staff would be revised by October 1985, and
would be put into effect in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to IDA.
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.)
Iprove Eublic Administration Training
58.       The project would assist in establishing an inservice training
center for public administration and improving the accountants' inservice
training pro ram. The project would finance the construction of this center
(about 600 m ) as the top floor of a new building of the National Institute
for Management Administration being constructed with CIDA financing. This
new building would also house a library for both institutions. The project
would also finance equipment for the center, including books, audiovisual
equipment and materials for the library. In addition, the project would
finance consultant services to determine training ueeds, to teach and to



- 17 -
train key staff, as well as fellowships for key staff. The center would
provide training courses of three to four mDnths duration for middle and
higher level staff, mostly in managerial and financial aspects.
59.       To upgrade the quality of accounting in the public administration,
the project would finance international technical assistance for the
accountant diploma courses at the National Institute for Management
Administration. The experts would provide instruction in those aspects for
which no Haitian experts are available at present, namely use of computers in
accounting, verification and accounting theory.
Project Execution
60.       Responsibility for project administration would rest with the
existing PIU which has successfully implemented Cr. 618-HA, Cr. 770-HA and is
carrying out Cr. 1305-HA. It has recently been reorganized and staffed in a
manner satisfactory to the Association. Under Cr. 1305-HA, the PIU is
directly responsible for implementation of the construction program; upon
completion of that project, it is expected that those functions and staff
would be transferred to the School Construction Department. This would
facilitate the development of a PIU which would be responsible for
coordination and mDnitoring of programs to be carried out by existing units
in different ministries. To improve coordination among these ministries, MEN
would organize meetings of the Consultative Council consisting of the
Ministers of Education, the Presidency, Planning and Finance. The PIU would
develop its action plan based on available Government funds and the annual
work programs which each agency would submit before July 15. This new
procedure would assist the Government in increasing efficiency and
accountability of its agencies. As a condition of effectiveness, the
Government would form the Council (Section 7.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).  The working arrangements between the Council and the PIU
have been agreed upon, during the negotiations. The PIU would be responsible
for preparing periodic progress reports on the quantitative and qualitative
aspects of the project. Reports would be sent on a semiannual basis to IDA,
the Council and all implementing agencies.
bl.       The project would finance staff and operational costs of the PIU
from July 1986 to July 1989. Before that date all costs, including the cost
of new staff, woul6 be financed under Cr. 1305-HA.  In addition, funds would
be made available to employ consultants (12 staffmonths) to assist in
monitoring and supervision. The costs of auditing the accounts of the
project unit and implementing agencies have also been included.
62.       Through utilization of a project preparation facility (PPF),
project preparation is at an advanced stage. Master furniture and equipment
lists were approved during appraisal for all components. Remodelling of
technical training schools would start in August 1985, for which all final
designs are under preparation. Preliminary designs and tender documents have
been prepared and bids have been invited in order to :onform with the
construction schedule established by che Government and CIDA for the National
Institute of Management Administration. Evaluation of the bids would take
place in March and construction would start about July 1985. Project



- 18 -
execution is expected to be completed in about five years (March 31, 1990)
and the proposed credit, closed by September 30, 1990. The main investments,
however, would be made during the three school years 1985-86 to 1987-88.
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements
63.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$22.3
million, net of taxes. These costs include the additional operational
expenditures to be financed by the ministries involved in the project. The
costs also include a PPF of USS500,000 approved in December 1983 and a second
tranche of US$420,000 approved in December 1984. The total foreign exchange
component is estimated at about US$9.1 million, or about 41% of total project
costs, net of taxes. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 10.4 million (US$10
million equivalent) on standard terms would finance about 62% of the foreign
costs and 45% of total costs. On the basis of the October 30, 1984
Co-financing Agreement between the Association and the Swiss Government, SF
15 million would finance 27% of total costs. The Swiss Government is
financing a share (58%) of the software of the project (consultant's
services, fellowships, training, studies, textbooks, workbooks, teachers'
guides, staff salaries and operating cost). As a condition of effectiveness
the Government would be requested to furnish satisfactory evidence that the
Swiss Contribution Agreement had been duly signed and ratified, and that all
conditions precedent to effectiveness of said agreement had been fulfilled.
(Section 7.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Expenditures
incurred prior to the signature of the Development Credit Agreement, and
after October 1, 1984, for the construction of the Public Administration
Center (para. 62 above), not exceeding US$0.1 million are proposed for
retroactive financing (Schedule 1, para. 3 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
64.       Cost estimates are expressed in March 1985 prices based on March
1984 prices and actual costs obtained under Credits 770-HA and 1305-HA. The
price contingencies (US$1.5 million) have been calculated based on the
following assumptions: (a) annual increases in local costs would be eight
percent, with the exception of services which would increase by two percent
annually; (b) annual increases of foreign costs would be eight percent in
1985, and nine percent thereafter, with the exception of technical assistance
which is assumed to increase by zero percent in 1985 and 1986, two percent in
1987 and three percent in 1988. These predictions for technical assistance
are based on the observation that there is fierce competition in the field at
the moment. The physical contingencies (US$0.6 million) have been estimated
at five percent for construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles and
materials; two percent for technical assistance, the project unit, salaries,
and training programs; one-percent for equipment operation and maintenance;
and zero percent for local staff salaries.
65.       The proposed credit and the joint co-financing from the Swiss
Government, are expected to be disbursed pari passu over a period of five
years. Experience with other projects has shown that budgetary constraints
and procedures limit the capacity of the Government to prefinance
expenditures to be reimbursed under IDA, and that the PIU sends many
applications for small amounts to maintain its cash flow. To alleviate these
problems and to accelerate disbursements, IDA and the Swiss Government would



- 19 -
establish revolving funds (Special Accounts) of US$0.45 million and US$0.3
million respectively. Simultaneously, the Government would establish a
revolving fund of US$0.l million by opening a Project Account in the same
bank for investment expenditures. (Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). IDA would commence recovery of the initial deposit when
the undisbursed credit amount plus any commitments to commercial banks has
reached the level of US$0.9 million. The Special Account and Project Account
shall be subject to specific audit each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Establishment of the Project Account and deposit of the Government's initial
contribution to the Project Account would be conditions of effectiveness
(Section 7.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.       The proposed credit would finance alone all but one category (see
(c) below) which the Swiss Government would finance jointly at a fixed ratio
IDA to Swiss, of 42:58 percent. The proposed credit and the Swiss Government
contribution would be disbursed as follows:
(a) civil works at 35% of total expenditures (US$300,000);
(b) furniture and equipment at 100% for foreign expenditures and 85Z
for local expenditures (US$2,000,000);
'c) technical assistance, professional fees, studies, fellowships,
consultancies, staff salaries, training courses, textbooks and
operational costs at 100% (US$3,650,000 and US$5,700,000
respactively);
(d)  Teacher Charter costs at declining rates of 80%, 50%, 30% and 10%
during years one to four of the project (US$500,000);
Ce) project preparation facility (US$920,000);
Cf) initial deposit for IDA Special Account (US$450,000);
(g) initial deposit for the Swiss Special Account (US$300,000); and
(h)  unallocated funds (US$2,180,000).
Procurement
67.       The procurement arrangements are the following:  contracts for
civil works for the Public Administration Center (US$100,000) would be on the
basis of LCB; for remodelling of seven existing vocational/technical training
centers (ranging from US$10,000 to US$91,000) on the basis of negotiations
with local qualified contractors or subcontractors with PIU supervision.
Contracts for furniture for primary schools (total US$400,000) would be
awarded on the basis of ICB; furniture for remodelled vocational/technical
schools would be procured by local shopping. Contracts for equipment and
vehicles (total US$2 million) would be grouped, when possible, in attractive
packages and would be awarded on the basis of ICB when exceeding US$50,000.
Local shopping would be used for textbook procurement. Mules would be



- 20 -
procured through direct contracting. Consultants would be employed in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Miscellaneous items not to exceed US$350,000
in aggregate would be procured on the basis of three price quotations. Prior
IDA review would be required for contracts over US$100,000. In the case of
ICB, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin equal to
the prevailing tariff or 15% of the CIF quotation of the competing supplier,
whichever is lower. The following table shows the procurement arrangements:
Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Project Category            ICB     LCB     Other      NA       Total Costs
Civil Works                        0.19      0.95                 1.14
(38%)    (38X)
Equipment/Vehicles         1.68             0.54                  2.42
(99%)             (85%)
Furniture                 0.43               0.27                 0.70
(99%)             (85%)
Vehicles                  0.60                                    0.60
(99%)
Textbooks                                    2.83                 2.83
(100%)
Technical Assistance,
Fellowships, Studies                       3.80                  3.80
(100%)               (100%)
Project Unit                                            1.18      1.18
(100%)
Training Courses                                        2.03      2.03
(100%)
Local Travel and                                        0.42      0.42
Subsiscence                                          (100%)
Staff Salaries                                          5.61      5.61
(24%)
Equipment Operation
Maintenance                                           0.82      0.82
(61%)
Consummable Materials,
Office Supplies                            0.24       1.14      1.38
(29%)     (29%)
Total      2.31    0.19        8.63     11.20    22.33
Benefits
68.       The project would help implement the education reform in basic and
vocational/technical education, improve education sector management, and
provide opportunities for training in public administration. This would



- 21 -
result in improvements in (a) the number of students entering basic
education, (b) the efficiency i.e. the number of years of investment needed
to produce grade 4 and grade 7 graduates, (c) the quality of education at the
basic, vocational and technical levels, and the chance for school leavers to
acquire meaningful skills and employment, (d) the quality of the work pool in
the labor market, and (e) the quality of Government employees'
skills, especially in the areas of finance and management.
Risks
a          69.        There are several risks associated with the project:
(a) the private sector may be reluctant to participate in the reform; (b) tile
Government contributions for both the investment and recurrent budget may not
be forthcoming in a timely fashion and in sufficient amounts; and (c) the
Government may not sustain the required expenditures (investment and
recurrent) over the medium and long term to ensure full implementation of the
full education reZorm. By strengthening the management of the key
institutions involved in the education sector, by clarifying their
jurisdiction over the private schools, by demonstrating the benefits cf the
reform through results achieved in the public sector, and by providing
incentives for the private sector to adoot the reform program (i.e. books and
teacher training programs) the Government would try to bring an increasing
number of private schools under the reform. The risk of shortfalls in funds
for investment and recurrent expenditures during the project implementation
period has been -Inimized by (a) facilitating Government's budgetary
procedures through inclusion of all investment and recurrent expenditure
requirements in project costs and (b) establishing semiannual reviews of the
budget. The sector's medium and long term financing requirements would be
discussed through intensive sectoral dialogue with the Government as well as
the other donors. IDA would assist the Government in making sure that these
requirements will be reflected in the fourth Five Year National Investment
Plan (1987-91) and in mobilizing additional resources from other donors.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Haiti and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately.  Special conditions are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that the
Government would (a) establish a Consultative Council; and (b) establish a
Project Account and deposit therein US$100,000 equivalent. Moreover, all
conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the Swiss grant except for
the effectiveness of IDA agreement must be fulfilled.



- 22 -
PART VI -    I  UD&I ON
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 12, 1985



- 23 -                                         ANNU I
TABLE 3A                                   Page 1 of 5
,A                      - SOCIAL NDIATS  DASTA SHcT
Al"1                                 BUERNE  101  (WEIGHTE  AVERAGES)p
HOST                (HOST RECK?? ESTIPATE) 
iu.OLb    i,o          sTDiATU      LAT. mnRICA  AR n      Ai HRCA s. 0r SAHAR
ANRA (sMWAD Sq. IN)
TOTAL                                27.8       27.8          27.8
AGRICULTURAL                         12.4       14.5          14.0
ef iSK CAP1tA (US$3                   100.0      110.0         300.0            2101.6                    1112.9
(KILOGRAMS OP OIL EqUIVALENT)       29.0       29.0          55.0             995.5                     529.0
lb               POJULATNE *1A8 YTAML SnTATSTICS
POP?uLATIOH.MID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)   3630.0    4235.0        5201.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)       15.6       19.8          25.1              66.5                      29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
lb                     ~~~~~~~~~~POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                     7.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                               14.4
POPULATION MOEWIPrim                                        1.8
POPUILATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                       130.8     152.8          183.9             35.7                      55.8
PER SQ. 1M. ACRI. LAW            293.0      293.1         364.3              92.4                     111.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YES                          40.9       42.9          42.8             39.9                      65.4
15-64 YES                         55.2       53.4          53.6              56.0                      51.7
65 ANDBADE                          3.9       3.7           3.5               4. 1                      2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL.                              1.6        1.5           1.7              2.4                       2.8
URBIAN                             4.1         3.9          4.0               3.6                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RtATE (PER THOU)        38.8       37.3           32.0             31.3                      47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIIOUS)       19.4       16.6          19.4               8.1                      15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0        3.0           2.6               2.0                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTRS. ANNUAL (T30U5)             ...16.1f
USERS (2 OP MARRIED UQIDi)          ..          .           q0oj             40.3
INDEX 07 FO00 1R00. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       104.0     100.0          85.0             114.3                      91.6
PERL CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)       91.0       96.0         96.0             110.6                      98.2
PROTEDINS (CRAMS PER DAY)         49.0       51.0          51.0              67.3                      56.7
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PUL.SE       17.0       18. 0         18.0 Id          34.3                      17.0
CHtILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        46.5       29.1          16.5               5.7                      18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEA4RS)      44.4       48.9          54.0o             64.7                      51.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PEAt THOUS)     382.0      142.5         110.1              60.6                     102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                                ...14.0 Ic                              65.4                      35.6
URBAN                               ...38.0 it-                              78.1                      34.2
RUtAL                               ..         .            7.O              46.2                      27.3
ACCESS TO RXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I- OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          .             .52.9
URBAN                               ..         .              .67.0
RURAL                               -           0..24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9230.0   11570.0         8200.0 If         *917.7                   11968.3
POP. PER  NURING PERSON           4020.0    3080.0         2490.0 7F          815.8                    22468.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            3570.0    1190.0         1240.0 Ia367.2                              986.9
URBAN                            300.0    -450.0 lb       520.0 /~d         411.5                     368.7
RURAL                               ..      5140.0 lb    3430.0 Id         2636.3                    4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..        .              .27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         3.6           4.4 /d
URSa                                           2.2          1.2 7d
RURAL                               ..         4.3          4.57d
AVERAGE HO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.9
URBAN                               ..        2.0
RURAL                                -.        1.9
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I or Th.. ZNCS)
TOTAL                               ..        4.1           2.9 /I
URBAN..                                         .
RURAL..                                         .



- 24 -                                         ANfl I
l ADLE ]A                                 Page 2 of 5
HAITI                  -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHUT
AtTS                                 REFERENCE 0nC  (WEICGHD AVERCAES) 
HOST                (MOST RECENT ESTIKATE) .1
MCT                  MIDDLE lNC              MIDDLE ILOKE
ESTINAY STLA b   T. AMICA 4 CAR    AFRICA S. OW SAARA
11DOC_ .1_
ADJUSTED NHROLLME  RATIOS
PRIEARYt  TOTAL                   46.0       53.0          69.0             105.4                     91.0
MILE                   50.0         ..          74.0             106.3                      90.5
FEALE                  42.0         ..          64.0             104.5                     75.6
SECOHDARYu TOTAL                   4.0         ..          13.0              43.2                     17.4
KALE                    5.0         ..          13.0              42.3                     23.7
FEMlAE                  2.0         ..          12.0              44.5                     14.8
VOCATIONAL CX OF SCCONIARY)         21.4       19.0           2.1              33.6                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0       52.0          44.0              30.1                     38.6
SECONDARl                         13.0       18.0          23.0              16.8                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE Ct)             14.5       21.3          23.0              79.5                     35.6
c00
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND FOP          2.3        2.7          4.7               46.0                     20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         5.8       19.6          20.2             225.6                    100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUESAD POP            0.5        2.6           3.2             107.2                     18.5
NSPAPER ("DAILY GENUEAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATION
PER THOWUSAND POPULATION          10.5       18.7           6.5 /f           63.5                     17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      0.3         ..           1.2 I             2.8                      0.3
TOTAL LADS FtlCE (THMOS)          1971.0    2102.0         2459.0
FEMLE (PERCENT)                   47.6       47.0          45.6              23.2                     33.8
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             e0.0       74.2          73.5              31.5                     57.1
INIUSYTRT (PERCEIT)                6.4        7.1           7.2              23.9                     17.4
PARTICIPATIlON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             54.3       49.6          47.3              32.2                     36.3
HAIR                              58.4       54.3          52.8              69.3                     47.6
FEMAlE                            50.4       45.2          42.0              15.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.8        0.9           1.0               1.4                      1.4
To DmSmwmu
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RErIVED n
HICHEST 5O or HOUSEHOLDS            ..
HICEST 201 Of HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 201 o0  HOUSEHOLDS           ..
LOWEST 401 oF RBUSENOLDS            ..
-d           n 
ESTMATED ALSOLUTE POVERTY INMCIR
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URLN                                ..         ..         169.0 /d          288.2                    525.3
RURAL                               ..         ..         144.0             184.0                    249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCWIE
LVEL (tSS PER CAPITA)
URIM                                ..         ..          82.0 /d          522.8                    477.4
RURAL                               ..         ..          73.0 7i          372.4                    186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERT  INCuE LEVEL tS)
DRAi                                ..         ..          55.0 /d
RURAL                               ..         ..          78.0 7rd
NOT AVAILABLE
WvY APPLICABLE
/a  The group average. for each Indicator are population-wetgted aritlmtic Mons.  Coverage of countries among the
Indlcators depends on availabilIty of data and Is not uniform.
lb   Unleas otberwis noted. ' Dta for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Datr for 1970" between 1969 and
1971: and dats for "Moat Recent Eeetlte" between 1980 and 1982.
/e 1976; /d 1977; te Age. 15-50; lf 1979; /R 1978; Ah 1V72; /I 1975.
JUE. 1984



- 25                                                               AINU I
ale bean. el    *~  ~ ~~~~W atIrtwta at MEtta leallY5    ieaaasb                                                          Pge 3 of 5
ottea   gtbj  sh"   datle .ft AMRee te-  .at.e jent jily     P  eth  n.e aharLtesgees eS ea9.lc..                                            be laad.&-ehln.ilyd 
spit  .sIelac I        n.,  eea .   eeer               M.ptsi. ale   Jl haashbemee L .ntI s. filt    "t.v
.bj.g  ~l   CRIP. r   ens%  d-ate Lb  anus- etah hestete aedl.ate-ba eltel  anli  ta eIAtIb Sisa  a. Rsa malph or   jeety  t                 ,aetale
etap be dale. tar iVW           MPlsct   dest  ath  le.Vgh at  seettflee e tneg e   lI1dhletes  dpat, aW lbe WelabILiyW atd 1weaS Cer seme efte.of anti  nat" be
eseeled i teeti   e-aLm at  S- 'ttete .-   atbeR.  Then ceateesf gatml. bfte dmeW ecst the saik sl ef -0 tdlee  a a Mtn wa nll            tLbm ant,
1..  41 a..                                                                     %-L"'                 tea,aM  Ct sint 1"It      b asttt tt tent.  I.
j- rs.  aet. atteg  ad bitche  taties  ., Ce Ie. rllmislOt.                    *.etet  shaltlistes.
as. -R     ia       on P.,IT1h.11. -1-   -O  -atattaP(t"al
lteO."  _ flf.1ad lulltjala,                                                    it at1 4T Int em phystets. Natabil ars,ia  eatL.1at.i         IFeaet  aeteiad
ptUstyl.ateestauiette.      psles, settti usa  spa.-. astsa,    etates  ate.,elat          1, 1ge.) sea en tala-el.LVAmd e alak      a
ead Eatemia eiarettL  letaa atelaattete   OI                                             pt.ae e  1.11     mrae.ahtlaim befat"litet. soakCls    .  d
St.                                                              t.. Pa-W-%  --t"ll. .5  lar cern..                                    'I-M.tfl di Lf  - et) saGbe  at1W eJetlarm a -assassItaeese
tree. emad 14   (tnta ta.-tel  fae. ta hagel a,eietia                                ITeheL   teaitjsee    e[                       h =3idal..tirl I  W  s1emsme
eseg  anetist it. 117. eatt~a2  aIs. Ib iI-W.idtrsieiatimietpan
41ete.    41 . eaeete  _aett  Let ntais  te  eelea at thyse                              .eld peti.   . a  hM                f       -  RPse        bA   S
saeeiMa  if  alaiee  atltl  etms  1bneepretsei.tiht.,atal )-ee   etin- Si ten -01
LtI.e tasfit!U gte.    (sl  lit. ewteamit? 'tallhm sit.                              &eeet-t.e-aatilea alt. eLteestiete .s"e          mse -wkgal  stst~asb-
ye_s  lb -etntasea tet-t  tateL. eta. benSIiC  gei                                   at- keal aeO.,  itea    ntis  sett
tgelsie .   apee LLace. ten   mett a a e1t    leeLtee  mat atllhea   W
atet.mt eanLettefs      it,- M"t L-lenI.-slt.anIS septli  PaettalityP- I-Ce   atl    l                                                              tit
te_s hm ses_ae  sat e eeptt.   age aatepeeiti fatalt d                                                                       aa        ean    treae
ert    a      c..L   igse  tasVRI     ta des e   a-Piat.a-tees   ae    eeaabg.                                  - ebse1.   LbI eital pae a.  RAF
beela. at_ "lapefnle  eh     ettt  atsh p- tega lb. rk-      tea-t-itiPsba -htact actd E.                              (ante Uq  -1 Pstt.d-a adkbasih s
-W,     lb- pet at- dee.i  atf leesiti, M-  se  .LVaeas              k                   .ml  -destae.ira   talacta tadleats ."aht .epese ptmayha   gsat
ea.t eJ ttga  the-d M= Ceaga ret  bee r Jcrledalg. tIe Me,e                                     Ieradd
ViLat  Rtce  --"ttt I.aeege     .a.the Ietaidi - bs-he ecet    W                    "PIma  .cea  t-If IF 0 I  ct.  atP .ae maete a- Iet-h apct-aVa
eamed, La.a date.     Jec t-J MLer t.tZ  - erta    .at  -h-.ee    betstes  tltdg
hre.Nh., .arlesJIM.ta   a   ." Resae      ..   tearstsdtla                              "ree.,e  sRi mealad.  Ueesti   wted   Oyern.4   ahl H.
retet5  te  ratas  yf-2!!  - Slitar..    . t-I-tec. -aels=at  II-
paetagatI gate Ista, a   1511 dat,                                                      at ' neeg tee  -w  ces        = ,eai  taa    Ls-.        ieta
paeheta  ta  02lle. 3Ces-set. ad ittt.2.                                               aitmea hases.  bLawnhts              1. taPe.- wa. regatsatta at tait
cela ie nk1mb  aa  fc esaa                  bin. ie  lrh  P.r ain n W4 IAt-               Mt t        reteI lee. Lea .a    te        eq  a he sawatmia aa, han
reptatattie. tts  ae ge) date..                                                 waatiphia  tat~ 41chalaejtbeaa    asmaleee        et
Opse: testett  P.te - A--j saber at aatnM     a an  e"Li bea ge                           Le neassalat Ia peep a.s tlteattla at if me. an Cae. cs
hatana   tewnelees   MLtI  If Wab ewlpeas  p-me  l-ap-ttfttacn   ieea lt                                                              lb-temtse) a     et  a
-,slgyaa  a_a4ty flee-tac  enen adg1 I. tlow. Ste0. a1                            aercalaga Of Piefl lntal -naeeac sane`; aetna aa  peetalgeal
VKn.C'                                          -Lhgea-t-I"e detaL. atarl   k- neat. aeRa=                                             a.i  e  et e
te M. Iit       eees   .c  fhsed)-st  er  teeyaet  ediy  se- Itcaea  sstn  tla  a                                                          dabt.-NRW
an. Ct thite-teetita aga a  eea ttntteln   dna                                     I bebeeattat S.-Alh   aaas
R       LtIce  splg teoo.taea9lc taati  1eta2ne            actc
abld-ealeesq  a. emetl  Ima.-dl.t   ib~ -Let-    -                  am                            Leamed  f-      ba all eagles pes9tacig  e
gesPta      -        t   &I anreeertm  maga     neard ta   -abc  e -mi t    (.S.b. tAt. hiDRsi.AeN6 amtsn.aIne., as.  ee
"  - .0     "darkish he  -h Mast t.                        ppetclaa  t at  Os   latates  t   mtes e.eaeaflaassg me5. O
-ak -~~ .-I plt-     ~-S, 19".  ~~ Ifeen-rehlti  ne.ioatli.
fte attaS gea-   cae   a a  (aga.       Z.,5p   seep epa"hrael  tea                      teeea   eaan5   elgha  aetrIl.ge  ct1 Se
aeseenIma- ates.t -      btb- e  ad.bie .V1  Ln.r -aniesP(..                      ltnt.e         C ta -lkse  t.  I. ette.   eaimtatle .1 aP-tanEtee a;
hed      sle   ca    MP"-.ae  tt . ats -L-l.st-atC. two   dtr                   adme terat bdatle.    c,l-as   lw       A.P.-
daa,-a.                       h        .I" 1-  C"   -.                           teseimbea lat   ..Laps)-I ate    sela  Sifemla -4   Perstat--l   at
t .. mtite   mt cid telt   feernet 1.t-  I nee   st.     -  e  t en.                      - n.Lep esh  sa rnse bac tae   ate.           at   et(t
Ir                                     -     V. -f~~~~aetas teeate   e  a dia  slnel  ape pet  at.. pe -Lem                              a  teal aleas .4  ab  tAe   atmIL     eli      teatlld
qetta   eaI teed~6 Psmtwo    law tan   edaehes   aet-ttaicse   e                                       ee)a
fte  aneaa           b  e               peaaetsa    ram El'  Cnuna :araIeatr                                                     -sA  aCt.  Ii Oasad bt aS am    Ca
qeadenatttbe.1           c taMeel,  ticieda  go pecee  Le .       enee4~ -1 m                                        t_  w
atbead II.-t tat-i  gath ati  deIa.        0C.     1    -
Petcegg P-at., at1ete,et. isre  R-14ee-  Lrest tst  Sb amptt                           eiiiiWet   a                bs  etb.   id      ae                   itt
en  wale- ci reed  tar da . sawat* tis         he deatic.tte.                          tar. rttet L .             .1 p   hanehaI p a   a.  Pmn.-  doVaasa
-aet tW       eiaeaacatea -.r Ldl  Pesi                  " let Satan~d  ta.tid.....a   f-ft& a-
.eaa   eseee      ete   eete5t    tre,MLpesa  l MpIa te had                      thesIS h lagt`.a  aeth  enthlabanla.iiR  
bit  lahe  sadWarle  -twia   mat a1_~    ieee 9is-a .    IWteIsi-tmea=eh1lt  Pse 1t t..   tet-tatI -#An     -  atla  Mdrce 
hatbel.  eset   atpaselaaa-P.aceel  tp                                                    hiepns   aaln   aga   anbn   eaat      ea
Cttdte   -ateh hate tar ltftaeest - ecesc dent. W e  ilaseast isW  9 telaade                          C"ae   =.ettt . on- te -1)5   s -atl-W atm   et  last
gttteege  Pstetia  tin  heelcac Peny lesaget (jertect   gibe
a , Iegt l.1. lJr a   az  n.                                                          er
pee- atag -pet t--.eaedglee  eelS  iee.    Dad  sa"date
Attet atbia  ate  fawst e  wa atiat -gel aptac      .  Si                                                                         h-tIl 
sslla-       ttta. b--   . f-d tha  tees  fyteata  laebtb . -p-ea ad Ra  l
War..  t   _ t._e eln -aebL.  -e  -eId taly that the  e-e.cte  at
hass atb te"'sedLd a. me la- te ana  dletpettaste. pets ef
th  dayi  aatetePnp  inset    ..
per-ctaei  Ci teenl eaMMtI  ap"epetati. ta-as  il~bapd  -v I-tA.d
et attache  ead deten,  4t alt  .)tta.c Iycn. at ban ana
ad   a-asta  by act-beta         W yte   at he aatpit retatha -a



- 26 -                                      Ali=
Page 4 of 5
sRITI - taaillC 08T8 S
OF  er ciltas  15320 (1983) !f
GROSS DONSTIC FROICT IN FY84                                     ANNL RATE CF  TH  (5 In Constant Prices)
USS MIl1 leons                            FY76-80         FY8D-B4
GOP at trkwt Prie"                 1.821.4      100.0                        5.0             -0.9
Grms Oguatic inveesnt                21U.0       15.8                        6.3              0.9
Goss Notinal Savings                 193.1       10.6                       -1.0              4.3
Currant Account Balance              -94.9       -5.2                         -                -
Exports of albods nd WV5             433.4       23.8                        8.2             -1.6
Ioports of Goods and WSF             644.8      35.4                        11.1             -3.8
VALUE AWDED IN 1963
(Constant FY76 Prices)
USS Ml11 Ions    J                       FY76-80         FY804
Agriculture                          527.6       33.3                        0.7             -1.3
industry d/                          238.2      24.2                         9.1             -2.2
Services                             417.4       42.5                        7.1              0.8
Total                               953.2      100.0                        5.0             -0.9
PUWLIC FIUNCE
Public Sector                      General Government
a Niilon           of GDP             GN Il  Ion        I of GDP
FY84      FY75  FY81  FY84            FY84       FY75  FY8I  FY84
Currant Reclpts                    1,760.2       13.1  15.9  19.3           914.9       9.3  9.0   10.0
Current scpanlturas                1,655.8       11.7  16,7  16.2         1,075.1       8.2  11.1   11.8
Currant Surplusa() or lleficit(-)    104.4        1.4  -0.8    1.1        -160.3        1.1  -2.2   -1.8
Capital Expenditures                 922.5        7.5  12.8  10.2          671.4        5.5  10.8    7.4
External. Rssistance (nmte,          605.1        5.2  10.1   6.6          517.4        4.5  9.1    5.7
MONEY. CREDIT AID PRICES
FY79     FY90       FY81       FY82       FY83      FY84
CMll  Ion 6 Otstand I ng  t End of Pr lod)
Money and QuasI-Money                  1,347.5   1,601.0    1,803.3   1.974.2   2.084.3   2,337.4
9is  eank Credit to Pubilc Sector        538.4      592.0     838.2   1,079.1    1,535.1    1,741.0
Junk Credit to Privale Sector        988.2   1.010,4    1,118.4   1,102.8    1,027.7    1,114.0
(Percentaes or Index Numbers)
Money ad Qasi-Money as U of 0P            24.0       21.9       24.6      26.8       25.6       25.7
Consu_r Price Index (CBe FYO100)            ..      100.0      111.3      119.0     131.2      137.4
Annual PFrcentage Changes In                ..         ..       11.3       6.9       10.3        4.7
Consumer Price *d1mg
Nat Geink Credit to Publ Ic Sector          .,       10.0      41.6       29.7       42.3        3.4
Nat Bank Credit to Private Secter           .,        2.2       10.7      -1.4        6.8       +8.4
WAGES
FY79      FY80       FY8I       FY82       FY83      FY84
Standard Mlnlmm llqa  Rte                  8.0       11.0       13.2      13.2       13.2       13.2
(Gourde per day)
Real Wage Index !j                        77.6       90.4      100.4      92.4       85.2       79.1
Note: Ai I conversions to dollars In this table are at the exchanog rate of G 5 - US11 that has preal led sInce 1919.
at Data refer to FY ending Septeaber 30.
b/ World Bank Atlas  ethodology.
ct/ Assebly Industry treated on a gross basis.
df Mining, nranufecturing, pub[lc utiIItles and construction.
at Nat disbursemnts of loans and grants.
f   Last quarter of FY71 - 100.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
HAITI- TRADE PAWIENrS AND CAPITAL FLOWS                            Page 5 of 5
NALAICE CF PAWIENrS                                                                    MENCHANDISE EXPCRIS (Avaraia FV`O-I4)
(USS 111lIonsa
FY79   FY60   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84                                            USS Mil lions
Exports of todts and WS         212.9  305.7  241.5  274.8  289.8  319.0               Coffee                           53.2    27.4
Importu of Goodts nd WS         350.2  463.8   519.6  473.8  500.1  526.9             Cocoa                             3.9       2.0
Raeource Balance (deficit * -I  -117.2  -178.1  -278.3  -198.9  -210.3  -207.9         Esantlal Otis                     5.9      3.0
Ausuebly Industry (Not)         53.9    27.8
Nat Factor Incom                -13.4  -14.3  -13.0  -14.0  -14.2  -18.1               Small Industry and 1bndlcraft   31.6      16.3
Nat Currmat Tranafers            75.9   94.1   131.5  128.7  124.1   136.0             All Other Co0udItles            45.4    23.5
Balance an Current Account      -54.7  -96.4  -159.8  -84.3  -100.4  -94.9              Total                          193.9    100.0
Nat Direct Investment             12.0   13.0    8.3      7.1    15.3    4.5
Nat N & LT Borrowlng (IRS)       41.7   39.0  102.2   57.3   37.4   47.1
Dlsbursement                   50.3   55.1   117.3   65.9   45.3   58.4
AmortIzatlon                    8.6    15.3   15.1    8.5    7.9    11.4
Other M & LT Inflows (Nat)       13.8   28.3   -2.3       6.0   21.2   26.7
Nnt Short-Tw  Capital             3.5    8.1   18.6    3.1    3.5    3.1
Change In Ntt Reservos a/        -16.8    9.2    33.0   10.7   22.9   13.7
Not Reservs                        ..    29.5   -3.8  -14.5  -37.3  -51.0
EXTERNAL TADE                                                                           EXTERNAL DEBT. SEPTEPEER 30. 1984 USS NIl lIons
CUSS Mlillons)                            FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84
PublIc Debt. IncludIng Guarantee      493.9
Merchandise Exports                   225.7  155.1   181.3  188.7  219.4             Non-Guaranteed Prlvate Debt
Prlmary                              129.6   61.9    75.8  105.5  112.9            Total Outstanding and Dlsbursed
Manufactures                         96.1   93.2   105.5   85.1   106.8
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY84
Narchandlse Imports                   354.2  447.9  387.3  440.3  474.1
Food Ftoducts                        61.9   81.9   72.8   82.2   88.7              Public Debt. Including Guaranteed        5.5
Petroleum                            48.5   53.9   45.6   56.4   60.8             Nlu-Guaranteed Private  Debt
Machinery and Equipent               64.0  105.4   89.1   85.5   92.2              Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Manufactures                         162.5   186.9  161.9  192.1  207.2
Others                                17.3    19.8    17.9   24.1   25.2           IM LENDING. SEPTEMBER 30. 1984
RATE OF ECHANGE                                                                        OutstandInq and Disbursed              150.4
U'nd I sbursad                         60.9
Slnce 1919                                                                             OutstandIng, Including Undisbursed    211.3
USS1.OQ - G 5.00
G 1.00 - USS0.20
a? Increase Is minus
t



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI a/
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985)
------US$ million----
Loan or                                                  (Less cancellation)
Credit                                                Bank
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose     Amount   IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and eight credits have been fully disbursed 2.6   83.52
770-HA   1978  Republic of Haiti  Education II                10.00      0.11
895-HA   1979  Republic of Haiti  Power II                    16.50      0.82
1106-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Agricultural
Rehabilitation           2.50      0.08
1121-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Ports                        8.62        -
1131-HA  1981  Republic of Haiti  Industrial Credit            5.65       1.64
1220-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Highways VI                 12.09      5.70
1257-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Forestry                     3.57      2.90
1281-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Power III                   22.90      6.84
1305-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Education III                8.33      4.04
1338-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Development            7.34      4.02
SF01-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Develoment            11.90      10.91
1410-HA  1984  Republic of Haiti  Rural
Development II         17.55      14.42
1527-HA  1985  Republic of Haiti  Fourth Power                21.61     21.47
Total                                       2.6   232.07      72.86
of which has been repaid                  2.6     0.13
Total now outstanding                       -     231.94
Amount sold                                 0.4
of which has been repaid                  0.4     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    231.94
Total Undisbursed                                          72.86
a/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Fage 2 of 2
HAITI
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ Million
Year           Borrower                Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1982      Promoteurs et                Integrated       1.35     0.15      1.50
Investisseurs               Poultry
Associes, S. A.
Total Gross Commitments                       1.35     0.15      1.50
Less Repayments                             -         -        -
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                     1.35      0.15     1.50
Total Undisbursed                            0.11      0.04     0.15



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Haiti
Fourth Education and Training Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project: 20 months (from identification                    t
to Board presentation).
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project: MEN/IPN/INFP/Commission
Administrative.
(c) Sector mission/identification mission: October 1983.
(d) First mission to review project: December 1983.
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: February 1984.
(f) Departure of post-appraisal mission: September 1984.
(g) Completion of negotiations: March 25, 1985
(h) Planned date of effectiveness: August 15, 1985.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained regarding the following
matters:
1. Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) establish of the Consultative Council (para. 60);
(b) furnish the evidence that the Swiss Contribution Agreement has
been signed and ratified, and that all conditions of
effectiveness have been fulfilled (para. 63); and
(c) establish a Project Account and deposit US$100,000 therein
(para. 65).
2. Other conditions
(a) review education sector budget twice a year: proposals in March; the
adequacy of allocations in September (para. 43);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
t            (b)  annual review of adequacy of recurrent fund provisions for project
(para. 43);
(c)  adopt a new salary scale for vocational/technical subsector
staff (para. 57);
(d) presentation of a medium term investment plan (para. 44); and
(e) review annually the progress of the education reform (para. 39);
(f) textbooks and work books financed i*nder the project would not be
commercially marketed (para. 51); and
(g) provide financing for HEN's incremental salary bill in increasing
percentages (para. 49).
t



73 30                                       Wh0o
\                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.o00
POET.DE.PnA
~CU BA>. 
-   C'Ub^\e   ,---                                                                  /D,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------
/   '***~ -DMIRCASI                                                                                                               -1- 
HAITI
FOURTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING
PROJECT
C lwb 5
El POLVVALENT TRAINING CENTERIS
SATELLITE CANTER
A     INFP AND 4 TECHNICAL TRAINING CENTERS
ROAD NETWORK
ASPHALT
GRAVEL
19,00             1 --  DIRT
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       ,
-  -  _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS                                          to      0        1I      20      30
80bo.    ISOEMIlE
P.-                      5.d
Dom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 't....,.. ,Zf_(
/  _               _E       1<  ~~~~--    '  _  Q~.                     d** N.DH
lE30 A.. z f                                        S __0... _S            
>\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L .1.'DJ 
17WOO 74''-.4 ..-                                                               -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r. e.. d.,- N.                             Lar ,.... t  _' ~
S   et S l        '°;uSu
15.00 7430                                      7r°                                         7730                                        7700



IBRD 18660R
7rbo ~~~~~~~~~~~..3                                                       n-io 7o
,   /                                                   C       f' A    N                                                     2090
a,- e a  E S  X                     -           =_                       ;^1 .;   --n~~~~~~~~~~0.1.4
(              W       W  eB0e-      r         Asul du Nord /   sOt ed           y  ~~~~ 0g > | G - GPd*R.
s         o                      \     1s "P                                 ,    .....
S--                  Vil                                      IXOR--.O   '
:^ Vv ^lwsO\> ~~~~~~~~~~..8......... Ziyo  
T,        e\                                                                        -  -
77W ~~-^FIIl 7 ><                                                         r 17-                    I     n:
D0FDI.ee.IIZ~~~~ARC                                            1985a. X. ...,,






