Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6948-HA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR 15 MILLION
TO
TEE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
August 19, 1996
Country Department III
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(May 1996)
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
Exchange Rate
US$1.00 = G 15.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BZSIF  -       Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility
CAS   -        Country Assistance Strategy
CFD    -       Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CIDA   -       Canadian International Development Agency
CRDA  -        Agricultural Research and Development Center
(Centre de Recherche et de Developpement Agricole)
ESF    -       Economic and Social Fund Project
(Fonds d'Assistance Economique et Sociale - FAES)
GEF   -        Global Envirownent Facility
GOH   -        Government of Haiti
ICB    -       International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -       International Development Association
IDB    -       Inter-American Development Bank
NEAP  -        National Environmental Action Plan
MARNDR-        Ministiy of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development
(Ministere de lAgriculture, des Ressources Naturelles et du
Developpement Rural)
MDE   -        Ministry of Environment (Ministere de l'Environnement)
NGO   -        Non-Governmental Organization
OED   -        Operations Evaluation Department
PCU    -       Project Coordinating Unit
PPF    -       Project Preparation Facility
SDR   -        Special Drawing Right
SOE    -       Statement of Expenditure
SPNS  -        National Park Service
SRF    -       Forest Resources Service
TA     -       Technical Assistance
TOR   -        Terms of Reference
UNDP  -        United Nations Development Programme
USAID -        United States Agency for International Development



FOREST AND PARK PROTECTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
1. BACKGROUND                                                                     1
A. COUNTRY OVERVIEW                                                                I
B. INSTITUrlONAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONSTRAINTS                                  5
C. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE                                                         7
D. GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY                                             11
E. DONOR STRATEGIES AND ACTIVITIES                                                12
2. THE PROJECT                                                                    14
A. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT                                                  14
B. OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION                                             14
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                                    17
A. PROJECT COSTS                                                                  17
B. PROJECT FINANCING                                                              18
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING                                           18
A. PROJECT COORDINATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                            18
B. PROCUREMENT                                                                    20
C. DISBURSEMENT                                                                   21
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT                                                             22
E. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING                                           23
5. PROJECT ANALYSIS                                                               24
A. PROJECT BENEFITS                                                              24
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS                                                          29
C. SUSTAINABILITY                                                                30
D. RISKS                                                                          3 1
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                                  31
TABLES
Table 1 - Project Costs Summary                                                   17
Table 2 - Financing Plan                                                         18
Table 3 - Estimated Disbursements                                                22
Table 4 - Buffer Zone Development Facility Financial Indicators                  28
FIGURES
Figure 1 - Pic Macaya National Park: Location and downstream areas vulnerable to damage
Figure 2 - La Visite National Park: Location and downstream areas vulnerable to damage
Figure 3 - Foret des Pins Forest Reserve: Location and downstream areas vulnerable to damage



ANNEXES
Annex A       Cost and Financing Tables
Annex B       Project Implementation and Impact Indicators
(Indicateurs des Resultats et d'Impact)
Annex C       Project Implementation Schedule
(Chronogramme d'Execution du Projet)
Annex D       Supervision Plan
Annex E       Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility: Eligibility Principles
MAP
IBRD Map No. 28001
ANNEXES IN PROJECT FILE
Annex F       Cadre Legal Pour les Ressources Naturelles, les Reserves Forestieres et les Parcs
(Regulatory Framework for Natural Resources, Forest Reserves and Parks)
Annex G       Volet Amrnagement des Reserves Naturelles (Natural Reserve Management
Component)
G1: Sous-Volet Amenagement de la Foret des Pins
(Pine Forest Management Subcomponent)
G2: Sous-Volet Amenagement des Parcs Nationaux
(National Park Management Subcomponent)
Annex H       Volet Developpement Zones Tampons (Buffer Zone Development Component)
H i: Sous-Volet Generation et Transfert de Technologie
(Technology Generation and Transfer Subcomponent)
H2: Sous-Volet Programme d'Appui aux Petits Investissements dans les
Zones Tampons (Buffer Zone Small Investmlent Facility)
Annex I       Volet Formation et Assistance Technique (Training and Technical Assistance
Component)
Annex J       Analyse du Projet (Project Analysis)
J 1: Analyse Financiere du Volet Developpement des Zones Tampons
(Financial Analysis of Buffer Zone Development Component)
J2: Analyse Economique du Volet Amenagement des Reserves Naturelles
(Economic Analysis of Natural Reserve Management Component
Vice President:                Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director                       Mr. Paul Isenman
Acting Division Chief          Mr. Jonathan Parker
Task Manager                   Mr. Daniel Moreau



HAITI
FOREST AND PARK PROTECTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1. BACKGROUND
A. Country Overview
1.1   Social and Economic Setting. Haiti is a small, predominately rural, country.
Its 7 million people occupy 28,000 square kilometers on the western end of the island of
Hispaniola. With an estimated GNP per capita of below US$250 in 1994, Haiti is the
poorest and one of the most densely populated nations in the Western Hemisphere. Social
indicators are alarming. In 1994, an estimated 50 percent of the population had a caloric
intake of below 75 percent of requirements, and over 25 percent of children suffered from
malnutrition. The infant mortality rate is estimated to exceed 100 per 1,000 live births.
Some 50 percent of adult Haitians are illiterate. Net of emigration of 0.5 percent, the
population grew at a rate of 1.8 percent per year in the 1980s. Unemployment and under
employment are estimated at 70 percent.
1.2   During 1980-91, Haiti's population suffered a continuing decline in its standard of
living, with real GNP per capita falling by about 2 percent per year. Over decades,
population pressure and poor public policies forced cultivation of increasingly marginal
lands, and in turn accelerated deforestation and soil erosion. As a result, agricultural
production, the main source of income of the 70 percent of the population who live in
rural areas, has fallen steadily on a per capita basis since the 1970s. In the second half of
the 1970s, an expansion in the export industry together with increasing public investment
partially compensated for the decline in agriculture and allowed the country to grow at a
rate of about 3 percent per capita. However, political instability during most of the 1980s
put a stop to industrial expansion, investment, external assistance and economic growth.
1.3   Political stalemate during the 1991-1994 period coupled with the international
embargo on Haiti aggravated economic decline. In 1990, President Aristide was
democratically elected and took office in February 1991. His Government undertook
measures to improve fiscal revenues, liberalize trade and improve infrastructure services,
and initiated discussions on an IMF stand-by agreement. However, in September 1991, a
military-led coup d'etat forced President Aristide from office and into exile. During the
following three years, increased economic mismanagement and international rejection led
to an international embargo, resulting in a dramatic decline in living standards. On
October 16, 1994, President Aristide was able to return to Haiti, and on November 7,
1994, a new constitutional Government was appointed. During this period, economic
performance deteriorated at an accelerated pace. Preliminary data indicate that real GDP
fell by over 17 percent during 1992-93, and by a further 10 percent in 1994. All sectors



- 2 -
were affected, and the situation was further aggravated by the tropical storm Gordon
which hit Haiti on November 12, 1994. Agricultural production and exports decreased
considerably. Export oriented industries were devastated by the embargo. Value-added in
the services sector decreased in line with GDP, and construction activities came to a
virtual standstill. After peaceful elections in December 1995, Rene Preval, Prime Minister
under Aristide's first Government in 1991, was elected and took office on February 7,
1996.
1.4    Forestry and Environmental Protection. Despite its small relative size, Haiti
has an unusually broad diversity of ecosystems and endemic species. Ecosystems include
alkaline, inland lakes, coastal mangrove forests, dry-scrub forests, savannas, and moist
forests on peaks reaching almost 3,000 meters. About 30 percent of Haiti's plant and
animal species are endemic to the island of Hispaniola: a greater percentage than is found
in the larger and less environmentally degraded Dominican Republic. This biological
richness is due to the wide range of rainfall and topography, and the fact that Haiti is a
combination of two geologically distinct islands, one supporting a biology with origins in
the North-American continent, and the other, the South American continent. The recently
published, Global Environmental Facility (GEF) sponsored study, A Conservation
Assessment of the Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin America and the Caribbean, found that
both the moist forest and pine forest ecosystems of Hispaniola were regionally
outstanding.
1.5    Haiti's endowment of forest resources has been treated as a free good and
exploited to capitalize economic development since colonial times. Europeans cleared
mountain forests to establish coffee plantations and used clean-tilling agricultural practices
that promoted soil erosion. European colonists and, then later, early Haitian governments
harvested and exported timber (chiefly mahogany, ironwood, and logwood) to earn hard
currency. Haiti's peasants, especially the land-less and land-poor, have historically cleared
forest to expand agriculture and harvested trees to market timber and charcoal. Peasants
also exploit forest stocks in times of economic insecurity to finance unexpected
contingencies. In many situations, the unsustainable exploitation of trees or forest is the
only remaining income-generating option available to peasants.
1.6    The pace of degradation of forest resources accelerated rapidly over the last
several decades and Haiti's once abundant forests have diminished to a remnant.' Closed
BDPA-SCETAGRI (Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en Vue d 'un Developpement Durable en Haiti,
Rapport Final, Fevrier, 1990). Data on Haiti's wood resources is conflicting and not up-to-date. The
most recent inventory was made in 1978 by FAO and estimated the natural forest area at about
1,210 kMn2, down from the 1956 inventory result of 1,900 kin2, a reduction by 36 percent over 20 years.
The 1988 FAO/CP project preparation mission estimated natural forest cover at 1,070 km2 of natural
forest, a decrease of another 22 percent over ten years, broken down as follows:
Pine Forest:           Dense             80 km2
Degraded        200 km2
Leaf Forest:           Dense            140 km2
Degraded        500 km2



- 3 -
cover, natural forest is now estimated to represent only 2 percent of all land area.
Twenty-five of the 30 major watersheds are almost devoid of cover. Forests are now
reduced to small and isolated patches and associated with steep ravines, high mountain
peaks and coastal mangrove areas. As a result, associated plant and animal species are
severely reduced in number and many species face extinction. This degradation is driven
by the forces mentioned above, only exacerbated by increases in population and rural
poverty. In addition to on-site biological damage, deforestation contributes to soil erosion
which in turn endangers water supplies and contributes to soil erosion. This erosion
decreases agricultural productivity, which is already half of the Latin American average.
At the same time, sedimentation affects hydro-energy supply, blocks drainage systems,
impedes use of port facilities and destroys marine ecosystems near the shore.
Environmental degradation is undercutting the productivity of the over 70 percent of
Haitians who reside in rural areas, and threatens to undermine all future national economic
development. The GEF sponsored study mentioned above, that classified Hispaniola's
moist and pine forest habitats regionally outstanding, concluded that these habitats were
endangered and in the highest category of priority for protection at the regional level.
1.7    Although Haiti has an impressive number of laws and regulations to protect natural
resources, these are largely either inappropriate, inconsistent or incomplete, and the
Government lacks the capacity to enforce them. The existing natural resource legislation
is poorly adapted to the socio-economic context of rural Haiti, emphasizing prohibition
with little attention to incentives. The historic situation of inappropriate regulations,
incapable enforcement and an unformed public establish a situation where incentives are
perverse, the potential for extortion high, and distortions are almost certainly pervasive.
For example, tree harvesting, even on private land, is officially prohibited except by permit
from the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR),
thereby creating a disincentive for farmers to adopt forestry practices. Although
according to MARNDR officials this particular policy is not currently enforced,
national-level officials do not have the means to know whether field agents are continuing
to demand payment.
1.8    A majority of the remaining contiguous, closed-cover forest in Haiti is located in
and around three national reserves -- the Pine Forest National Reserve, the Pic Macaya
National Park, and the La Visite National Park. Fortunately, these three areas encompass
the habitats of a great number of threatened and endangered endemic animal and plant
species. For example, some 80 percent of remaining Haitian bird species are represented
in the La Visite National Park. In addition, these areas are located at the headwaters of
Mangroves:            Degraded         150 km2
In addition to those areas of "natural forest," BDPA-SCETAGRI estirated: (a) 400 km 2 of very open
pine forest; (b) 800 krm2 of secondary broad leaf forest; (c) 2.900 km2 of degraded dryland forest (e.g.,
Prosopis and Acacia sps.); (d) 1,700 km2 of dense tree crops (e.g.. coffee); and (e) 4,000 km2 of open
tree crops. The final environmental report by BDPA of Februaiy 1990 does not give a detailed account
of Haiti's forest areas.



several of Haiti's most productive agricultural areas and the aquifer from which
Port-au-Prince draws the majority of its potable water. Unfortunately, these reserves face
steady encroachment for agricultural production and illegal harvesting, and have recently
become a new target for commercial charcoal harvesters for the urban market. Local
peoples generally harvest for fuelwood and kindling, while the bulk of illegal logging and
sawmilling is organized by urban-based outsiders. Government protection of the reserves
has been, and remains, limited and all reserves are inadequately identified and delimited.
Governments have never supplied development services to local populations and few
NGOs have provided services in these high elevation areas. Local forest vigilance
brigades have formed in the Pine Forest Reserve and La Visite Park to reduce outsider
exploitation. Local populations are not integrated into management decisions and do not
tangibly benefit from protection. A substantial percentage of local inhabitants hold
insecure claims to state land.
1.9    Agriculture Sector Agriculture in terms of GDP contribution and employment
remains Haiti's most important economic sector, although its contribution has been
declining and is expected to continue its long-term decline. The decline is explained by,
among other factors, a lack of rural infrastructure, historic under-investment in rural
human capital, world decline in commodity prices and exposure to competition, stagnant
production technology, almost complete absence of formal credit sources and the
relentless pressure of the population on the country's very limited cultivable land
resources. These factors have led to unviably small farm sizes, overexploitation of land,
increases in the land values, and declining productivity per hectare and per worker. These
problems are complicated by a fluid and complex land tenure situation that can discourage
rational use of the available land resources. In addition, Government support services,
which should promote technological change, are practically non-existent. Structural and
policy changes in recent years include the demise of the sugar industry, the removal of
quantitative protection for traditional crops such as maize and rice, government subsidy of
rice imports, and the reduction or elimination of export taxes, now benefiting producers of
coffee, sisal and cocoa. International market developments have generally negatively
impacted on Haiti, in particular the significant decline of coffee and cocoa prices since
early 1989.
1.10  Information on Haiti's land use is limited to 1978 aerial photographs, which
indicate that nearly 80 percent of Haiti's area is devoted to agriculture in the broad sense,
including 62 percent for crop use and 18 percent extensive grazing. The net cultivated
area represents 11,900 kM2, or 44 percent of Haiti's land area. Twenty eight percent of
the net cultivated area is in tree crops, 13 percent in specialized crops, e.g., rice, and
59 percent in food crops mostly grown in the hilly areas.2 Against this pattern of extensive
land use are the estimates of BDPA that only 7,700 km2 (or 28 percent of the total land
area) is appropriate for conventionally mechanized agriculture. That would mean that
cultivation on land unsuited for agriculture is occurring on 20 percent to 30 percent of the
2     BDPA-SCETAGRI: Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en Mue d'un Developpement Durable en
Haiti, Rapport Final, Fe5vrier 1990.



- 5 -
country's land area, the consequence of which is serious natural resource degradation and
extreme poverty for those who must farm such areas.
1.11   Rural poverty is pervasive, entrenched and severe. Available data for 1987, show
that about 65 percent of households could be classified as very poor. Households with an
average income one half the poverty threshold represented about 40 percent of the total
population. A recent study in Southern Haiti, the area of project intervention, estimated
average annual per capita income at US$120. The majority of this income derives from
agriculture, and secondly from petty commerce. Average annual net expenditures were
estimated at US$102. Female-headed households were significantly poorer than
male-headed, and over 20 percent of the population had annual incomes of less than
US$ 30.
B. Institutional Responsibilities and Constraints
1.12  A wide variety of institutions operate within the natural resources sector in Haiti.
Major Governmental entities include the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Rural Development (MARNDR), the Ministry of the Environment (MDE). These
institutions have, in general, broad mandates yet extremely limited capacities to execute.
The bulk of the operational interventions in the natural resources and energy sectors,
especially over the last three decades, have been conducted by non-governmental
organizations (NGOs). NGOs range tremendously in size, technical competence and
administrative capacity. These efforts are uncoordinated, and their impacts often
important, yet limited to local levels.
1.13  Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development
(MARNDR). The three principal objectives of MARNDR, as stated in its organic law,
are to promote agriculture, conservation and utilization of natural resources, and rural
development. Currently, the central structure of the Ministry is divided into Directorates.
There are four technical directorates (Livestock, Agriculture, Natural Resources, Rural
Development) charged with setting national strategy and policy in their respective domain.
In addition to the technical directorates, there is a Directorate of Training and Continuing
Education (DFPC), and a Directorate of Administration and a Directorate for each of the
nine regional Departments. These departmental directorates are charged with executing
and monitoring programs, and are each divided into sub-offices, one for each of the
132 rural communes. The Minister is assisted by a Director General who, in addition to
supervising all Directorates, supervises a technical secretariat and three other units: Unit
of Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning (UPSE), Center of Agricultural Development
Research (CRDA), and a machinery park. The departmental directorates report to the
Director General, and not directly to the specialized directorates or services.
1.14  Each directorate comprises a number of services for the different activities it is
supposed to provide. The Directorate of Natural Resources (DRN) comprises the
following six services: Irrigation and Rural Engineering, Soil Conservation, Water
Resources, Forest Resources, Meteorology, National Parks and Natural Sites, and



Aquaculture and Fishing. However, most of these services are neither fully staffed nor
funded, and therefore have a limited ability to perform useful functions. The National
Parks and Natural Sites Service (SPNS) was created in January 1996 and is staffed with a
single individual with no program responsibilities. The SPNS was established on a
temporary basis, with the intent of transferring it to the Ministry of Environment (MDE)
upon passage of the MDE's organic law. The Forest Resources Service (SRF), which was
the primary focus of the World Bank-funded Pilot Forestry Project, is nominally
subdivided into five sections: management of natural forests, reforestation and
agroforestry, forestry statistics, and forestry research, although these sections are not
staffed. The personnel of the SRF entails a Chief of the Service, an Assistant Chief, one
agronomist, five agroforestry technicians, four forestry agents, and nine support staff.
Besides the Chief, who promotes forestry initiatives on a national level, staff efforts focus
on the Foret des Pins, National Forest Reserve.
1.15   MARNDR's effectiveness is constrained both by its structure and its limited
funding. Over the last several decades MARNDR's budget has constituted less than
3 percent of the national budget, and over 75 percent of this budget is expended on
salaries. The existing structure is highly centralized and causes problems of coordination,
in particular between the departmental directorates, the regional development
organizations, and the technical directorates of the central Ministry. Units operate
independently without clear lines of command and responsibilities. Consequently,
duplications of activities and waste of time and resources are common. For example, the
CRDA, responsible for technology generation and transfer, has no official relationship
with the departmental directorates, responsible for agricultural extension.
Decentralization has long been proposed as a means of increasing and improving the
delivery of services to the rural areas, and was, in fact, included in a 1982 Law, the 1987
Constitution, and a 1991 plan to reorganize the Ministry. However, no serious attempts
have been made to streamline MARNDR's operations. Past efforts were stifled by a very
high turn-over of ministers and senior staff, and the resultant discontinuity of policies and
strong political focus of all activities. The return of constitutional government and
anticipated political stability provides an opportunity to address these issues. In 1995 the
Ministry requested the FAO to assist in preparing a reorganization plan, but this plan was
rejected by early 1996. There are no new reorganization plans currently being considered.
1.16 Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment (MDE) was
created by presidential decree in January of 1995 with a global mandate to protect Haiti's
environment. The MDE's specific mission and organizational structure are to be specified
with the passing of its organic law, which the Ministry submitted to Parliament during the
month of December 1995. The MDE is currently organized in the following manner: The
Minister is assisted by a personal Cabinet composed of three advisors (on a consultant
basis). The Director General, who directs the MDE line staff, is advised by a Technical
Secretariat composed of three technical experts (consultants). Line staff is organized in
four sections: Administration (ten persons); NEAP Coordination (two technical staff and
four consultants); Special Projects (two technical staff); and a Technical Team (two



- 7 -
technical staff and three consultants). The MDE has received institutional and project
support mainly from USAID and UNDP.
1.17  Miscellaneous Institutions. Other institutional responsibilities for the
management of natural resources are found below. The impact of these institutions is
marginal, due to a lack of resources. (i) The Minyistry of Economy and Finance. Through
its tax authority, Direction Generale des Imp6ts (DGI), the Ministry manages the "private
domain of the state," i.e., state land that can be leased out, sold, donated or homesteaded
to individuals or corporations under contractual arrangements (this is in contrast to the
"public domain of the state," which is administered by other ministries and can also be
leased out but not alienated; national parks would belong to this latter category of
landholding; (ii) The Inistitlute for the Safeguard of the Nationial Patrimony (ISPAN). This
is a semi-autonomous Government agency under the Ministry of Education that shares
jurisdiction over national parks with the DRN; (iii) The National Tourism Office. This
agency shares jurisdiction over parks; and (iv) The Minlistry of Planning and External
Cooperation. The Ministry is charged with monitoring NGOs and land use planning.
1.18  NGOs in the Natural Resources Sector. NGOs have been the leading service
providers, and the leading centers for technical expertise in the agriculture and natural
resources sectors, since the early 1 980s when bilateral donors suspended assistance to the
Government. A survey conducted in 1989 found that over 300 NGOs provided rural
development services and that over 100 promoted tree planting. During the late 1980s,
and until the 1991 couip d'etat, total bilateral aid alone administered by NGOs in the
agriculture and natural resources sector is estimated to have exceeded US$ 10 million
annually. NGOs vary greatly in size, development philosophy and technical competence.
The NGOs with the greatest impact are the large international organizations with funding
from bilateral donors (e.g. CARE, the Pan American Development Foundation (PADF)).
These two organizations alone were providing agricultural extension services to over
30,000 peasants a year during the early 1990s. Local, Haitian NGOs (e.g. GRAMIR,
GATAP, GRD, SEFADES, ASSODLO) execute a wide variety of rural development and
natural resources projects and are gaining in number, expertise and administrative
competence. Some of the smaller NGOs (e.g. World Neighbors and the Mennonite
Central Committee) have been the source of significant technical and institutional
innovations in the sector.
C. Lessons From Experience
Country Lessons
1.19  MajorAgroforestryProjects (Agroforestry Outreach Project (AOP) (1981-1989);
Agroforestry II (AFII) (1990-1991); and Productive Land Use Systems (PLUS)
(1992-1999). These were the largest natural resource management projects in Haiti since
1980 and were all financed by USAID. The objective of the AOP was to promote
commercial tree production on private farm land without affecting food crop production.



- 8 -
USAID contributed US$27 million to this program between 1981 and 1990. During this
period about 50 million tree seedlings were distributed, involving more than 200,000
farms. Key lessons from the AOP and the AFII with relevance to the project include:
(a) using local NGOs as vehicles for extension packages was effective and efficient;
(b) peasants are eager to plant trees, especially when assured of harvest rights, and when
these trees can be easily integrated into their traditional agroforestry systems;
(c) investments in soil conservation usually yield more significant economic and
environmental benefits that tree planting; and (d) that peasants are eager to voluntarily
adopt soil conservation techniques when they require low labor inputs and can be easily
integrated into their farming system. These lessons are common across natural resource
management projects operating in Haiti during the 1980s. The PLUS project was
designed to integrate these lessons. It targets farm sites where production can be
intensified with simple soil conservation practices. The PLUS project demonstrates that it
is possible to simultaneously enhance family food security and yield environmental
benefits, and to do so in a cost-efficient manner. A key lesson from the major agroforestry
projects is that such efforts conducted outside of government structures further weaken
government capacity (by offering better salaries and working conditions to trained
personnel, and thus drawing technical staff away from the Ministry) and causing even
greater resentment and distrust between the government and NGO communities. The
proposed Forest and Parks Protection Technical Assistance Project (FPPTAP) will
integrate these lessons by hiring competent NGOs to promote the proven hillside
technologies under the strict technical supervision of government authorities. In this
manner, the project seeks to build a positive partnership between NGOs and government
authorities where each profit from the others' role and competence.
1.20 Macaya Biosphere Reserve (MBR) Project, University of Florida (1987-1992).
This project was the largest park protection and buffer zone management project in the
history of Haiti. It was also funded by USAID. The principal objective of the MBR
project was to protect the natural ecosystems (forests) and natural resources of the Pic
Macaya and surrounding areas, and thus assure the sustainable development of the park's
watershed area. Activities included: (a) planning the management of the park and
functional zoning for appropriate land use; (b) assisting the 1,750 peasants in the MBR to
increase agricultural production using ecologically appropriate methods; (c) rehabilitating
critical zones that have been environmentally degraded (e.g. steep slopes, springs,
endangered habitats); and (d) establishing an informational (data) history of the Pic
Macaya area. Project leaders distilled the following lessons after project closure in 1990:
(a) park protection cannot be achieved in a short-term period, long-term funding and
activities must be assured; (b) public support and local participation are essential to project
success, as well as the support of associated politicians and counterpart governmental
institutions; (c) co-management of the project, with the communities of the park area,
must be well established during the design phase to ensure local ownership; (d) because
income generation will be the overriding concern of the local community, a project can
easily become a mere source of livelihood for community participants, distorting the base
for any efforts at co-management; and (e) due to common social hierarchies, careful
selection and inclusion of local leaders as co-managers is essential in order to ensure a



- 9 -
broader community support for project efforts. The FPPTA Project will integrate these
lessons by establishing permanent advisory co-management advisory councils composed of
representatives of local public and private organizations, and by establishing the basis for
long-term government presence in the Park areas. The project will also assure the
judicious use of labor-intensive projects to diminish the possibility of increasing
immigration and local dependence on government subsidized incomes.
1. 21 Pic Macaya Protection Project (PPM), UNICORS (1992- i 996). The PPM is the
follow-on to the MBR project described above. The PPM was designed to integrate some
of the lessons from the MBR project and focused more squarely on improving local
incomes and local participation in park management decisions. UNICORS, a local
cooperative of coffee producers with substantial private land holdings within the National
Park Boundary, was invited by USAID to implement the project. Most of the lessons
from the PPM are not different from those generated by the MBR. One particular lesson
is important, and that is that it is critical to hire service providers that are locally perceived
as fair and competent. UNICORS has been highly contentious, both because it is a large
landowner within the Park, and is seen by many as having a unfair vested interest in Park
development, rather that protection, and because it is a peasant cooperative with no
previous experience managing parks or executing major development programs. Two
additional lessons from national park management experience in Haiti are instructive:
(a) authoritative presence is requisite; and (b) basic protcction need not necessarily be
costly. Large-scale harvesting and invasions immediately followed the suspension of
guard services and extension projects in the Pic Macaya Park and Pine Forest Reserve
after the military coup of 1991. On the other hand, the La Visite Park was left largely
untouched. The only known difference is that a private individual paid La Visite park
guard salaries during the entire military regime period at a cost of about US$50 per
month.
Sector Lessons
1.22  Natural Reserve and Buffer Zone Management. An independent assessment of
Bank-supported protected area projects in 1993 concluded that: (a) too little
consideration had been given to local people, their expertise and their priorities; (b) NGO
services should have been used to a greater extent; and (c) long-term financing of such
projects was sometimes doubtful. Similar observations are found in the 1991 OED
analysis of forestry and conservation lending.
1.23   The principal lesson is that projects which have focused on purely biological
concerns, and have attempted to insulate the project site from surrounding economic and
social pressures, have often failed. The FPPTAP embodies the thesis that protection of
the biodiversity assets in the protected areas can only be achieved through significant
change in social and economic factors affecting the lives of people who live and work in
and around the reserves.



1.24  Rural Development Funds. Bank experience with decentralized rural
development funds in Colombia and Mexico indicates that programs can be successful
when they: (a) give target group representatives a central role in program design and
grant selection; (b) clearly define objectives from the outset and explicitly focus on
enhancing rural management capacity; (c) have simple, widely publicized procedures and
respond rapidly, transparently and flexibly to proposals; (d) do not follow normal
government procurement and administration procedures; and (e) are apolitical and
perceived to be fair. In addition, evaluations found weaknesses in the technical quality of
some subprojects as well as limitations in the selection of subprojects. Non-governmental
and bilateral organizations have substantial experience funding productive projects in rural
Haiti. Their experience indicates that success is dependent upon quality, locally trusted,
technical assistance and close monitoring and evaluation. The FPPTAP was designed to
benefit from the above experiences by establishing a low-profile, decentralized,
demand-driven facility, and allocating funds on a formula basis, ensuring both consistency,
adequate technical assistance, and fairness.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.25  National Forestry Project (PFN). The National Forestry Project, a pilot operation
that was implemented by MARNDR between 1982 and 1989, was financed jointly by IDA
(Credit 1257-HA, with US$4.0 million disbursed), the Government (US$0.75 million), the
International Research Center (US$0.3 million), and the French Agency for Voluntary
Services (US$0.6 million). The objectives of the project were: (a) the strengthening of
the MARNDR's Forest Service; (b) education and training in forestry; (c) species trials for
the production of woodfuel on 3 50 ha; (d) pilot plantations for woodfuel production and a
trial to determine the production impact of protection measures for the local savanna
vegetation; (e) partial management of the Pine Forest on 5,750 ha; (f) promotion of
improved cooking stoves for wood and charcoal; and (g) the preparation of a large-scale
follow-up project. Policy objectives included: (a) building up the operational capacity of
the Forest Service, including a strong extension element; (b) enacting and applying new
forestry legislation; and (c) developing economically viable reforestation and forest
management practices. The project was also to design a long-term plan for forestry
development.
1.26  The project had a slow start, suffered from shortages of counterpart funds and
political disturbances, and to complete the project, the IDA credit had to be extended by
two and a half years. Nevertheless, the project largely achieved its quantitative targets,
except for the primary education component, and the introduction of improved cooking
stoves. It was less successful in realizing its policy objectives. The enactment of new
forest legislation and the preparation of a long-term forestry development plan did not
materialize. Extension activities were limited to a partial census and some land leases in
the Pine Forest. Certain technical results, in particular those relating to the pilot
plantations, require further confirmation. In particular, the pilot plantings faced opposition
and intrusions from the local populations, and suffered from cattle damage and erratic
rainfall. The lessons identified in the Project Completion Report for this project include:



-11-
(a) a strategy for institutional development should be in place before project
implementation; (b) the Government should commit adequate budgetary resources for the
financing of operational costs; (c) a clear national forestry policy should be spelled out
before the project; (d) Government should be committed to enact and apply new forest
legislation; and (e) a purely technocratic approach to forestry development, i.e., without
due consideration of the social dimension and involvement of people, is not feasible in
Haiti. The Project integrates these lessons by assuring adequate funding and priority for
institutional development and by establishing a permanent co-management system for each
national reserve that would offer voice and authority to key actors with vested interests in
the reserves.
1.27 Forestry and Environment Protection Project (FEPP). This project was intended
as a follow-up operation to the IDA-supported Forestry Development Project
(Cr. 1257-HA), which closed on December 31, 1989. The project was to provide
technical and financial support for: (a) institutional strengthening of the MARNDR's
Directorate of Natural Resources, through improvement of administrative facilities,
staffing and operations, management and training; (b) specific forestry and environment
programs, including the provision of agroforestry extension services to some
16,000 farmers through contracts with NGOs; and (c) promotion by the BME of more
efficient charcoal stoves to conserve wood fuels. The project objectives were to increase
agroforestry productivity, maintain and develop timber resources in the Pine Forest
Reserve, reduce the domestic demand for charcoal, and to develop the institutions,
technology and approach to agroforestry which would lay the groundwork for future
projects in the sector. Although the project never became effective, due to the crisis in
1991, the major lesson learned was that the activities proposed for the project were and
remain vital to Haiti's sustainable economic development, and now to Haiti's immediate
reconstruction needs, especially those activities directly targeted to the rural poor.
D. Government Objectives and Strategy
1.28 The Government. Upon its reestablishment, the Constitutional Government
presented a coherent economic and social rehabilitation program to face the problems and
challenges ahead, and the international donor community confirmed support for the
Government's reform efforts. Apart from the preparation of the rehabilitation program,
these efforts have included the preparation of parliamentary elections, an agreement with
the IMF on a stand-by arrangement, and the initiation of economic policy reforms. At the
January 1995 Consultative Group (CG) meeting held in Paris, and again at the CG
Follow-up meeting in Port-au-Prince in May 1995, donors pledged and confirmed over
US$1.5 billion in support of the Government's efforts. Since that time, the Government
has held legislative elections and the new president Mr. Rene Preval began his term on
February 7, 1995.
1.29 The new Government's stated development objectives are: (a) recovery and
sustained growth; (b) poverty alleviation, and improved access to social services; and



-12-
(c) agricultural reform and environmental rehabilitation. While these overall objectives are
similar to those of other developing countries, it is the present emergency situation and the
profound changes required which present the extraordinary challenge in the case of Haiti.
The new Government under President Preval has committed itself to redefine its role in
the economy. In spring 1996 it announced a comprehensive privatization program and
economic policy reforms to establish a sound macroeconomic and incentive framework
conducive to private sector development. High priority will be given to increase
Government capacity to deliver essential basic services in health and education,
cooperating with NGOs active in those fields. Finally, it assigned a very high priority to
agricultural reform and to address the country's severely deteriorated environmental
conditions to sustain future growth.
1.30  To achieve its development objectives the Government is committed to
fundamentally refocus the role of the state. It aims to establish a framework of good
governance by increasing its accountability and strengthening its administration, and
setting up a functioning judiciary. Further core aspects are a comprehensive civil service
reform and a continued decentralization process. This transition is planned in a process of
national reconciliation and respect for democratic rule.
1.31   The Agriculture and Natural Resources Sector. Government goals in this
sector include: (a) enhancing food security; (b) reducing the on-going process of natural
resource degradation (soil, water, and forests); (c) developing agroindustries and growth
of agro-exports; (d) improving land tenure security; and (e) strengthening sector
institutions. Activities programmed for the sector include: (a) MARNDR reorganization
and decentralization of roles and responsibilities to regional representatives;
(b) establishment of a work program and research agenda for the recently created National
Agrarian Reform Institute (INARA), with IDA and IDB technical and financial assistance;
(c) expansion of current irrigation infrastructure and the creation of new systems; (d) other
projects to curb the pace of natural resource degradation; (e) a program to expand the
provision of rural financial services; (f) establishment of a development fund that would
finance productive rural projects; (g) technical assistance and credit to agroindustries and
rural micro-enterprises; and (h) reform of policies governing natural resource management
and national park protection.
E. Donor Strategies and Activities
1.32  Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank Group's assistance to
Haiti involves a two-pronged approach. In the very short-term, IDA has provided
emergency financing for the Government's Emergency Economic Reconstruction Program
(EERP), and has worked quickly to reactivate its earlier ongoing projects in the country.
Particular attention is being paid to aid coordination and ensuring that donor efforts are
complementary rather than duplicative. Major projects in the health, urban power,
industrial infrastructure, urban water, and major road sectors have been reactivated. With
a view to the medium-term, IDA is working with the Government on the formulation of



- 13-
strategies for structural reforms essential to reviving economic growth, poverty alleviation
and environmental rehabilitation. Projects in this category include, primarily, major
structural adjustment and technical assistance credits. Ongoing IDA projects relevant to
the proposed project include the Economic and Social Funid (ESF), which finances the
construction of socially-beneficial civil works, primarily in urban areas, and the
Employment Generation Project (EGP), which provides temporary jobs for infrastructure
rehabilitation and water management in both rural and urban areas.
1.33   Agriculture, Forestry and Environmental Protection. Approximately
20 percent of total ODA investment in Haiti since the 1970s has been in these sectors.
Current levels of funding approximate past levels. Major donors in these sectors include
the IDB, the UNDP, CFD, USAID and CIDA. The IDB has a strategic focus on
irrigation and water management. It has reactivated a number of major irrigation projects
and is in the process of planning additional interventions in the water sector. In addition,
the IDB is financing a major pig repopulation program and is considering future credits in
rural finance, rural development funds, and agricultural institution reform. USAID has
long had a strategic focus on promoting sustainable hillside production. It has several
ongoing projects combining resource conservation and peasant production, including the
aforementioned PLUS project and a project to revitalize coffee production and marketing.
Since 1987 USAID has also financed an integrated development and park protection
project in the Pic Macaya area. Financing for this project, along with all field activities,
will terminate in September 1996. USAID also funds a project to promote
micro-enterprises in rural areas, and a seed multiplication project. USAID is also the
major sponsor of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) currently being
prepared by the MDE. The NEAP is a major Government activity toward assessing and
prioritizing environmental issues and actions in Haiti. The World Bank has also recently
approved a Institutional Development Grant to the MDE to support NEAP preparation.
The UNDP funds a variety of small projects in the sector including several
regionally-targeted soil conservation projects implemented by MARNDR and MDE, a
project to deliver agricultural inputs, and a project to enhance community water
management. In addition, UNDP funds a separate project unit (the Environmental
Coordination and Monitoring Unit) that monitors environmental indicators, provides
technical assistance to the MDE and manages a small projects fund for environmental
projects. The MFC funds a wide variety of projects in the sector. These include:
improved seed production; improvement of small irrigation systems, pig repopulation,
agricultural sector studies. In addition, they manage a small grants fund for productive
projects. CIDA similarly funds a variety of projects. These include, the distribution of
agricultural inputs and tools, labor intensive civil works, and a project that seeks to
strengthen Haitian producers cooperatives.



-14-
2. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.1   The proposed project is an updated version of the defunct Forestry and
Environmental Protection Project (FEPP) (CR. 2301-HA) that was approved by the IDA
Board in 1991 and withdrawn March 1, 1994 during the military regime. An
Implementation Completion Note (Report No. 13816) was issued on December 27, 1994.
The project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy. The protection and
rehabilitation of critical ecosystems is a high priority of the Government as expressed in
the draft Policy Framework Paper, the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
(Cr. 2670-.HA) and the draft program under the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, as
well as repeated Government requests. The proposed project is the first major action to
respond to Government requests to protect Haiti's remaining environmental resources
among all major donors. It is also the first step in the World Bank's pledge (stated at the
December 1994 Paris Consultative Group meetings and included in the draft CAS) to
prepare projects to protect and rehabilitate the environment. The Government of Haiti has
received a US$ 2.0 million Project Preparation Facility to finance urgent activities to
protect threatened Haitian ecosystems.
2.2    Within the Government's and Bank's strategy, the proposed Forest and Park
Protection Technical Assistance Project would emphasize protection services for national
parks and forest reserves, and agricultural support services, including agroforestry, to
farmers in and around the protected areas. It is expected that these efforts would generate
viable solutions for larger-scale investment in reforestation and natural resource
management. IDA's role in the proposed project, and indeed the rationale for IDA's
continued involvement with forestry and environmental concerns, is to assist the
Government in designing and implementing consistent policies, institutional strengthening,
and field operations which make maximum use of the scarce human resources
(Government, NGOs and rural workers/farmers) to tackle natural resource issues
countrywide. The project is designed to attract other donor agencies and to provide an
institutional framework within which to implement the TFAP and National Environmenta!
Action Plan. The project concept is based on the collective experience from the
IDA-supported Pilot Forestry Project, the NGO agroforestry and soil conservation
projects financed by bilateral agencies, the Government's strategy for natural resource
development, and Haiti's National Energy Plan (in preparation).
B. Objectives and Summary Description
Objectives
2.3   The. overall objective of the project is to start the initial phase of intervention for
the protection of critical remnants of Haiti's forest ecosystems and for slowing the pace of
degradation of Haiti's natural resources. The project would establish the institutional,



-15-
policy and financial foundation for the Government of Haiti to sustain protection of critical
ecosystems on a nation-wide basis. The three specific objectives of the project are to:
(a)   provide institutional support to MDE and related services within
MARNDR for strengthening the Government's institutional capacity to
develop, monitor and enforce a national forest and parks protection system;
(b)   initiate key activities to protect and manage the La Visite and Pic Macaya
National Parks and the Pine Forest National Forest Reserve; and
(c)   reduce pressure on the above-mentioned protected areas by increasing
on-farm productivity and off-farm employment options, and enhancing the
management capacity of local organizations in the buffer areas of the three
targeted areas.
2.4   The project would achieve its objectives by financing technical assistance, technical
and policy studies, training, equipment, limited civil works, and incremental operating
costs required to implement the components described below:
Project Description
2.5   Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Reform (US$7.5 million
estimated total cost). This component would enable Government (MDE) to start
developing the policy and administrative framework required to undertake its role of
normative and regulatory functions in the area of natural resources protection, while
simultaneously reorganizing and strengthening the relevant implementation entities to
perform their role and functions. Support would be provided to a Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) within MDE including personnel and operating expenditures for the
coordination, administration and overall supervision of the execution of the project.
Within this component, project financing would include provision for a series of studies to
define procedures and mechanisms to implement new subsector strategies and policies
related to natural resources protection. This component would also provide basic
conservation training to forest and park technicians and guards, external short courses for
the section heads and unit chiefs of the Forest Resources and Park Services from
MARNDR, and training for the Advisory Committees (to be established under the project)
in reserve and parks management and organization. Technical assistance would be
provided according to project demands and would be coordinated by the PCU.
2.6   Component 2: Support for the Management of Forest and National Parks
(US$3.9 million estimated total cost). This component would provide support for: (i) the
development of a sustainable management system for the existing Pine Forest National
Reserve and the strengthening of Forestry Services (SRF) and; (ii) the protection and
sustainable management of the Pic Macaya and La Visite National Parks Reserve, and the
strengthening of Parks Services (SPNS). Specific management activities include
identifying and delimiting reserve boundaries, establishing a sustainable land management



-16-
plan within the Forest Reserve, preserving vital ecological zones, establishing and
coordinating local Advisory Committees for each national park and reserve, promoting
ecotourism, preparing and executing reserve management plans, conducting social and
biophysical surveys of reserves; and monitoring biophysical change and project impact.
While no cutting would be carried out in the national parks, in the multi-purpose national
forest reserve of Foret des Pins, the project envisages non-commercial thinning operations
and Christmas tree production, the benefits of which would be distributed to local
communities. No commercial logging would be executed during the life of the project.
No resettlement is planned or envisioned during the life of the project. Nonetheless, the
Government has agreed to prepare resettlement plans in accordance with Bank guidelines
in the event that it chooses to relocate landholders.
2.7    Component 3: Support for Buffer Zone Development (US$9.1 million
estimated total cost). This component would seek to reduce pressure on the reserves,
diversify sources of local household incomes and enhance environmental benefits in the
buffer areas. This component would support: (i) provision of agroforestry, soil
conservation and agriculture extension services to farmers living in and near the three
reserves in order to rehabilitate natural resources and boost on-farm productivity;
(ii) provision of technical assistance and financing for assisting the farming community in
the buffer zones with the design and implementation of small investment subprojects
through a participatory planning process. Under this subcomponent, a Buffer Zone Small
Investment Facility (BZSIF) would provide financing, on a matching grant basis, for
productive micro-development projects (e.g., beekeeping, small livestock, produce
storage, transformation and marketing) proposed by producer groups to increase incomes
and off-farm employment opportunities, as well as priority community investments for
sustainable natural resources management (e.g., gully protection, rainfed terraces, tree
plantation on marginal lands). Management of the BZSIF subcomponent would be
contracted out to FAES3 (or any suitable organization). Eligibility criteria for the BZSIF
would require that small investment subprojects: (i) are identified by rural communities
through a participatory process and included in a coherent local development plan; (ii) are
explicitly oriented to strengthening producer groups, and; (iii) are oriented to small-scale
rural productive activities, and/or to improve natural resources management. Grant
approval would be made by the Local Grant Evaluation Committees (LGEC) according to
pre-established, social, environmental and economic criteria. Detailed BZSIF eligibility
criteria and financing procedures, as well as the composition, roles and functions of the
LGEC are described in the Management Services Contract with the implementing
organization.
3     FAES is the Government executing agency of the on-going Economic and Social Fund project
(ESF). A follow-up ESF II is under preparation.



-17-
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
3.1    The estimated cost of the five-year project, exclusive of duties and taxes, is
US$22.5 mnillion equivalent, of which US$21.5 million would be financed by a IDA credit
and the remainder by the Government of Haiti, participating NGOs and beneficiaries.
During project preparation, mechanisms for increasing direct contributions from NGOs
and local beneficiaries would be explored, particularly with reference to buffer zone
development activities. Project costs were based on January 1996 prices. Because of
macroeconomic instability and, until recently, an administered exchange rate, costs are
presented in US dollars; US dollars have been used for costing all off-shore procurement
and consultancy services; local costs have been converted at the exchange rate of
G 15/US$1. Physical contingencies have been applied as follows: 15 percent for civil
works, and 5 percent for all other cost items, except salaries, for which no physical
contingency has been included. Price contingencies are based on the Bank's projections
for intemational, estimated at an average of 3.9 percent per annum for the period 1990 to
2000. The Government would continue to provide the staff required for the
implementation of the project that is already from the previous project and financed from
MARNDR's regular budget. The project's total annual recurrent costs after year five of
the project, in constant values, are estimated at US$0.7 million per year, including
0.5 million for salaries and 0.2 million for operating costs. Total project costs and project
financing are shown respectively in Tables I and 2.
Table 1 - Project Costs Summary
(in US$ millions including contingencies)
Component            Local   Foreign   Ttl% Foreign    Total Base
_______________________________________C o sts
Institutional Strengthening    2.9      3.4       6.2       54           32
Forest and Parks Management    1.9      1.4       3.3       42            17
Buffer Zone Development        2.9      4.9       7.8       63           40
Project Preparation Facility   0.9      1.1       2.0       57            10
Total BASELINE COSTS           8.5      10.8     19.3       56           100
- Physical Contingencies      0.6      0.6       1.2       51            6
- Price Contingencies         0.9      1.1      2.0        56            10
Total PROJECT COSTS           10.0      12.5     22.5       56           116



- 18-
B. Project Financing
Table 2 - Financing Plan
(US$ millions, including contingencies)
Component            GOH  [   IDA         Beneficiaries     Total
Institutional Strengthening   0.1       7.4                          7.5
Forest and Parks Management   0.3       3.6                          3.9
Buffer Zone Development       0.1       8.5           0.5            9.1
Project Preparation Facility  0.0       2.0                          2.0
Total                         0.5       21.5          0.5           22.5
Percent Financing             2%        96%           2%            100%
4. PROJ1ECT IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING
A. Project Coordination, Management and Implementation
4.1    Overall Coordination. The Government implementing agency would be the
Ministry of Environment (MDE). MDE would establish a Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU) under its General Directorate to assist the Ministry in coordinating and
administering the overall project implementation. The PCU would comprised an
experienced Coordinator, an Administrator (assisted himself by a procurement expert, and
an accountant), a Reporting and Evaluation Specialist, and sufficient support-level staff,
including a trilingual secretary (Creole-French-English). Except for the management of
the BZSIF, a Procurement Agent would be contracted for handling all aspects of
procurement for the project in close collaboration with the relevant executing public
entities. The Agent would operate in a manner consistent with the institutional
strengthening objectives of the project and work towards enabling the PCU to eventually
carry out all procurement tasks. The PCU would coordinate project implementation,
project procurement, and technical assistance; and prepare work programs, budgets and
progress reports. This small unit would coordinate project activities to be implemented by
MARNDR line agencies (SRF, SPNS, DFPC, CRDA) through an inter-ministerial
arrangement, and by contracted NGOs and other entities. Under a management services
contract, FAES (or the selected private firm) will be responsible for the procurement of
works, goods, and services for the management of the BZSIF. The PCU would review
the plans and budgets of contracted agencies or entities, and approve disbursements.
4.2   Detailed composition of this unit, minimum qualifications and appointment periods
for each staff were reviewed at appraisal. Mainly, the Coordinator would lead the unit,
and be responsible through the General Director for contractual arrangements between



-19-
MDE and the executing entities, and for co-signing disbursement and/or expense
authorizations along with the Administrator. Under the Coordinator's supervision, the
Administrator would be responsible for establishing and monitoring the unit's
administrative and accountant systems, and would co-sign, along with the Administrator,
disbursement and expense authorizations. He would be assisted by an experimented
Accountant for book keeping and daily routine operations and by a Procurement Specialist
to ensure compliance with the agreed procurement procedures. Also under the
Coordinator's supervision, the Reporting and Evaluation Specialist would be responsible
for establishing the data collection, information management and reporting systems
necessary to monitor the project implementation and management.
4.3   During negotiations, Government agreement was obtained on the following: (a) to
establish the PCU prior to project effectiveness and to staff this unit with professional and
support personnel satisfactory to IDA; (b) project implementation and financing would be
on the basis of detailed annual work programs and budgets that would be prepared by the
project's implementing services or entities and compiled by the PCU; (c) the PCU would
submit to IDA the proposed annual work programs and budgets no later than September I
of each year for IDA's review and comment; and (d) PCU would advise IDA of any
subsequent addition or modifications in the program content, cost and scheduling and seek
IDA approval.
Project Implementation
4.4   Institutional Strengthening Component. During implementation, the project
would provide national and international short-term consultant services to identify and
engage as needed specialized technical support. In addition, as mentioned earlier, a
Procurement Agent would be contracted to help the PCU on procurement matters. The
project mid-term review would determine the need for further support on procurement.
4.5   Natural Reserve Management Component. An inter-ministerial arrangement
would be established between MDE and MARNDR for the technical supervision and
management of the forest and parks environmental protection component. Specifically,
the Forest Resource Service would supervise and implement activities in and around the
Pine Forest while the Park Service would supervise and implement activities in and around
the parks. The project would finance provisions of the material and human resources to
strengthen the two services (SRF and SPNS) and those of their sections that implement
project supported programs; particularly, the heads of SRF and SPNS would benefit
assistance from respectively a Conservation Specialist and a Forest Management
Specialist. These sections already exist but are understaffed and underfunded.
Implementation of activities under the training and technical assistance sub-component of
the technology generation and transfer sub-components would be attributed through
similar implementation arrangements to the Directorate of Training (DFPC) and the
Center for Research and Agricultural Development (CRDA) under the MARNDR, and/or
through contracts to private institutions and organizations.



-20-
4.6   Buffer Zone Development Component. Supervision and coordination of the
conservation and development extension services component also would be delegated
through similar arrangements to CRDA. The inter-ministerial arrangement would be
established between MDE and CDRA to provide those services. Private institutions
and/or NGOs would be contracted to provide technical assistance in agricultural
production and soil conservation to farmers living in the targeted areas. MDE would also
enter into a Management Services Contract with FAES, or any other qualified and
experienced private institution or organization, for the establishment and management of
the Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility. The maximum size of eligible subprojects
under the BZSIF will not exceed US$100,000.
B. Procurement
4.7   The Government of Haiti is revising its procurement procedures. The GOH would
agree to carry out all procurement financed by IDA for this project according to Bank
guidelines. The PCU would be adequately staffed to manage procurement. In addition, it
has been agreed that a procurement agent would be contracted during the first years of the
project to process procurement work. For the management of the BZSIF, FAES, given its
capacity and experience in managing procurement for the ongoing Economic and Social
Fund project, would have full responsibility for all aspects of procurement for subprojects
to be financed under the BZSIF. In the case of any other private institution or
organization, their selection criteria would include in particular their capacity for managing
procurement. All procurement of goods and works will be carried out according to the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement" dated January 1995. Bank-issued standard bidding
documents will be used for procurement through LIB.
4.8   Works, e.g., the rehabilitation of the access and internal roads for the La Visite
National Park and in the Pine Forest Reserve and buildings in the national park, office
building rehabilitation, nurseries and guard houses, and works for subprojects to be
financed in the Buffer zone areas under the BZSIF estimated to cost less than US$50,000
per contract and in total not more than US$1.0 million would be procured under lump
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. Because of the minor scope of
these works and their scattered location, they would not attract international contractors.
Within the scope of maintenance of the rehabilitated access or internal roads and buildings,
and of some subprojects to be financed in the Buffer zone areas under the BZSIF, direct
contracting with local community organizations on the basis of reference unit prices and
standardized quantities will be permitted for contracts valued at less than US$50,000 but
not exceeding US$2.Omillion, in aggregate.
4.9   Vehicles and Equipment. There will be no contracts for goods over
US$100,000, thus no ICB is expected. Vehicles and equipment (including in particular,
office equipment and computers) estimated to cost between US$50,000 and US$100,000
for an aggregate of US$900,000 would be procured through LIB in lots of at least



-21-
US$50,000, among suppliers with service and maintenance facilities in Haiti. Equipment
contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each would be procured through
international shopping. National shopping procedures would be applied for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$25,000. Shopping procedures would also be used for
purchases of goods estimated to cost US$1.2 million in total for subprojects financed
under the BZSIF. The use of national shopping will be limited to an aggregate contract
value of US$840,000 and the use of international shopping to an aggregate value of
US$1,260,000 for the project (including the BZSIF).
4.10  Consultant services, training and studies. All consultanis services, including
individual consultants, consulting firms and NGOs providing extension services will be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants" dated August 1981. Such consultants contracts will be based on standard
forms of contract issued by the Bank, or, as appropriate, on other standard forms
acceptable to the Bank. Financing for training tours and fellowships will be based on a
detailed program to be submitted to IDA for approval.
4.11  Management Services Contract. The Management Services contract to be
established with FAES, or any other qualified and experienced private institution or
organization to be selected on a competitive basis, for the establishment and management
of the Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility would be submitted to IDA for its approval.
The detailed procurement procedures for subprojects under the BZSIF would follow
Bank's procurement procedures for works and goods as described earlier.
4.12 Review by IDA. All LIB contracts would be subject to prior IDA review of
bidding documents, bid evaluation, award proposals and final contracts. Because of the
contracting of the Procurement Agent, prior review of all consultant contracts and
selection processes would only be required for contracts with firms exceeding US$50,000
and with individuals exceeding US$30,000. IDA prior review would also be required for
the terms of reference for all single source selection of consulting firms and all critical
assignments. All other contracts will be subject to post-review. These arrangements
would result in prior review by the Bank of an estimated 50 percent of the value of all
IDA-financed contracts. In addition, the Bank's prior approval would be required for all
subprojects under the BZSIF which benefit from grants of US$50,000 or more and all
BZSIF subprojects would be subject to interim evaluation of project operation by the
BZSIF managers, as well as field visits by PCU staff as part of the BZSIF monitoring and
evaluation system.
C. Disbursement
4.13  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over about five years, starting in late
December 1996. The formal Credit Closing Date would be December 31, 2001. IDA
would disburse at a rate of 100 percent for all project expenditures except those
contributed by counter-part funds, implementing entities or organizations, and the



-22 -
beneficiaries themselves. Annex A, Table 8-1 shows the allocation of Credit proceeds.
The estimated disbursement schedule is presented in Table 3.
Table 3 - Estimated Disbursements
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY           19974        1998         1999       2000        2001
--------------------------------- (S million) --------------------------
Annual            4.6          4.3         4.7         4.6         3.3
Cumulative                     8.9         13.6        18.2       21.5
4.14   The Borrower would establish a Special Account in US dollars in the Central Bank
of Haiti or in any commercial bank acceptable to IDA, with an authorized allocation of
US$1.3 million, equal to about four months' estimated average disbursements. However,
the initial deposit to the Special Account would be limited to US$500,000 until
US$3.5 million has been disbursed from the Credit Account when additional deposits may
be requested up to the amount of the initial deposit has been withdrawn, whichever comes
first. In addition to documentation requirements indicated in the following paragraph,
replenishment application will include monthly bank statements showing account activity
since the last application and a reconciliation statement. Because of the critical nature of
effective project start-up, including the launching of natural reserve protection activities,
retroactive financing would be provided for up to 10 percent of the IDA Credit for project
activities incurred after May 15, 1996, but no more than one year from date of signing.
Initial natural reserve protection, and information campaigns are being financed under a
$2.0 million PPF (P-959-0-HA).
4.15   All disbursements that do not have a prior review requirement would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs), including incremental operating cost. Use
of SOEs for goods and works would be limited to contracts costing less than US$50,000.
Use of SOEs for consultant services would be limited to contracts with consulting firms or
individuals costing US$50,000 or US$30,000 or less, respectively. Information required
for the SOEs would be available in the project data base, updated monthly by the PCU.
All supporting documentation would be made available to IDA for review.
D. Accounts and Audit
4.16 The PCU will maintain a separate project account to reflect all project expenditure.
This account would be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
audited report would be submitted to IDA no later than four months after the end of the
fiscal year. Expenditures related to the audits would be eligible for financing under the
4     Including refund of PPF and retroactive financing of up to US$2.5 million for eligible
expenditures incurred after May 15, 1996.



-23 -
Credit. The audit reports would convey the auditor's opinion and comments as necessary
on the methodology employed in the compilation of the SOEs, their accuracy, the
relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal
agreements, and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the above,
and the status of the special account. The TOR for the auditors would also include a
specific analysis of compliance with procurement procedures, including physical audits as
appropriate. Assurances were given during negotiations of above arrangements for
accounts and audits.
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.17  Continuous monitoring of the project activities would be carried out by the PCU
which would undertake corrective actions, advise the implementing units on necessary
actions, and inform higher levels of Government on project issues and performance. The
PCU would prepare quarterly progress reports on all activities carried out under the
project, based on the individual monthly reports from the contracted executing including
MARNDR agencies, NGOs and FAES. The quarterly progress reports would compare
actual project implementation with the approved Annual Work Programs and Budgets,
and highlight issues and problems of project implementation and outline possible
corrective actions, for comment by the Government, IDA and monitoring agencies, and
would be submitted to IDA no later than 60 days after the end of the quarter. The
performance monitoring indicators (Annex B) were agreed during negotiation.
4.18  In addition to the quarterly progress report, PCU would prepare according to the
Project Annual Operation Plan (AOP) a detailed annual report summarizing the
implementation status of the agreed on-going AOP. The AOP for the subsequent year
which would include all the necessary investment and operation budget provision should
be available for IDA consideration prior to September I of each year, and would be
reviewed during IDA annual review.
4.19  To assist in project implementation, IDA would carry out during the first two
years of implementation at least three review missions per year; the third one would
coincide with the project annual review. The annual review would take place by July 31
of each year beginning in 1997 with the participation of representatives of PCU, other
implementing entities or organizations, and IDA. The annual review would focus on
technical, financial, administrative and environmental aspects of the project; particular
attention would be paid to progress evaluation vis-a-vis implementation objectives and
impact indicators. This evaluation would serve as a basis for discussion about issues and
problems related to project management and implementation. The results of this annual
review would be an agreement on the next annual work program and on required
corrective actions to address those problems or any major change in the general context
during project implementation.



-24 -
4.20  The Government, with assistance from independent consultants, would carry out a
Mid-Term Review of on project performance, the results of which would provide the basis
for necessary adjustments in project design and funding allocation. In addition to all the
areas covered by the annual review, the mid-term review would focus on compliance to
the action program, including: (a) institutional structure and administrative performance
of the MDE; (b) progress achieved in reforming and enforcing sector policies;
(c) effectiveness of technical assistance provided by the project; (d) experience with
environmental impact assessment of sub-projects; (e) assessment of the need for further
support on procurement through the Procurement Agent; and (f) preparation of steps
necessary to establish sustainable financial mechanisms for protecting critical forest
ecosystems and parks in Haiti. It was agreed during negotiations that the mid-term
evaluation would be completed by March 31, 1999. To accomplish this: (a) independent
consultants to assist in the evaluation would be hired by October 1, 1998; and (b) the draft
report would be available for review by IDA by June 1999. As a standard requirement of
IDA lending, the Borrower shall also prepare a post-Project Implementation Plan at the
end of the project investment period.
5. PROJECT ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
5.1   The Forest and National Park Management and Buffer Zone Development
Components, representing 64 percent of project baseline costs (excluding project
preparation costs), would generate significant on-and off-site benefits. The Forest and
National Park Management Component, by administering the La Visite and Pic Macaya
National Parks and the Foret des Pins National Reserve, would protect valuable forest
ecosystems, contain the degradation of forest resources and safeguard the country's
eco-tourism potential. In addition, these activities would yield important downstream
off-site benefits including greater efficiency in irrigation system and a reduction in flood
related damages. The Buffer Zone Development Component, by increasing agricultural
productivity, diversifying income sources, and generating employment options, as well as
enhancing local natural resource management capabilities, would improve the welfare of
the rural household, conserve natural resources and reduce pressures for encroachment in
the protected areas.
Forest and National Park Management Component
5.2    On-site benefits. Within the protected areas, three main categories of benefits are
likely to be generated: preservation of biodiversity, recreational/tourist benefits, and
harvest of forest products. Preservation of biodiversity. The three protected areas, and
particularly the Pic Macaya and La Visite National Parks, are important natural habitats
because of their genetic diversity, including many species endemic to the area and few
such ecosystems remain in Hispaniola. Because of its altitude range, the Macaya area
supports mature broad-leaved forests as well as cloud forest, thus creating numerous



-25 -
micro-catchments with a rich diversity of species. Of the nearly 500 flora recorded in the
Macaya, about a third are endemic to Hispaniola and 15 percent to the Macaya area.
Aside from its rich diversity of birds, the area is also a wintering area for numerous species
from North America. Both of the surviving land mammals of Hispaniola are found in the
Macaya area. The La Visite area, containing hardwood forest on the steep slopes and pine
forest on the central plateau, has over 308 species of vascular plants, including 90 species
(29 percent) endemic to Hispaniola and 36 (11 percent) endemic to the Massif de la Selle.
In addition, over 20 species of butterflies, 45 species of land mollusks, at least 12 species
of amphibians, and 67 species of birds are reported in the area of the proposed park. Of
the 21 endemic bird species on Hispaniola, 17 (81 percent) are found inside the park area.
5.3    Recreational/tourist benefits. The parks and forest have considerable potential
for recreational use by Haitians and for attracting foreign tourists, especially in light of the
growing interest in eco-tourism worldwide. At present, there is no significant tourism in
either the La Visite or the Pic Macaya National Parks. But, based on the experience of
other countries in the region, notably Costa Rica, it is not unreasonable to expect that the
Pic Macaya National Park might attract several thousand tourists a year, as long as its
cloud forest habitat and its rich avifauna are preserved (the avifauna is probably
particularly important from a marketing viewpoint, since the town of Cayes is the
birthplace of ornithologist John Audubon). Revenue from modest entrance fees alone
would be sufficient to cover between 10 to 40 percent of the parks' recurrent costs.
5.4   The major economic benefits would be derived from the attraction of additional
tourism, leading to longer stays and higher per tourist expenditures. The experience of
Costa Rica suggests that both effects are likely to be significant. In Costa Rica, where
eco-tourism has been aggressively marketed, it is estimated that there are over 300,000
eco-tourists annually, each spending on average per visit more than US$1,000.
Conservatively, if earnings per tourist in Haiti were half the level observed in Costa Rica,
the present value of the resulting income stream would reach US$15.0 million. However,
since realizing this potential would require additional investments in roads, these benefits
are not considered in the economic analysis for this project.
5.5    Harvesting offorest products. While no cutting would be carried out in the
national parks, in the multi-purpose national forest reserve of Foret des Pins, the project
envisages thinning operations and Christmas tree production. No commercial logging
would be carried out during the life of the project. Thinning would generate wood
products with an approximate financial value of US$20,000 annually, while Christmas tree
production would, after eight years, generate about US$14,000 annually. The benefits
from these activities would be distributed to local communities. The present value of
these income streams is about US$0.3 million. In the longer term, after the forest
management plans have been developed, some parts of the forest might be zoned for
sustainable commercial forestry. Many products are currently harvested from the project
areas, including fuel wood, fodder (both by collection and by direct grazing of animals),
bwa gra (resinous sticks used to Lght charcoal fires), fruit, and various herbs for medicinal



-26-
or aromatic purposes. The project would assess which of these activities could be
continued on a sustainable basis.
5.6    Off-site benefits. The off-site benefits would be directed to the rural communities
living in the downstream areas. These benefits would stem from an improvement in
efficiency of existing irrigation systems, lower irrigation O&M costs, and a mitigation of
farm losses due to flood damage. The three protected areas are near the summits of
mountain ranges: the Pic Macaya on the Massif de la Hotte and La Visite and Foret des
Pins on the Massif de la Selle. Deforestation in these mountainous areas has already
caused considerable downstream damage resulting both from erosion and changes in local
hydrology. Sedimentation is causing considerable damage to irrigation capacity by silting
diversion dams and distribution canals. This problem is particularly marked in the Plaine
des Cayes, an important agricultural area downstream of the Pic Macaya National Park.
The heavy sediment loads of rivers originating in the project areas frequently result in
flooding and river course changes, both of which cause substantial damage to agriculture,
urban areas, and roads. In addition, increased run-off resulting from deforestation in the
upper reaches of the watersheds is increasing the incidence of flooding during the wet
season and water scarcities for both irrigation and domestic use during the dry season.
5.7    Greater irrigation efficiency. Estimated off-site benefits include those derived
from containment and/or reduction of the damage to irrigation systems. In the Macaya
area, under the without project scenario, it was assumed that, due to deterioration of the
irrigation systems, 5 percent of the irrigated area would be abandoned annually'. This was
compared against two project scenarios: one, in which the irrigated area would remain
constant; and the other, in which the irrigated area would be increased 1.25 percent
annually. On the basis of these conservative assumptions, the present value of the benefits
from reduced damage to irrigation resulting from project interventions would be about
US$4.0 million to US$20 million. These benefits refer only to those related to gains in
agricultural production and do not include those benefits related to reduced O&M costs.
5.8 Reduction in flood related damages. Areas downstream from the project sites
are subject to frequent flooding, causing loss of standing crops and damage to
infrastructure, including roads, irrigation canals, and houses. Floodings, which had been
relatively infrequent (occurring once every four to five years), now occur regularly twice a
year, effecting an increasingly larger area. The floodings in Camp-Perrin of June 1986,
one of the few floods for which there are historical records, was estimated to have caused
over US$1.0 million in damages to the embankments at Camp-Perrin and Cayes,
agricultural production, and buildings and other infrastructure.
5.9   The estimated cost of flood related damages is limited only to those costs related
to damages to infrastructure. An estimation of the cost of flood related crop damages was
not made as the actual damages depend upon many unknown factors including the type
and the intensity of the crops involved, as well as the depth and duration of the flooding.
5     Based on available historical records for the Avezac, Dubreuil and Torbeck irrigation systems in
the Plaine des Cayes.



-27 -
Therefore, this very conservative estimate of flood damage to infrastructure is about
US$0.5 million annually, having a present value of about US$2.5 million. In addition, it
would be reasonable to assume that, in the absence of the project, continued natural
degradation would increase flooding intensity and frequency and that the costs of the
associated damages could double. Assuming that such averted damages are reduced by
only by 25 percent over five years, the present value of these losses would be about
US$1.0 million. This, in addition to the benefits stemming from the containment of
damages, would yield a benefit with a present value between US$3.5 million and
US$6.0 million.
5.10  Additional benefits. Although not considered in the economic analysis, there are
additional benefits, related to hydroelectric power (HEP) and transportation facilities,
would stem from this component. Haiti has an acute power shortage, developing its HEP
potential will not be possible unless upstream degradation is substantially reduced. Some
of the planned buffer zone activities in the Pic Macaya area could help protect the
Cavaillon river watershed above the Saut Mathurine hydroelectric power (HEP) plant,
whose reservoir is being rapidly silted up. The Saut-Mathurine HEP plant has an installed
production capacity of 2.4MW. Other downstream benefits of arrested or reduced natural
resource degradation in the project include decreased silting in the port of Cayes, increase
in fish stocks and control of the intrusion of saltwater into coastal aquifers.
5.11   Component Costs6. The estimated present value of cost of this component,
including investment, recurrent and opportunity costs in foregone income, would be
US$6.0 million. Certain economic activities are expected to be curtailed as a result of
better park and reserve management, particularly some agricultural and logging activities.
Based on the farm models, the present value of foregone income resulting from the
diversion of agricultural lands would be about US$2.1 million. The value of forgone
logging income could not be estimated as reliable data on standing timber volume and the
logging trade are not available. However, the degree of degradation of the remaining
forests with reasonable road access would indicate that the economic value of forgone
logging income is likely to be insignificant.
5.12  Conclusions. To gauge the economic viability of the component, the present
value of the component's economic costs was compared against the present value of its
calculable benefits. The present value of the aggregated component costs, including
investment, recurrent and opportunity costs, of US$6.0 million was compared against the
present value of the quantified benefits. These benefits included: (i) increased efficiency
of existing irrigation systems, yielding an estimated present value of benefits of between
US$4.0 million and US$20 million; and (ii) the mitigation of flood related-damages,
resulting in an estimated present value of benefits of between US$3.5 million and
US$6.0 million. Combined present value of these benefits would range between
US$7.5 million to US$26 million.
All costs and benefits are expressed in present values, applying a 10 percent discount rate and, in
most cases, an infinite time horizon.



-28-
5.13  This exercise underestimates the expected economic benefits because:
(i) conservative assumptions were applied; and (ii) more importantly, the more substantial
benefits, such as the conservation of the biodiversity and the potential for tourism, were
not included. Nevertheless, even the benefits at the lower end of this conservative range
are sufficient to justify the project investments, and the present value of the benefits at the
upper end of the range significantly exceed the present value of the total costs.
Buffer Zone Development Component
5.14  The Buffer Zone Development Component would support Technology Generation
and Transfer activities and the Buffer Zone Development Facility. The Technology
Generation and Transfer activities would benefit over 7,400 farm households by increasing
agricultural productivity and income. Project-supported extension would introduce and
promote boundary tree planting to about 4,700 households, soil conservation methods to
approximately 2,000 households, and the adoption of appropriate farm technologies to
about 740 households. Farm model analysis indicated that the net marginal household
income gain would be about 23 percent from boundary tree plantings; 39 percent from the
application of soil conservation practices; and 60 percent from the adoption of appropriate
agricultural technologies. These interventions would increase average farm income by an
estimated US$475. Over a ten year time horizon, the internal rate of return (IRR) of these
activities would be 9 percent with a 50 percent beneficiary coverage, 27 percent with a
75 percent coverage and 41 percent with a 100 percent coverage.
5.15  In addition to these financial benefits, project-supported agricultural extension
services would provide significant economic benefits by introducing natural resource
management practices essential to arresting environmental degradation and increasing
productivity. By increasing rural household income, the project would relieve the need for
rural households to encroach in the protected areas.
5.16 Of the US$2.7 million allocated for the BZSIF, US$1.6 million would fund
income-generating activities, US$0.8 million would finance conservation grants and
0.3 million would support technology generating activities. The beneficiary
demand-driven income-generating activities are expected to benefit more than 18,000 rural
households. Based on rural household surveys, these investments would likely include
grain storage, agricultural marketing and processing. The Facility would increase rural
household's incomes and diversify their income sources. According to farm model
analysis, the estimated additional income to be derived from typical investments would be
US$50 per household. Table I presents typical income-generating investments to be
financed by the Facility, with the expected household income increment attributable to the
investment.



-29 -
Table 4 - Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility
Expected Net Increase in Rural Household Income from Typical Small-Scale Income
Generating Investments
Cost           Beneficiary Households     Average Household
Type              (US$)                   (No.)              Income Increment
Community Grain
Storage                 11,000                   77                        40
Farm group Grain
Storage                  1,000                    8                        50
Farn
Marketing                1,300                    4                       150
Agnrcultural
Production               2,000                   12                       100
Agncultural
Processing               1 ,000                  1 2                       50
5.17  Beneficiary demand driven financing facilities need time to "start-up" - time to
introduce potential beneficiaries to the procedures for accessing the Facility. Therefore,
projected disbursements for Facility -supported income-generating activities would be
13 percent for the first two years of project implementation. In each of the remaining
project years, expected disbursements for these activities would increase considerably,
averaging 30 percent annually. For this reason, the IRR of these activities would be
18 percent over a five year time horizon, and increase to an estimated 79 percent over a
ten year time horizon.
B. Environmental Aspects
5.18   The project has been approved as Environmental Assessment Category "B."
It would have a positive impact on the protection of the protected areas and the
conservation of soil and forest resources in the surrounding areas. It will establish a Park
Service that will be able to identify and protect new reserves in the future, especially those
that are currently not well represented and it would identify financial mechanisms to
ensure adequate habitat protection in the future. Development activities in the buffer
zones would be carefully designed and monitored so as to not encourage in-migration.
The Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility would only finance those projects that passed
an environmental screening process, and no project would be considered that would be
likely to enhance the possibility of encroachment.
5.19  More specifically, the environmental impact of the project would be to: (a) reduce
natural resource degradation, in particular the decline in soil productivity, loss of land
suitable for agriculture and forestry, and water retention; (b) maintain the habitat for



-30-
unique forest ecosystems with rare or endangered species of flora and fauna, and for
human settlement; and (c) generate additional production on a sustained basis (fuelwood,
poles, fruits, food crops and fodder. Aside from some thinning operations in the Pine
Forest to enhance growth of the existing stands, no logging would be undertaken during
the implementation period of the project. Existing roads in the Pine Forest would be
maintained. Road access to the La Visite Park would be improved, but only through an
indirect route from the South, which because of its distance from Port-au-Prince would
not attract illegal logging.
C. Sustainability
5.20  Evaluations of investments in protected areas indicate that there are two common
constraints to achieving sustained impacts: insecure and insufficient financing, and
inadequate management. This project will provide adequate funding during the life of the
project and make concerted efforts towards establishing the Park (SPNS) and Forest
Resources (SRF) Services as efficient, well structured organizations that have the capacity
to plan, coordinate and evaluate technical operations. During the life of the project,
options for a sustainable financing mechanism will be explored to assure long-term funding
for recurrent protection costs, as well as incremental costs for complementary
conservation/sustainable use activities. Recommendations from this analysis could
constitute the basis for a future request to the GEF. The project will also support the
Government's recommendation to eventually establish an autonomous government agency
whose function would be to manage national protected areas. The autonomous structure
is advantageous for a number of reasons: (i) autonomous agencies have greater political
autonomy and programmatic flexibility than Ministerial Services; (ii) such agencies are
able to raise private funds and sign contracts with other agencies; and thus (iii) the
autonomous structure would enhance the Park Service's ability to attract private funds
and liase with civic organizations.
5.21   The issues of inadequate reserve management and sustained encroachment will be
addressed by providing income generating options for the poor in reserve buffer areas, and
by establishing representative and transparent Advisory Committees that are empowered
to assure local voice in reserve management decision, and equitable distribution of tangible
benefits from the reserves. In order to enhance the probability of sustaining the benefits
and behaviors generated by the household energy component, it will build on and improve
existing institutions, products and markets, rather than create new structures.
Interventions will be carefully designed so that all participants will be able to either earn
more money or save on fuel expenditures.



-31 -
D. Risks
5.22  The main risks of the project relate to: (i) uncertain political stability which may
impact on continued Government commitment to its declared development strategy,
project funding, and efficient management and functioning of the implementing agencies;
(ii) weak coordination and management capacity of central and local government and
private agencies to implement the project; and (iii) the "success" of buffer zones
development activities that could attract in-migration. To minimize the risks, the project's
objectives and scale of operations have been kept in line with the institutional reality;
management services contracts would be used with clear TORs, implementation schedules
and targets; activities in the buffer zones would be designed with and by the current local
residents to target current local residents; annual work programs and budgets would be
approved by IDA; and a mid-term review of the performance of the project would be used
to: (i) assess progress made on a technical point of view and to reach a long-term
financing mechanism for sustainable forest and parks management; (ii) recommend
adequate corrective measures; and (iii) redesign the project if required.
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out key actions detailed in
the implementation plan attached to the Project's Credit Agreement as a supplemental
letter. Other major agreements and assurances obtained during negotiations include that:
(i) the PCU would maintain adequate staff and/or recruit consultants with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA to carry out the project; (ii) competitive-based
contracts with private organizations and agreements with public agencies to provide
technical and management expertise would be on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
(iii) the implementation of the project would be on the basis of annual work programs and
budgets which would be acceptable to IDA; (iv) semi-annual progress reports would be
sent to IDA for review; (v) the carrying out of a mid-term evaluation of the project not
later than February 28, 1999, the results of which would provide the basis for necessary
adjustments in project design and funding allocation, as well as for ensuring a long-term
financing mechanism for forest and parks protection; (vi) in the event that the Government
chooses to relocate landholders from within Park boundaries, it would prepare a
resettlement plan in accordance to Bank guidelines prior to undertaking resettlement; and
(vii) a Special Event of Default, namely that any changes to the MDE Organic Law or the
Operational Manual that would materially and adversely affect the project, will constitute
an event of suspension of the credit.
6.2   Conditions of Effectiveness of the proposed credit would be that: (i) the PCU had
been established within MDE and the project coordinator appointed; (ii) the project
Operational Manual with terms and conditions acceptable to IDA had been adopted;
(iii) an interministerial arrangement had been signed between MDE and MARNDR
describing the technical responsibilities of MARNDR relevant entities, namely SRF,



-32-
SPNS, CRDA, and DFPC; and (iv) a Procurement Agent had been contracted with terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA.
6.3   Recommendation.  Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the
proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 15 million
(US$21.5 million equivalent) to the Republic of Haiti, repayable in 40 years, on standard
IDA terms.



ANNEX A
Cost and Financing Tables






llaiti
Assistance Technique pour la Protection des Pares et des ForEts
T'abledu 101. Project Preparationi Facility
coats Ditaillis
(US$ '000)
CoCits de Base                  Torauax Y Comnris Imnuiurevus
1997  1998  19i9  20&Q& 200l  Takal IQS  1997   8  1a9  2000  20l0   Ural
I. CoOts d-lnvestissement
A. Civil Works (Rehabilitation)
Electric Power Supplies /a                              20      -      -     -      -    20    20       -     -      -     -    20
Roads /b                                                40      -10    40                                        -              40
Water Supply /c                                          70     -      -     -      -    70    70       -     -      -     -    70
Buildings /d                                            160     -      -     -      -   160   160       -     -      -     -   160
Bridge Construction /e                                  _q      -            -        __1Q _  2Q   _          -   _        -    2Q
Sous Total Civil Works (Rehabilitation)                    310      -     -      -     -   310   li        -      -     -      -   310
B. Vehicles
1. Flat-bed truck repairs                               10      -      -     -      -    10    10       -     -      -     -    10
2. Motorcycles If                                         a     -      -     -      -     B      D      -     -      -     -      8
3. Pick-ups 6 Jeeps /9                                 192      -      -     -      -   192   192       -     -      -     -   192
4. Vehicle Rental /h                                     20     -      -                        20      -     -      -2
Sous Total Vehicles                                        230     -      -      -     -   230   230       -      -     -      -   230
C. Equipment
1. Computers /i                                         36      -      -     -      -    36    36       -     -      -     -    36
2. Software                                               a     -      -     -      -     Li            -     -      -     -      8
3. office Equipment                                      16     -      -      -     -    16    16       -     -      -     -    16
4. Generators /j                                         40     -      -     -      -    40    40       -     -      -     -    40
5. Inverters                                             12     -      -                 412    12                               12
6. Radio base stations /k                                10     -      -     -      -    10    10       -     -      -     -    10
7. Handheld Radios /1                                    10     -      -     -      -    10    10       -     -      -     -    10
8. Forest Inventory Equipment /m                         20     -      -     -      -    20    20       -     -      -     -    20
9. Miscellaneous field equipment /n                       5     -      -     -      -     5      5         -      -     -         S
10. Furniture and Appliances /o                         20      -   _ -             -    20   20        -     -0 _  - ..z
Soun Total Equipsent                                       177     -      -      -     - 177   177                                 177
D. Studien
1. Regulatory Framework & Forest Policy Study /p   110          -      -     -      -   110   110       -     -      -     -   110
2. Land Teniure Study /q                               125      -      -     -      -   125   125       -     -      -     -   125
3. Forest Inventory /r                                  50      -      -     -      -    50    50       -     -      -     -    so
4. Farm Lease Field surveying /s                         10                              10    10       -     -      -     -    10
S. Boundary Surveys & Demarcation /t                     31     -      -     -      -    31    31       -     -      -     -    11
6. Flora and Fauna Study Plan                            10     -      -     -      -    10    10       -     -      -     -    10
7. Mapping /u                                          l_-   l    i                                  _    -       -     -
Sous Total Studies                                         436      -                       136   436      -      -                436
E. Traininig
Participatory Park Management /v                        30      -      -     -      -    30    30       -     -      -     -    30
Management Committee Foriation /w                   ?.2         -Q                               Qf     -                        20 -  -
Soua Total Training                                         S0      -     -      -     -          50    s0    -         -      -    50
F. Local Consultants
1. Coordinator                                           27         -     -         -    27    27       -     -      -     -    27
2. Administrator                                         27         -        -      -    27    27       -     -      -     -    27
3. Admninistrative Assistant                             15     -      -      -     -    15    15          -      -        -    15
4. Accountant                                            15     --            -     -    15             -     -      -     -    15
5. Assistanit Accountant                                 10     -      -      -     -    10    10       -     - -   -      -    10
6. Procurement Expert                                    24     -      -     -      -    21    24          -      -        -    24
7. Forestry Expert                                       39     -      -      -     -    39    39       -     -      -     -    39
8. Information Management Specialist /x                   5     -      -      -     -      5            -     -      -     -      5
9. Dispute Resolution Expert                             38     -      -      -     -    38    38       -     -      -     -    38
10. Legal Services /y                                    10     -      -     -      -    10    10       -     -      -     -    10                          >
11. Information Campaigns /z                             26 .2.26 -         .    -      2C   -2    .....            -            2
Sous Total Local Consultants                               236      -     -      -     -   236   236       -      -     -      -   216
C. International Consultants
1. Forest & Park Management Training Expert /aa          70     -      -     -      -    70    70       -     -      -     -    70
2. Park Management Expert /bb                            70     -      -     -           70    70       -     -                  70
3. Forest Management Expert                              70     -      -     -      -    70    70          -      -   -    -    70
4. Information Management Specialist                     70         -     -         -    70    70       -     -      -     -    70
1-1 Pl uject PLepad ation Facility



S. Ecotourism Expert /cc                                     4 --                        -                                               Se  S  
Sous Total International Consultants                          134       - __. -              -        -i -Il         ___         -     -,  _ 334
Total Coats d-Invotisaement                                      1,772          -          -      - 1,772 1,7772      -      -      -      - 1,772
Ir. CoOtn Ricurrents
A. Project Administration Unit
1. Office Expenses                                          10      -      -      -      -    10    11        -      -      -      -     1l
2. Vehicle o0H                                               9             -      -      -      9    10       -      -      -      -    10
3. Support ataff                                            20      -         -     -    20    20   _             _                      20
Sous Total Project Kdministration Unit                          39      -      -      -      -    39    40        -      -      -           40
B. Office Rxpense                                               15      -      -      -      -    IS    17        -      -      -     -    17
C. Field Personnel /dd                                          45         -          -      -    45    50        -      -      _      _    SO
D. Per diems                                                    36      -      -      -      -    36    40        -      -      -      -    40
E. Fire Control Brigades                                         5      -      -      -      -     5      6       -      -      -      -     6
F. Labourers                                                     5      -      -      -      -     5      6       -             -     -      6
C. Park & Forest Surveillance /ee                               30      -      -      -      -    30    33        -      -      -      -    33
tI. Vehicle O03  /ff                                            34 t.,  _1-2   1.7
Total Coats Rocurrents                                                   __         -            -   202   2.27       -             -2
Total                                                             1,900       -      -      -      - 1,950 1,999        -      -      -      - 1,999
\a Principally for Foret des Pins. Also includes fixtures and wirillg for Parks. Explore solar alterniative.
\b For access roads.35 km total at 3 ants/personi/day. Assumes work crew of 100 people at winimum wage of US52.40/day.
\c Includes construction of water catchment for mare Rouge
\d Includes major rehabilitation at Mare Rouge (540,000) .  Includes staff housing  (cabinis, garage, office) at Foret des Pins ($60,000) and La Visite
($60,000). Also includes $20,000 for CentLal Office Rehabilitation. Inicludes $40,000 for DFP'C hbnildi,mg.
\e Reconstruction of bridge of Seguijn ))avinie
\f Three for technology generation
\g Vehsicle distribution is: Project Administration  (2); SRF (I); Foret des Pinis (1); La Visite  (1); Macaya (1)
\h Includes fuel
\i Includes printers, cables, etc.
\j I for Parca dilaiti (Project Administration Unit), US$20,000. 1 for Mare Rouge and 1 for La Visite  (US$10,000 each)
\k Includes antenna and co-axle cable., Parcs dlilaiti, SRF, and Forest des Pins and Mare Rougjc
\L Three radios for each base station
\m Includes tents, chains, compasses.
\n Includes items such as picks, shovels, etc.                                                                                                                                      1!
\o Includes park and forest offices, and staff housing. Includes household appliances for paik and forest personnel.                                                                 
\p Includes 2 international consultants (l social scientist, I legal expert) andL  2 local coraul..iaits (an agronueoist/forester and a lawyer) for a weeks.
\q To collect primary data on land tenure situatioll and relation to productionl
\r Jncludes 10 SRF Technicians (stipends). 40 Assistants, 6 laboures and I driver. Inicludes food (USI15,000/year W 11512/day)
\s Includes 6 person Survey Tpam (Surveyor, Scribe, 4 Assistants), 6.000 hoi1ies aC $10/boL1re, per diues of $1/pesson/day, and tranisport of $200/month over 5
month period (assumes completioni of half of total farm surveys).
\t Contract with DGI for Forest des Pins boundary survey.
\u Includes aerophotography and orthophotoas of all 3 reserves
\v Training of govlt personnel and local residenits
\w Includes Us$5,000 for Local Comamittees (transportation, per diems) and uS1is,ooo for ResLe-ve Committee.
\x Permaanent position during project life. Begins with final 4  sonrths of PPF.
\y Includes legal costs for boundary dispute resolution
\z Inzludes US$6,000 for Publicity Consultant, usS5,000 for Boundary Survey Ltifo Campaign, and US$15,000 for Oroject :Info Camnpaigni: radio spots, pamphiets
and .community meetings to inform of ploject goals
\aa Expert will help to develop both lon9g-term and short-term Forest Management programme foi cuutrent anid future technlicians and agents. Survey of employers
and ancien diplome
\bb Responsible for Coordinating establishing managemerit commitees and border demarcation
\cc Study of ecotourism potential of the reserve areas
\dd Professional field staff in Forest and Parks.
\ee Assumes 5 guards per park plus 10 for Foret des Pins at $1300/guard/year. Inc)udes US $4000 for five day training session.
\ff Based on 15% of Vehicle purchase cost. First year includes $10,000 for repair of 2 cxiating vehicles
Tue Jun 04 14:08:07 1996
1-2 PLOjecL I 'etla ttiLoli LX ill'



Assistance Technlique pour la t',obectioll deu P"&c-s eL des ForLjis
Tableau 201  ls!LituLiOnal StXeLzsyils.i1issJ L  efuVll
Coats D6taiilhs
cuss ooo0)
199____      329 ______1  +9  Totaux Y Compri  l mnrtxut...
1997  1990. 1-2"1  209&%. 2QRL  Jaflul 1997.  1295%  1999. 200tD  2 001-- Tlat
1. CoSits 4dInvestissement
A. DFPC /a
1. Building Rehabilitation /b                                         20                                20    22       -                         22
2. Generator /c                                                       20       -     -      -      -    20    22       -      -      -     -    22
3. Office equipment /d                                                  8     a      2      2      2    22      9      9      2      3     3    26
4. Furniture /e                                                         5     5      2      2      2    16      6      6      2      3     3    19
5. Vehicle /f                                                          40    70      -      -      -   110    45    82        -      -      -   126
6. Computers                                                            9     9      -      -      -    18    10    10        -      -     -    21
7. Software                                                             5      1     1      1      -      a     6      1      1      1     -      9
8. Multimedia equipment /g                                             10     3      -      -      -    13    11       3      -      -     -    15
9. Technical Equipment                                                 10    10      5      -            25    11    12       6      -      -    29
10. Short term Training /h
Technician Boarding /i                                               -    63   131   121    56   374         -    73   158   156    74   461
Field Agent Training Course /j                                      8      8      8      a      -    30      8      9      9     9      -    36
Law Enforcement Training /k                                        23    20    11    11    11    75    26    23    13    13    14    89
Farmer and Technician Exchanges /I                                  4      8      4      8      4    28      4      9      5    10      5    34
Computer Training                                                    -     2      5      .      2    14       -     2      6     6      3    17
Management Training                                                  -     2      5      5      -    12      -      2      6     6      -    15
Local Management Committee Training /m                               -    10    10       5      5    30      -    12    12       6      7    37
Guest Speakers                                                       S     S      5   _S        S __25       6     I      A      6      7 ___0
Sous Total  Short tern Training                                        40   118   178   170    83   587    44   137   215   214   108   718
11. International M.Sc. /n                                              -   138   276   207    69   690          -   I6I   334   260    90   845
12. International Short Course Training                                20    20    20    20    20   100    22    23    24    25    26   121
13. International Study Tour /o                                         -    17      -      -      -    17       -    20      -      -     -    20
14. Operating Expenses
Per diems                                                           5      5      5      S     S    25       6      6      6     6      7    30
Office Expenses                                                 _ Q       IQ   "j2  _O    .Th --20          "      12    12    '3 _1_L         .1
Sous Total  Operating Expenses                                         '5   Il5    IS  Ifl5  _5 -1_     2.5    17.   17   s18       19   2Q    91
Sous Total DFPC                                                          202   414   499   417   191 1,721   226   482   603   524   249 2,085
8. Project Coordination Unit
1. Vehicles                                                             -      -    70      -      -    70       -     -    85       -     -    8S
2. Computers /p                                                        30    25    10    10        -    55    11    29    12    13         -    65
3. Documentation & Training Materials /q                               20    10    10    10    10    60    22    12    12    13    13    72
4. Publicity and InformaLion Canmpdigiy                                 5    10    10    10        5    40       6    12    12    13       7    48
5. Local Consultants
Coordinator                                                        27    27    27    27    27   135    30    31    33    34    35   164
Administrator                                                      27    27    27    27    27   135    30    31    33    34    35   164
Administrative Assistant /r                                          9     9      9      9      9    45    10.   10    11    11    12    55
Accountant                                                         15    is    15    15    15    75    17"   17    18    19    20    91
Assistant Accountant                                                10    10    10    10    10    50    11    12    12    13    13    61
Information Management Specialist                                  20    20    20    20    20   100    22    23    24    25    26   121
Supplies and Materials Controller                                    5     5      5      5      5    26      6      6      6     7      7    32
Purchasing Agent                                                    5       b     S __5  _  S    26          6      5      6     'I     7      a2
Sous Total Local Consultants                                        1jJ  ...    __Jfll  A11    t11    592   113   nL  u1 ._42   iss   71
Sous Total Project Coordination Unit                                     153   IG3   218   148   133   817   172  -190   2G4   187   174   988
C. Local Consultants
1. Forest Management Experts                                           23    23    23    23        -    90    25    26    27    28         -   107
2. Park Management Experts                                             23    23    23    23        -    90    25    26    27    28          -   107
3. Market Experts                                                       -    32    32    32    32   130          -    38    39    41    42   160
4. Legal Services                                                      20    20    20    20        -    80    22    23    24    25         -    95              >
5. Fiscalization study                                                  -    9L       -     -      -    90       -   105      -      -          105
6. Organizational Expert /s                                            3      4.          __1a _ L5  -...   n 120    1J   52   1G    19    -   111
Sous Total Local Coanultants                                              95   232   127   112    32   600   107   271   154   141    42   715
D. International Conaultants
1. Forest Management Advisor  -                                       140   140             -      -   280   157   163               -     -  -320
2. Park Management Expert                                             140   140    10    35    ?4   409   157   IG3  . 85    44    31   480
3. Forest 6 Park Management Training Expert /t                        140   140             -           280   157   163       -      -     -   320
2-1 InstiLut ssial :L s-spj licsiisi ! (UsoiiLi



4. Research and Extension Expert /u                                  51    81    27    27        -   216    91    94    33    34        -   252
S. Information Managemaent Specialist                                70    35    12    12    12   140    79    41    14    15    15   163
6. Ecotourism Expert /v                                               -    54       -     -      -    54      -    63      -      -     -    63
7. Procurement Firm                                                 290 __2f                         400  4_ 221   211  _                   JS7
Soun Total International Consultants                                   771   790   109    74    35 1.779   865   920   131    93    46 2,056
E. Annual audits                                                        50    50    50    50    50   2S0    56    58    61    63    65   303
F. Mid-term review.                                                       -     -   150      -      -   150      -      -   182      -     -   182
G. Additional Consultants                                                 -    50    50    50    50   200        -    58    61    63    65   247
H. Additional Studies                                                     -     -    50   100   100   250        -      -    61   126   131   317
1. Project Impact and Preparatory Planning for Follow-up Phase   -              -   _        -   It    140       -      -     -        -        11 1
Total Couts dlInvestissement                                              1,271 1,699 1,253   951   692 5,866 1,425 1,980 1,517 1,196   904 7,023
II. Coata Rgcurrants
A. Project Coordination Unit
1. Per diems                                                         20    20    20    20    20   100    22    23    24    25    26   121
2. Office Expense                                                    36    36    36    36    3G   180    40    42    44    45    47   218
3. Vehicle OEM                                                        9      9     9      9      9    45    10    10    11    11    12    55
4. Support staff                                                     10     10     0___1_    10    *I8    J        L1    12 1Z   2    12 .55
Total CoSts Recurrents                                                       75    75   Vi    75    7-   373   4ii    83    9a    94    97   452
Total                                                                      1,345 1,774 1,327 1,02G   766 6,239 1,509 2,0G7 1,607 1.290 1,002 7,474
\a Direction de Formation et de Perfectiolunent Cadre
\b Includes painting, plumbing, electric instalations. Completes work iniLiated under the I'PI.
\c 32 kw generator
\d Includes photocopier, fax, etc.
\e Includes beds, desks, chairs, greenboards,closets
\f Includes 2 double cabin pick-up (35,000 each) and 1 bus (40,000)
\g Includes VCRs, TV monitors, slide projectors, overhead projectors, etc.
\h 2 - 3 month international training course for professors and forest and park services
\i Includes Boarding for Forest Management Technicians (30) and Patk Management Techinicians (20), 30 recycled Lechiliciano(l month course in Year 1)
\j Site-based training for 75 field agents for 6 day training course aninual. Includes trainiiig matetidis
\k Include 30 days training in year 1, 7 days training years 2 - 5 at us $15/agent/day. Also inicludes 92,000 year I for invited speakers and 5500 years 2 - 5
\1 Includas farmer to farmer exchanges between regions anid techinician to techniciall cxch aigs to DOninicall Republic.  Includes two 4 day farmer
exchanges/year as well as one 5 day tecinician exchange in Years I and 3
\m Includes formation & training                                                                                                                                              oc
\n For Hsc. in Forest i Park Management for 12 students
\o Visit to successful- natural resources managemenlt projects
\p Includes 5 computers, 1 aerver, software, and periferals,
\q Jncludes acquistion, publication and distrubtion of technical resource material
\r Tri-lingual secretary with managerial capability
\s For Local Committee Formation and Training
\t ExperL will help to develop bothi long-teri,l and short-term Foresc Management proqrar.uee tor current and future technicians and agents. Survey of employers
and ancien diplome
\u Provides technical assistance to CRDA to support their capacity to plan, supervise, moniror extensionl contracts
\v Study of ecotourism potential of the reserve areas
Tue Jun 04 14:08:17 1996
2>
2-2 1nlistiutiuna1, tiI:cFi'jlIhen1Illq C I,loflza



hlaiti
Assistance Technlqu.l pour la Ptotection des Patcj et des Foretus
TatAle.U 101. l'iile l' - est 14-140-wIl.usa
Coats Ditailli.
tUS$  000)
Co.lts de Base RTtaux Y Comnris Tmprevi6s
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 19fl7  129Q_ US9   2000  20nl  T_QLQ1
I. Codts d'Investisnement
A. Civil Works
1. Roads Rehabilitation                       7      8     -      -        -    15    8     9      -      -      -    17
2. Building Rehabilitation /a                30   5so                    - 011  _  31 3.."   I  6            _^       21
Sous Total Civil Works                          37    58    30       -      -   125    11    GU    3G        -      -   145
B. Furniture /b                                  4      6      -     -      -    10      4      7     -      -      -    11
C. Vehicle
1. Pickup Trucks /c                           -      -     -    64       -    64      -            -    73       -    73
2. Flatbed Truck                              -      -     -    50       -    50      -      -     -    57       -    57
3. Motorcycles                                5      - ----       5 -- --                          -      6     -   A1
Sous Total Vehicle                               5      -      -   119      -   121      5      -      -   13G      -   141
D. Computers /d                                   -     -      9     -      -      9     -      -    11      -           11
E. Field Equipment /e                           10    10       5     5      -    30    11    12       6      6      -    35
F. Handheld Radios                               -      6      -     3      -    10      -      I      -     4      -    11
0. Information Campaign /f                      10    10    10    10        -    40    11    12    12    13         -    48
if. Farm Lease Field Survey /g                  10      -      -     -      -    30    li       -      -     -      -    11
1. Boundary Survey & Demarcation /h             42    42       -     -      -    84    47    49        -     -      -    96
J. Wildlife Inventory and Field Research          -    40    20    20       -    so      -    4/    24    25              96
K. Ecorourism Development                        -    30    30    30    30   120         -    35    36    38    39   148
L. Forest Management Activities
Reforestation /i                             30    68    78    78    78   332    34    79    94    90   102   407
Fare Lease Field Demarcation /j               -    So    25    25        -   100      -    5a    30    31        -   120
Forest Inventory /k                          15    20      -      -      -    35    17    23       -      -      -    40
Identification of New Reserves /1           --        --.    25    2          So                         3 -  1    33    64
Sous Total ore-t Management Activities          45   138   103   128   103   517    so   161   125   161   135   632
M. Local Management Committee Support            2      5      F     5      5    22      2_  6               6      1    272
Total Couts dlnv.stisaseent                         165   345   212   320   138 1.181   185   402   257   3as   180 1.413
rr. Couts Rdcurrents
A. Civil Works Maintenance /m                   15    15    15    15    15    75    17    17    18    19    20    91
U. Vehicle O&H /n                               16    16    16    16    16    80    IU    19    19    20    21    97
C. office Operating Costs /o                    15    15    1S    15    15    75    17    17    18    19    20    91
D. Salaries
1. Incremental Salaries /p                   60    75    75    75    75   360    61    79    83    86    89   398
2. Travel Per diemas                          5    10    10    10    10    45         6    12    12    13    13    55
3. Fire Brigades /q                          15    15    15    15    15    75    15    16    17    17    18    83
4. Labourers /r                15   1IS  IL 1                    is    is5   15    la       I ___J 2   17    1A 8f J-R
Soua Total Salaries                             95   115   iL5   1'5 __115  _ 55-5  _2  _123 _ 1           li1 __1l   GIB1
Total CoOt. Rfcurrents                             141   161       161 161                 il _1    7uS _ H2   1 a   fl2    19t1  1 3 i 122
Total                                               306   506   373   481   299 1,966   333   579   44C   580   318 2.310
\a Forest Service Lodge. Includes facilities for environmental education seOmilars.
\b Includes Forest Service Lodge furniture
\c Replacement of vehicles purchased under PPF and in Year 1
\d 2 computers at Mare Rouge, 1 at SRF and 1 in Foret des Pins
\e Includes shovels, picks, chain saws, etc
\f Includes environmental education
\g completion of survey begun under PPF.
\h Completion of contract with WGI begun under PPF.
\i Includes production of seedlings and planting. Based on US$0.15 per seedLiig wiLlt  eunsity of 1500 seediings/ha. over 1,500 heccares.
\j Includes local labour to support technicians L corner post construction
\k Includes 10 SRF Technicians (stipends), 40 Assistants, 6 labotures and I driver
\1 Includes local labour to support technicians & corner post construction-
\o Includes road repair,  water supply, building maintenance and electric power supply
\n Calculated as 15t of purchase costs for 3 vehicles
\o Includes operation and maintenance of generators and office equipment, oftice supplies
\p Includes professional field staff
3-1 HSi1.    t    Mall ag--U| z. I



\q Based on S teams of 15 persons for 4 months/year at USSSO/month.
kr Based on 75 labourers workilig 4 monthis/year at US$SO/month/pex-8on
Tue Jun 04 14:08:25 1996
0
3-2 P)ilnl L.1:.1   .l.,.l,l



[lait i
Assistance Techlnicuu polur la llIot-cLiol d1u  P aav; ut dCs POI'0tL
Tableau 3u2    tI.Lioaaal tL.ak I4JiiiL
Couts oetailles
ms-5w -0001
Couits de Base                 _Tut.YComDris lmjiprevuas
1997  I" L  12"92  2-9nQ)  200l  T_L112 19TL 19511 LY99  2Q0nL. 201L. Total
I. Co6ts d'rnvestissement
A. Civil Works
1. Road Relabilitation                            3      2      -     -      -     S      3      2      -     -      -     6
2. OffiCe Renovation & Shelters /a               20    30    _.       -   _       S0  __22 _...    -_ '       _ 
Sous Total Civil Works                               23    12      -      -     -    55    26    37        -      -     -    63
B. Office furniture I equipment                       S      -     -      -     -      5     6      -      -      -     -      6
C. Vehicle and Animal Transport
1. Pick-up trucks /b                             32    32    32       -      -    96    36    37    39        -          112
2. Motorcycles /c                                 5      -      -            -    10      6      -      -     6      -    12
3. lorses /d                                       '     5                                - _-_k    _
Sous Total Vehiel, and Animal Transport              37    37    32       5     -    1I    41    43    39         6     -   130
D- Computers /e                                       9     9      -      -     -    la    10    lu        -      -     -    21
E. Comunication Equipment /f                          S     8      -      -     -    l3       6     9      -      -     -    iS
F. Field Equipment /9                                16    10      3      3     3    35    18    12        4      4     4    41
G. Videography /h                                     -      -           50      -    so             -     -    63       -    63
1. Park Delimitation Impact Study /i                 30      -     -      -     -    30    34        -     -      -     -    34
1. Boundary Surveys and Demarcation /j                -    31    10    10       -    51       -    36    12    13       -    Cl
J. Hlabitat Rehabiliation /k                          -      -    15    1S    15    45                     10    19    20    57
K. Information Campaign /1                           10    10      5      5     -    30    II    12        6      6     -    3S
L. Ecotourism Development /-                          -    40    40    40    40   160         -    47    48    50    52   198
M. wildlife Inventory and Field Research              -    20    25    10    10    6S         -    23    30    13    13    79
14. Local Management Committee Support                5     s      5      5     5    2S       6     G             6     7    30
0. ldentification of New Protection Areas /n          -      .  _. .      Q    S.5gQ   IO 11 _-z_ -      _       61 _"i5    120
Total CoOica dlnvestimaement                            140   202   135   193   123   793   157   23s   163   243   I61   959
II. Couts R6currentm
A. Civil Works Maintenance Io                        10    10    10    10    10    50    11    12    12    13    13    61
S. Vehicle Operation & Maintenance /p                10    10    10    10    10    50    11    12    12    13    13    61
C. Office Operating Costs                            1S    15    IS    1S    15   715    17    J7    i8    19    20    91
D. Salaries
1. Incremental salaries /q                       40    55    55    55    55   260    41    58    61    63    65   288
2. Travel per diems                               5      5      5     s      5    25      6      6      6     6      7    30
3. Fire brigades aiid Maintenance /r             is    1S    1815    is    I _..         16  _   1      7 _ 1       1E     I
Soum Total Salaries                              ___Q          7s 75 . 7'i _I j_ I          fi ._i2 _._U   ___91 _16 _  92Q   4 
Total Couuts Recurrents                       __ 2 .                 110 11  1 1   I Q   52  __) 133  1_2 1125   10 J      15  l_ 13
Total                                                    235   312   245   303   233 1,328   2581  356   289   373   296 1,572
\a Includes $20.000 for Macaya office (year I) and 5 shelters (3 at Macaya and 2 at La Viuitu) at $6,000 each
\b Vehicle for macaya. Replacement vehicle in Year 3 tor La Visite ajid Year S for Macaya.
\c For cransport from Les Cayes to park office.
\d Includes equipmrent costs
\d Includes software, printers. etc.
\f Includes I base station 1US$4,500) and 8 handheld radios at $000/eaceh. Also includes I iadio for vehicle.
\9 Includes I generacor ($10,0001, 2 GPS handlueld uwits ($400/eal, misc. survcy eqtipmauait. I Cameras and iaaiscellancous tools (skhovels, picks, binoculersg
wheelbarrows ..) for 10 Ravine Correction teams.
\h 525000 per park per sweep
\i Socio-economic assessment of impact of boundary expansion
\j For Park La Visite and Park Macaya. Assumes combined perimeter of 60 kas. Assuines 7 pkCI5011 tealil working 3 moalths. laiclute  $25,000 tor personnel and
cransport and $13,000 for materials, including bornes and other materials
\k Includes ravine correction and reforestation with niaLive DpCCiCS ill 1111tUral foicsi.  i;.vi,a, cLoaLeCL1oi of 2 kui of L.&viaaeS total for botb parks over I year
period. Work crews costed at 85g/day, allowing 2 days per retelitioii wall, with walls place eve-y 10 n
\1 Includes radio, community meetings
\m Lased on $20,000 per park
\n $25,000 per park per sweep
\o Includes road maintenance based on 12.Skm at $300/km.
\p Calculated as 15t of purchase price. Includes horse maintenan3ce.
\q Includes professional field staff                                                                                                                                   >
4-1 lI,ti a,ai1 1J'1 Ih.I)a;L  I I



-42-                                             ANNX 
^ ..~~~~~~~~
S                                                                                                                         C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a
0
>=
*0
32
I'
0
'a
U 
41
' a'
X o
o ..
* oU
41i C
0 
r
,- a



1lait i
Assistance Techilique pour la Piotection des Parcs eL des FoLrts
Tableaui 401. Butfer Zonie DevulopmulitL
CoaLs Detailles
(USS '000)
CoAts de Base                     Tltaux Y CoiprLis -Luervtis
1997  I998  1999  2000  2001  Toai  1221_h   1          99 M2_- 20(0  2-00i  TQotl
I. Couts d'Inveatisaement
A. Butter Zone Small Investment Facility
1. Incoine Generating Activity Giants /a                 -    60   200   600   740 1,600          -    64   220   686   879 1,849
2. Natural Resource Conservationi Giants                 -    50   150   300   300    o00         -    53   l65   343   356   918
3. Techniology Generation GralLs                         -      -   100   100   100   300         -      -   121   126   131   378
4. Beneficiary counterparL /b                            -    22    90   150   170   432          -    23    99   172   202   496
S. Administration Fee /c                                 -    17    68   150   171   406          -    10    75   172   203   468
G. Technical assistance /d                               -    16    67   150   171   401               '17    71   172   203   465
. Promotion, Publicity                                15    20    2q    20 ___20    95  _U 1         21      21  _   a    2_   116
Sous Total Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility           15   185   69S 1,470 1.G72 4,037         11   198   778 1,69S 2,001 4,688
B. Extension Services
Foret des Pins /e                                     100   278   328   319   182 1,207   102   294   361   365   216 1,338
La Visite                                             100   223    199   24S   120   8U/   112   260   241   303   157 1,018
MaCaya                                                 1D3    250   286  .i2   111 __S5&   112   ?91 9            4G   1 G   I 2 I   L 2U7
Sous Total Extension Services                             300   751   813   853   435 3,152    326   846   948 1,03G   517 3,703
C. Technology Generation & Transfer
1. Vehicle
Pick-up trucks                                      32    96       -      -      -   128    36   112        -             -   148
Motorcycles                                                 a 8    -      -      -      8      -     9      -   _         -      9
Bous Total Vehicle                                      32   104       -      -     -   136    36   121         -      -     -   156
2. Equipment /f                                         15    25      5       -     -    45    11    29         6      -     -    52
3. Furniture                                             5      -     -      -      -      5      6      -      -     -      -      6
4. Computers                                            14      5     5       -     -    23    15        5      5      -     -    26
5. Software                                              8      5      -      -     -    13       9      6      -             -    15
6. Reference Materials & Periodicals                     S    10      S      5    S       3j0     6    12 _ 6_ __    ._ _           6
Sow. Total Technology Generation & Transfer                79   148 _ a __ _5    _          251     Oa   172    15 Gi                29i 2 1
Total CoOt. d'Invastissaemnt                                   394 1,084 1,523 2,320 2,112 7,1.10   431 1,21G 1,744 2,737 2,554 8,683
11. CoOt. Ricurrenta
A. Incremental salaries                                    50    50    50    50    50   250    56    SU    61    63    65   303
B. Velhiele O&M,  (CDRA)                                   13    15    IS    15    15 1       13    iS    17   l    19    20    89
C. Office Expenses (CRDAk                                   6      6      G      G      G     lo _1 _7      I           J        8     16
Total Couits Reeurrents                                         65    71    71 _  71    71   11il    77    el    8G    82  1              4 _21
Total                                                           463 1,155 1,594 2,399 2,183 7,793   508 1,299 1,830 2,827 2,6-17 9,111
\a Includes 52 million for income-generating activites in buffer zoiues
\b Based on 20t of grant amount in uach year.
\c Calculated as 151 of grant amount.
\d Calculated as 15% of grant amount. Includes proposal preparation, adninistrative training, and tecinical asisisldnce.
\e Includes 1 supervisor, 6 technicians, 6 motorcycles and OLM expenses for dev..lopmenc of faraii lease plais.
\f Year I includes 32 kw. generator, photocopiers, fax, mimegraphy. misc. office equipment.
Tue Jun 04 14:0B:34 1996
5-I But t Z-Wt D,..e Iev.:IXim,,-1,,



HaSii
Asuistance Techniquu pout la ProtLction deu  Par- i eL des ForfLt
Compton de D-p-nso par saill.urs de Fond
(US$ millioli)
Locale  Douane
Beneficiaries            Golf           Horld llank            lotal    _               (Sauf     &
Mant 1li     t    montant        t  t4cn)d  tLtailL   _  eitaii        t  :ein  ]I!LIbLl  0,
I. Couta dInvestiaaauant
A. Goods                                     -        -         -         -      2.5   100.0        2.5      11.2       2.3       0.3        -
S. Works                                  0.5      13.1         -         -      3.3      86.9       3.8     16.8       3.4       0.4        -
C. Consultants
Local consultants                        -         -        -         -      7.9    100.0        7.9     35.2       2.5       5.4        -
International consultants                -         -        -         -      .L  N    l 0  .      1  _  1 l 0       1 4       0.L        -
Sous Total Consultant                        -        -         -         -    11.7    100.0       11.7 l     2.2       6.0       5.8        -
D. Training                                  -         -      -           - ---Z.L 8   100 0         1LJ  .    lA      0f 9       0-9        -
Total Couta d Xnvaatisaament                  OS        2.5         -         -     19.4      97.5     19.8      80.1      12.5       7.4        -
1I. Couta Rdcurranta
A. Incremental racurrent coats
Salaries /a                              -         -      0.4     25.2       1.1      74.8       1.4       6.3         -      1.4        -
Operatinig costs                         -         -      02       15 0       1.  0    L.        I2 ..__.._            -      L          -
Total Couta R6currants                           -         -      O5       20 5       2.1     79. 5      2 g      I I      _           2- 
Total Ddcaiaaasent                              0.5       2.2       0.5      2.4      21.4      95.4     22.5   100.0        12.5      10.0
\a prestaciones
Tue Jun 04 14:03:43 1996
6-1 Comptes de Dcpcnse par Bailicurs dc Fond



Hlaiti
Assistance lechnique pour la Piorcctioaj des rJLC! UL des Forrta
Riicapitulation des Couts du Proj.t
Total
..frurdes 14illion)          IJUSS Mi)lioIIL %              Cocits
Locale  Devis    Total  LQaCi,1. U"intni .2Q_LlLL. Ib-yisul da.ua=
1. Project Preparation Facility                                      12.B    16.9    29.7        0.9      1.1      2.0       57       10
2. Institutional Strengthening and Reform                            43.2    50.4    93.6        2.9      3.4      6.2       54       32
3. Support for the Management of Forest anid National Parks    28.7    20.7    49.4              1.9      3.4      3.3       42       17
4. Buffer Zone Developmaent                                          41.1  _1.6 .U6  5   _            '-2 _          AJ               40
Total COOTS DE BASE                                                     128.0   161.6   289.6        a.5   1.8    19.3          56      100
lmprivus Physiques                                                     8.6      9.0    17.5       o.0      0.6      1.2       51        6
Imprivus sur lea Prix                                                 13.2    16.7  _29.9         . 9       1.1      2.       G Q   _   Ia
Total COUTS DU PROJECT                                                  149.7   181.3   337.0    10.0    12.5    22.5            56      116
Tue Jun 04 14:08:52 1996
7-1 Rccapitulation des Cofits du Projet



-46-                                     ANNEX A
8-1 - Disbursement Arrangements
Amount of the                  % of
No.                   Category                        Credit Allocated            Expenditures
(US$ millions            to be Financed
equivalent)
1.     Works                                                 0.5                       100%
2.      Goods                                                 1.6                 100%offoreign
expenditures; 100%/a
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
80% of other items
procured locally
3.      Consultants a/, Studies, and Training                 8.6                      100%
4.      Management Services Contract (BZSIF)                  3.8                     100% /b
5.     Incremental Recurrent Costs                            1.8                      80%
6.     Refunding of PPF                                       2.0
7.     Unallocated                                            3.2
Total                                                21.5
a/ including individual consultants, the procurement agent, and the NGOs for extension services in the Buffer zones.
b/ for subprojects (i.e. small investments financed upon demand from beneficiaries) under the BZSIF, beneficiaries are
expected to participate in-kind for cofinancing some civil works for an aggregate of US$500,000.
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY              19972          1998           1999         2000          2001
--------------------------------- ($ million) ------------------------------------
Annual               4.6            4.3            4.7          4.6           3.3
Cumulative                          8.9           13.6          18.2         21.5
2      Including refund of PPF and retroactive financing of up to US$2.5 million for eligible expenditures
incurred after May 15, 1996.



ANNEX B
Project Implementation and Impact Indicators
(Indicateurs des Resultats et d'impact)



I



ANNEX B
HAITI
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION T. A. PROJECT
Performance Indicators
DATA
COMPONENT                   ACTIVITY                     INDICATORS                                  TARGET                    COLLECTION
ActuallYear 2001               (FRFQUENCY
AND
RESPONSIBILITY)
Natural Reserve Managraent
quarterly:
Pine Forest Management      Boundary surveys &   1. % of boundaries established          100%                                     SRF, SPNS
demarcation
2. # of Advisory Councils functioning    3 Councils functioning effectively and
National Parks Management     Advisory councils   effectively                             autonomously
Surveillance       3. # of park and forest ranger teams     3 ranger teams forned per reserve that regularly
functioning effectively                 report violations to justice authorities
Buffer Zone Development
Technology Generation and Transfer Extension Services   4. technology adoption rate, by technology   4,450 farms with agroforestry configurations    quartrly:
2,050 farms using soil conservation techniques  CRDA, NGOs
1,050 farms introduced crop diversification
Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility Financing sub-projects 5. # of sub projects financed and successfully 250 sub-projects functioning effectively  quarterly:
(Manmt Sevices ConmLd with FAES)                     functioning                                                                        FAES
Institutional Reform & Stren2thening
Project Coordination      Reinforcing associated 6. # of agencies effectively using strategic    associated agencies (4) functioning efficiently  annually: PCU
government agencies  planning and budgeting
60 new forest and park technicians        quarterly,
Training and Technical Assistance  Training personnel   7. Number of persons trained by category    10 natural resource mgt specialists (MS)  DFPC
w



HAITI
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION T. A. PROJECT
Impact Indicators
DATA COLLECTION
COMPONENT           DESIRED IMPACT                            INDICATOR                         FREQUENCY             RESPONSIBILITY
Natural Reserve     Increase biodiversity    I. Survival of key species on verge of extinction and  baseline & project SRF, SPNS
Management                                      population levels of threatened species          completion
Reduce encroachment and  2. Change in area affected by encroachment and habitat   annual       SRF, SPNS
habitat destruction        destruction from 1997 baseline
Develop Ecotourism      3. Number of ecotourism-related infrastructure units  annual           PCU
developed
4. Number of paying visitors
Buffer Zone         Increase Farn Productivity 5. Crop yields                                     baseline & annual CRDA/FAES
Development         and Farm Family Income   6. On and off-farm income
CRDA             Centre for Agricultural Research and Development
DFPC             Directorate of Training and Continuing Education
FAES             Social and Economic Assistance Fund                                                                                                          3I
NGO              Non-Governmental Ogranization awarded agroforestry extension contract
PCU              Project Coordination Unit                                                                                                                    Z
SPNS             National Park Service
SRF              Forest Resources Service



ANNEX C
Project Implementation Schedule
(Chronogramme d'Execution du Projet)






HAITI
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BENCHMARKS &                      YEAR   I    EAR 2  YEAR 3        4        5
COMPONENT                      ACT191TY                      TASK               mevo"uwjr.           MILESTONES              199 |  1997        1996     1999     2000      2001
In~onal Strengtlmnlng 9rim*w"4fG , d 0 . m tn  sxtogicillo                                  223,4.5.6  Pk- olI --d
and Reform                                                  Lm   Fei IPUh. mm                2214    PF.   Id I 
Eibi h     bum".s P bflh9ty      2A      puarts   y F   *6i.4
A_ffsiokdlm                Cram, P*d C         Ihi            I      Pr,S Cea       IMY tsiCm_ Lc I
~~~~~~~~~~~~Pk,k,_%  _ go ,                        Z,.4,5,S,7  b q   q>    o i h w                                                0 
5.i         h.              246?           I.M _C.qkUd_  ;_;  
PNOWsm.                    Firot Procurem" caspipa            2
Sesand Pvo,wmmd CuIyg             2
dPmw,M Ci,pc       0              2      PVu_g    C| CgyIM                             O   1   _
Paso   Rvivub.qat Aimar0 
9pgu.            Wad saw. b.. a                   2234   MCu EIua.
_~~ Z F C ~~~2                                                                                     I I         *         *-    
Ewkm  mo.iatw             E*oM WS 84d.                       2      bu      t r.my    mtds*wd 
ELM TMh                           2      MOE ElM p.dsdy                                                   ......              _
RRLwEAU                        22344,67                                                   -                            -    - -    
W'd-Taa. 1a                      1110 
Piol                             110
Rap.ii                     0111toIupReports               2.24.56?                                                 I      III               I
ftutRO                      2234.5667
O  vfPCbt                OFPC Bidi    ah   0               2Z9     adei*W  99Iom
P3* -mm  Truh.yd    C.,mis.. Trahie 0                         5       r.M.g.iny
Ltg0  TraM.,0                     5      Tw"_  _.i 
Lg  .,mm,wht TruM.,g  Larddo 0.. Om  mopw    T,uh      S       ,km,ei"C
.d.Gwwd Trwq               .Ucaiw fmTroiir C                        Tra4q  ria*
Todr_col Tmb*V             T"PD6 T,"T40                       I      Tr      _ I Iyg>
__.__ _________                  ____________  Mgit Trm*y                                     s      Tr_l_ __ __                                                            3
3(g~~uMh,.W4.d~~a. ~~a  a 34wI.,..bTr- 



HAITI
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I                                                    I   l  BENCHMARKS                          e . |        :K 2   Vi a .
COMPONENT                               ACTIVIlY                               TASK                                               MILcoagar,  MLESTONES          1996         1997        1996        1999        2000        2001
Ine,abonal Trat                    M .Se hI Faal *nd Park blame       an        5        Stud __wud_ =
Park nd Foana i U.gnwn Slha C awm
Pea Er.nps                          Farmnwr.o-rFa      Ensnga.                 5,8
Ta.ldwnln EwkuIga                           5,0
Stu*"                              Fecatllna Iddyo                              I        SIud Icenl_
Eudnourim oudyO                                      Sbudv OFhi
Foriet Management
samngg                             MeWhc                                       2.3
Rolot.tion 0                               2.3       Ouphc#zeo M.ppo CoCled                                  *__
WM ks                                &"V Rumbllan 0                             3
Roasa  oahWkabell  0                        3
wow   upply a                            3
BRidge Cmdanclian a                         3
S51atin of F TW Tom                         3        PRi Teen Idaled
Mmn FTraad Egmnaa                           3
I.t.h Lnd,nel             C-n e             3        Loca CI miaInTs EabEE E EEd
Su-lnwfncn                                  3------
Roa.d hialreennca 0                         3
d  T          _                    For P okld y ASsmsai  0                      3        fRpipSa ComnpaleNd
Foed Swatamy                                3         mnnatory CUWOPlald
Loe Tarnv and Ptopmw Vaudy C                3        Snd ceaonoed
FPn N  FaundPa Study 0                      3        Scaly co WMdln
FRld M.iugrWmt lS an                        3        Pln, I Ia' Iad
Oaalp Facabdtion Plan 0                     3        P_n d_AWinpa
Inoclantat b  1 rma  . Pamn                 3
Land TenureSurny                    F.IdSurve"                                  3        FildSuyCoanplated                                 III                       I
Land Uk* Plan 0                             3        Lankd Use Plan Ediamked
boundary Surayn and Dswnwatlna      Boundary Swarny & Darnwalian C              3        Onrnarcation co Aindaa
______________________ R ___________ %i   iduto R atonih   and PaNM"l Ragaimnaion  Plaitalmi Ste Sal.WDigaaRh orln      3 ftaklnPenlEdiamdz
an nuamn  elnd,n n.,. K  a nw elan lane Knnoedk   Plodbm a 



HAITI
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
l        l          a~~~~~~ENCHMARKS&            |If|  ER   YEAR ta YARX 3  YEAFR . -YEAR 4,
COMPONENT                                ACTMVrTY                              TASK                  j a-oww,, I                   MLESTONES                            19      97        1998        1999        2000        2001
OutWo*ndg 0                                 3        R.for-tat,on of 400 ba Ih. n_
WelnandFPnlcw.@pO                       3
Protectn of Rag.nanat,  S4.n 0              3
Land Usnpnimnd                      Eaiabh Land Maneaent Pans 0                 3        Land Mar ma  Plans Agend
ECaCIowN  O.w4opnas                 EeouoUdvlan ,                               1,3 PPnaola ed                                                  T
E(   lrawism ke*lnrelr. 0                   1,3
E.skeion MwdQ*Q                                                                233
RIu1                               Qwutl R.ports                                3
Pork tMlngem ent
MANRPwk S*.a
Mapping                                    pld.afC                             234
Ra.Mutiom 0                                24        oo"          p   ,I 
Studies                              andty Lga Prolehan .4 Hohy                 4        Neaw Lgonalead P tope>ad                                                                                                                L
Land Tan   and PFpuird    Sa udy ye         4        Sndy CnrplOid                              I_
hal11111111W yt and Fied SrAwy  Snasiap l.ananda.y Pla
thidrtikln korin  CO                       2,C4      Irwdn  co VW
Fid Rmatchn h0                             2. 4
Maiugamau                           SalnWd    of FuNl Tna.m, Manayn             4        Fiel Teeun ladalad
Selani  d olFildTeam, La huda               4        FlaId Teams lnlnabd
CUSnut Cannanatua OrpafkuNtn                4        Canaownlio Orpa~n  Caiv oda
Pwk MaaWg  -          Van                   4 Plan Appr and
fJ"Iuin Local C-Aion Canu-nna               A        LoaI Conn.na" E||akhad
Maagemntd                           Park Sulvbodn             r                 4
Road mantananc. a                          2, 4
P_r   r_pdn 0                              2, 4
Sbdnn                               Dannip Flas~mfo    t. Pln                  2, 4
Ilwivinsr  P1acallttlo Plan                 4.......
E.alnog"  Oba-nsaaoa  P.,a.I.        atWAhi Obarnadn  P.,e.l.                  2. 4
@4Ab    Rnhabbatina              Rvank Pro4aou  0                            2. 4 
Otw  ehbkbn02. 4Z
- a."   tddW              @  rplana                  ~aoN   pw   n



HAM
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BIENCHMARKS&                                         Y1.   2   YEAR 3   i.
COMPONENT                              ACTIVIrY                            TASK                   af.WOMM, m                MLESTONES                   it16          19997      19St        t199 |  2000           2001
bodry  s       & Ourcnamteon      smdm    sw       eaera    0             2.4       Swisdary DenrMm Ceoo re                _
CIh4                              8.   f tRehobghn, Ls Veo 0               2.4      fts bol eo *on   i                                  * i*
Bd*6 Ree6a8ke, Me..ys o                  2,4 Csh           p  ecm c mp| *
Road RaNbliutlt. Mace ye                 2, 4      Rh t C                                          *  *
Rod Rfehaltio, La %ise                  2,4       Rh       n to 
Eeoto.ola 0ore.pmer                                                         1.4
Eceboon & Mortorng                                                          2,4
RSort                             Csnrerly RePOr                            4
Buffer Zone Development
U qpW  Sn." c  11  1itv
.4d, FAES                              Snag lnlstmo  Fciafty            Inorra-generatig lAta8                    2,7P 8    Lbxshnods an Ih II*edWe
NHveal Rests ee ColOrwDon Aeles           7,9
Tehooly G.eOraion Aartibs                6o7 ,     New techaorioin Modmcad
Ted_eleg  Trder Coibch                 EAoo  Ser                         Form d.e Pin (vc        far plans) e      2,3,2     Target   oe re*ed                                                                              o
La We 0                                  2.4n8 Target cwnege rc*ed 
M4Ceay C                                2,4,      Tva"p towdage reacted
Techbeiegy G04rertoa (CR&q             Field Triais                      Nee  Swqy                                  2        N     Id
Pr Daga  Cipar                            2        LoaI Derrund randl Propo1u.T
Eraabm  Morkorg                                                           2.o,7
FESPONSIBILITY
i1. _    ofi fEo                                                           7. FAES
2. Pra. Coer e L8.  rEEn     NGOo                                                                                                                                         INTENSITY
3. Faoe  Raew- S..                                                         9..,.IOde|                                                            Benchmark                      Sustinred
4. Nbdoe  P d   nd ibiw al Sit_ Sa_ie                                     10. DA
6. fre          Trig  I C.-ag  Edao                                      * Coae..I  1. Pn.    O gitefi                                           Mileeton3                      Periodic
8.G*.Card. he ~  A  en Apiodarea Deodaponri
16 h r_   -ef     p,,eced 1-.    -    _ -,,|y j
iae
_ _an       - ov  0.   ad .ep         &.c           OO_     O_ w tepi   e s00



ANNEX D
Supervision Plan






-59 -                                ANNEX D
HAITI
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate                         Activity                         Expected Skill            Staff
Dates                                                            Requirements             Input
(months/year)                                                                                  (staff
weeks)
7/96               PPF Supervision Mission                       - Agriculture (PM                4
- review progress on establishing PCU and    - Natural Resources
recruiting personnel                         Economist
- assess status of preparing contracts for policy    - Procurement/Administration
framework study                                  Expert
- review progress on Project Operations Manual
- review bidding documents for major contracts
proposed for first year
10/96              Project Launch Workshop                       - Agriculture /TM                8
- assess status of policy reform study       - Natural Resources
- review Management Services Contract        Economist
Agreements with affiliated Government        - Social Scientist
agencies and Project Operations Manual       - Procurement/Administration
- review annual work plans for PCU and each  Specialist
Management Services Contractor
- assess sub-project proposals for BZIF and
agroforestry services contracts
2/97               Supervision Mission                           - Natural Resources              6
- review accounting, procurement & MIS       Economist
- review  status  of Management Services  - Procurement/Administration
Contracts                                    Specialist
- review field personnel assignments and     - Social Scientist
progress toward establishing local advisory
committees
- review establishment of BZSIF and
agroforestry services activities
- assess progress on establishishing an semi-
autonomous parks management authority and
identifying mechanisms for sustained financing
of ecosystem protection
6/97               Supervision Mission                           - Agriculture [PM                4
- review  status of ranger corps &  police  - Natural Resources
assignment to reserves                       Economist
- review progress in redefining park/
reserve borders, delimitation, demarcation
- assess progress on policy reform



-60 -                               ANNEX D
10/97              Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture /TM               6
- review annual work plans and implementation  - Social Scientist
progress                                    - Park Conservation
- review park & reserve advisory councils and  Specialist
management plans
- review MIS system & indicators
2/98               Supervision Mission                         -Agriculture 1PM                4
- review status of legal review & reform of  - Environmental law
natural resource law
- assess impacts of BZIF and agroforestry
services contracts
6/98               Supervision Mission                         -Agriculture /TM                6
- review fiscalization of revenues study    - Institutional Development
- review SRF/SPNS/CRDA/DFPC mission         Specialist
statements, institutional status, strategic plans    - Natural Resource Fiscal
Policy Specialist
10/98              Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture TM                4
- review annual work plans and implementation   - Social Scientist
progress
- review park & reserve advisory councils and
implementation of management plans
2/99               Mid-Term Review                             - Agriculture fTM               10
- assess progress in meeting project objectives,   - Park Management Specialist
results and impacts and propose changes in  - Social Scientist
activities and/or financing                 - Public Administration
- assess progress towards establishing a semi-    Specialist
autonomous park management authority and    - Environmental Law
mechanisms to assure sustained financing for
ecosystem protection
- evaluate policy framework for natural
resources and parks management, and the
relative effectiveness of enforcment
6/99               Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture [fM               4
- review implementation of mid-term review  - Social Scientist
recommendations
10/99              Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture [IM               4
- review annual work plans and implementation   - Natural Resources
progress                                    Management Specialist
- review park & reserve advisory councils and
management plans
2/00               Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture /TM               4
- assess implementation of mid-term review  - Social Scientist
recommendations
- assess status of Advisory Councils
6/00               Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture /TM               4
- assess progress towards establishing a semi-    - Public Administration
autonomous park management authority and    Specialist
financial mechanisms to assure sustained
financing for park protection
- assess ideas concerning a follow-on project



-61-                                ANNEX D
10/00              Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture /TM               4
- review annual work plans and implementation   - Natural Resources
progress                                    Management Specialist
- review park & reserve advisory councils and
management plans
- assess progress on Government strategy to
sustain project activities and/or prepare a
follow-on project
- assess resource needs to implement the post-
project strategy and/or follow-on project
2/01               Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture /TM               6
- review impacts and lessons from           - Natural Resources
implementation of BZIF and agroforestry     Management Specialist
services contracts                          - Social Scientist
- assess progress on defining a post-project  - Parks Management
strategy and/or a follow-on project         Specialist
6/01               Supervision Mission                         - Agriculture /TM               2
- complete final project evaluation
- assess post-project strategy






ANNEX E
Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility:
Eligibility Principles






-65-
ANNEX E
HAITI
FOREST AND PARKS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility: Eligibility Principles
1.     Poverty Targeting: Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility (BZSIF) sub-projects will benefit the poor.
The types of eligible sub-projects will help ensure high coverage of poor people.
2.     Benericiary Participation: Sub-projects will be identified, designed and executed by beneficiary-groups
proposing the sub-projects.
3.     Bencficiary Cost-Sharing: The beneficiary group will be required to make a counterpart contribution,
either in cash or kind, towards financing of the project. This contribution will be no less than 20 percent of the
total cost of the project.
4.     Eligibility Criteria: The BZSIF will finance three categories of sub-projects within the buffer zones of
the project areas: (a) small income generation projects; (b) applied agricultural research; and (c) conservation of
public natural resources. Individuals may not propose projects and projects for individual benefit will not be
considered. The first category would include activities such as grain storage, agricultural transformation, input
retailing, credit, soil conservation, agroforestry, technical assistance or training. The second category would
include activities such as on-farm trials and testing techniques for transforming agricultural products. Peasant
membership organizations from within the buffer zones with a history of collective action will be eligible for
categories (a) and (b). The third category would include activities that generate or protect community-level public,
natural resources, such as soil conservation to protect public ravines, ecotourism development, and study tours,
technical assistance or training related to such activities. Local governments - at the Rural Section and Commune
level - %vithin the buffer zones will be eligible to submit proposals for category (b) Projects in category (c) would
conform to a local development plan approved by the Ministry of Environment.
5.     Project Sponsorship: The BZSIF will not sponsor projects. It will respond to the demand for projects.
The BZSIF will provide technical assistance to beneficiary groups to assist them in identifying and articulating
their project proposals.
6.     Project Implementation: The BZSIF will not implement the projects on its own, nor will it employ the
services of local contractors to implement the projects. The projects will be implemented by the beneficiary-group,
who - where appropriate - will employ the services of sub-contractors to assist in implementing the projects. These
sub-contractors would be chosen on a competitive basis and approved by the BZSIF.
7.     Sustainability: The BZSIF will not provide resources to supplement recurrent expenditures. BZSIF
support will be conditional upon confirmation that resources (private and public) will be made available to meet
recurrent expenditures.
8.     Complementarity: The BZSIF will collaborate with the Ministry of Environment, the Forest Resources
Service of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR), and the National
Parks and Natural Sites Service (MARNDR) to ensure complementarity of objectives.
9.     Project Size: Any sub-project exceeding US$50,000 will require the non-objection of the Bank.
10.    Project Costs and Benefits: Projects will employ least cost designs and deliver maximum benefits for a
given cost. Projects will be appraised according to standard methods of measuring costs and benefits.



I



-67-
Figure 1 - Pic Macaya National Park:
Location and downstream areas vulnerable to damage
Roe au                  Golf  de la Gonave C)|
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Baraderes
Parc Pic Macaya
CI~~~~~~ardcnnIeres ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     au-Mturn
~~~~~~~k                                                        N
Park area                           Irr     d areas Camp-Perrin
Anglai    b*  .6
Chard onrlbres                                        re   \e be on e
Port-a-Piment     Jr
nrt o  a     ee  that studedbFonfree in t a
Coteau  tr    -  BBera >: <~~~~~Le CaCyes
Roche-a-Bateau                                             rbeck>X \
Baie des Anglais                                                                            S t   aie desCayes
Port Salut}                    aSt Jean du Sud  
o                 10                20
4 j ~~~~~~~kmN
Oetail >, ~~~~~~~~~Park area                                    Irrigated areas 
S ; ,          >%zz            ~~~~~~~Park boundarie have rat been established. The pwk bounciaAs
2 R    ^  w    |       sho~~wNn are apprxidmat, basd on recommendations rnaed by the
3_  _ # g  SP  x   - s 1       ~~~~Univer ty of Flonrida tem  ftht studied biodiv rsity in th area
Location and extent of irrigated area are approximate.
I1      Only rivers which originate at least in part in the Pair area are shown.



-68-
Figure 2 - La Visite National Park:
Location and downstream areas vulnerable to damane
Golfe de la Gonave           Port-au-Prince                        Plaine)2 Cu[ d  Sac
Petionville
a   )   4t,             <                 ~~~~~~~~Kenscoff *      
Q   <                   ~~~~~~Furcyyg
Mome    -    ~~Moms            MOm.
Moms               la Vis its      Kadenoau
Jama                          Cayes-Jacmel         Mario  \>       -:
Caribbean Sea
0                        10                        20
N
km
~ z    | ;Park area                    Irrigated areas
Pas bourndarn  have not been eatabiehod. The park boundanes
eowmn ate aogrnst. bond an reommondatons made by the
U nudty of lbora taim that sluded bkxdversty in the area.
Loadon anetent o ifrigatd ars ars appxmate.
X  ~~~   O~etail                  Onw iet"s  which origm ate a( tu"t in pant in the Park are are swwn.



-69-
Figure 3 - Foret des Pins Forest Reserve
Location and downstream areas vulnerable to damage
Plaihe dU
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
\-;,. t sx aPFonds-Verreles\..
Boucan d'An' Wou
IOU*                                                         A~~~~~~~~~~~~
Selle-Anse    ,'
_      <,:                                ,         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ThiotteC
Caribbean Sea                                                         ,;(J
Grand-Gots;,                                (
,          ; ~ ~~ ~~0      5          1 0             >32
N
km                    A
aOa,,Forest area                                   C)
~~,__ m ~Irrigated areas
Current forest boundaries nave not ben BstaiIshed.
Much of the sorest area shonws a degraded.
& ea l~~Z.i j ]   Location awd aient ot irrigated areas are approxniate.
Onty nivers which oniginaten ri 0oie et area at Shown.Ptre






IBRD 28001
u SA
<t' _                                                                               r                                                      u _ _ c,.
l A ^ ^ - .u o.o I I b., .<s>; AN;l. 9 Ll- -':1mi 7 X~~~~ C                                                                                                                                                                           20 O'S  
FOES NDPAK POECIO A ROET  -1t S<29 \>lPormeloPort de Pa.o
CURA  -  -   --  )  - 6    O F.- o
t-::-. 1      N-- ,iDOMINICAN                                                     S.   co                                                                                -                                                                        U
MA, C  RPSJLIC
-- --5        ~PUERTO
JAMAICA                                RICO
HAITI                                                                                                                                                                                        S.~)Pa.oo~-
FOREST AND PARKS PROTECTION TA PROJECT                                                                                                                          )   r-L.o.n                         onld
-' Pine Forest                                                                                                                                  G                                                                                   -
Notional parks                                                                                   ~\ *                                                                                                            O'           Cn
*     Pine Forest management heodquarters                                                                                                            1           5       .p4
* Agroforestry exension sub-project
Ecologicol zones:                                                                                                                   G-     o-d.                   \,                       \*'                                 \    i
Very humid                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
Dry                                                                                                                                                                    P.R~d  AIb,
- ~-   Aneroge annuol roinfoll in mllimeters
* ~~Riners
- Main highways                                                                                                                                                                                                      h- df
Secondary roads
Tertiory roads
-    -   Internotlonal boundory                                                                                - *oChop.II.                                                                                          -          /
KILOMETERS 0       10     20      30      40       50                                                                                                                              'N -a .,                                         CoI,obo,
MILES 0            10          ZO            3O                                                                                -Ar
Don,. Mon .                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0j,
An.. OHo/nou  3  l<                                     <           2;                ?                                       \God                                    i_
_A- 6 V... ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      -n                                     ~        
A- V.  -11 ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ Cnk Ch. lds C000
d.oOnnOtno.o ond on,'~~~
#1,,. n toon uo   n ot                                                        _                                                                                                                                                                   >
,o,pln  on tAt. pO,A nA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LaO
rAt. w'ond Boork COi on                                  Pon              on  Po
boouldot,os.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .5.
74- 'r                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY 1996












