Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24710
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P9590; IDA-29200)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR15.0 MILLION (US$21.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR THE
FOREST & PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
12/30/2002
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2001)
Currency Unit = Gourde
I HTG = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.0 = 26.06
FISCAL YEAR
October 1   September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASSODLO         Haitian Association for Water and     GOH       Government of Haiti
Soil Assessment in the Rural Sector
(Association Haitienne potur la       IDA        lntemational Development
Maitrise des Eaux et des Sols en
Milieu Rural)
BZSIF           Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility  NEAP     National Environmental Action Plan
BME             Bureau of Mines and Energy          NGO         Non Governmental Organization
CARE            (US based Non Govermmental          MIARNDR     Ministry of Agriculture, of Natural
Organization)                                    Resources and of Rural Development
(Ministere de I 'Agriculture, des
Ressources Naturelles et du
Dt4veloppement Rural)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy          MOE        Ministry of Environment
CECI-FIDEL      Canadian Center for Intemational     SPNS       National Parks and Natural Sites
Studies and Cooperation - Investment             Service
Center for Local Development (Centre
canadien d'ttude et de Cooperation    SRF        Forest Resources Service
Internationale - Foyer
d 'Investissement pour le
Developpement Local (FIDEL)
CRDA            Agricultural Research and            PA?.-Z     Support Program to Small
Development Center (Centre de                    Investments in Buffer Zones
Recherche et de Developpement                    (Programme d'Appui aux Peth s
Agricole)                                       Investissements dans les Zones
Tampon)
DRN             Natural Resources Directorate
(Direction de Ressources Naturelles)
FAES            Social and Economic Assistance Fund   TPTC      Transport, Communications ard
(Fond d'Assistance Economique et                 Public Works (Travaux Publics
Sociale)                                         Transports et Communications)
FPPTA           Forest and Parks Protection Technical  USAID    United States Agency for
Assistance Project                               International Development
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director     Marco Mantovanelli/Orsalia Kalantzopouios
Sector Manager/Director:    Maria Teresa Serra/John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Elizabeth Monosowski



HAITI
FOREST & PARKS PROTECTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               7
6. Sustainability                                                                  12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 15
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              25
Map 1BRD 28001






Project ID: P007326                                      Project Name: FOREST & PARKS TA (TAL)
Team Leader: Elizabeth Monosowski                        TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: FOREST & PARKS TA (TAL)                       LIC/TFNumber: PPFI-P9590;
IDA-29200
Country/Department: HAM                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (38%); Forestry
(33%); Micro- and SME finance (15%); Agricultural
extension and research (14%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/15/1995                             Effective: 03/17/1997        08/29/1997
Appraisal:  01/22/1996                               MTR: 02/15/2000           02/22/2000
Approval:  09/17/1996                             Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF HAITI/MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
Other Partners:  Natural Resources Directorate (DRN) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural
Resources and Rural Development. Mines and Energy Bureau (BME) of the
Ministry of Works and Cornmunications (TPTC).
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                   Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Maria Teresa Serra                        Jonathan Parker
Team Leader at ICR:  Elizabeth Monosowski                     Daniel Moreau
ICR Primary Author:  Antoine V. Lema; Elizabeth
Monosowski
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: HUN
Institutional Development Impact: N
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of D)evelopment Objective and IDesign, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the Haiti Forest and Parks Protection Technical Assistance Project was to
initiate interventions for the protection of critical remnants of Haiti's forest ecosystems and to
slow the pace of degradation of its natural resources. The project was designed to support the
establishment of the institutional, policy and financial foundation for the Government of Haiti
(GOH) to promote protection of critical ecosystems on a national basis. The specific objectives
of the project were to:
(i)   provide institutional and technical support to the Ministry of Environment (MOE) and
related services within the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
Development (MARNDR) to strengthen the Government ' s capacity to develop, monitor
and implement a national forest and parks protection system;
(ii)  initiate key activities to protect and manage the La Visite and Pic Macaya National Parks,
and the Pine Forest National Forest Reserve; and
(iii) reduce pressure on the above-mentioned protected areas by increasing on-farm
productivity and off-farm employment options, and enhancing the management capacity of
local organizations in the buffer zones of the three targeted protected areas.
The project objectives were adequate as the first necessary steps in a long-term process, and
served to address the development priorities outlined in the CAS, by preparing projects to protect
and rehabilitate the environment in Haiti, while finding alternative solutions to the exploitation of
forests as an income generating option available to peasants.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no changes in the original project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
Project objectives were not formally revised and remained consistent with the 1996 CAS for
Haiti, which focused on: (i) redirecting the public sector to deliver basic social services; (ii)
assisting the government in implementing its economic reform program; and (iii) developing a
workable system of safety nets.
The project consisted of three major components:
(1)   Institutional Strenghening and Reform. (US$6.2 million)This component was designed
to: (a) strengthen the Ministry of Environment (MOE) through policy development and
establishment of an appropriate administrative framework for natural resources protection; and (b)
provide basic conservation training to park personnel, Government staff and local advisory
committees;
(2)   Support for Management of Forests and National Parks. (US$3.3 million)   This
component was to provide support for: (a) the development of a sustainable management system
for the existing Pine Forest National Reserve and the strengthening of the Forestry Service; (b)
-2-



the protection and sustainable management of the Pic Macaya and La Visite National Parks and
the Pine Forest National Reserve; and (c) strengthening of the Forest and Parks Service;
(3)   Support for Buffer Zone Development. (US$7.8 million) This component was designed
to reduce pressure on the reserves, diversify sources of local household incomes and enhance
environmental benefits in the buffer areas, through (a) provision of agro forestry, soil conservation
and agricultural extension services to farmers living in or near the reserves to rehabilitate natural
resources and boost productivity; and (b) provision of technical assistance and financing to assist
farming communities with the design and implementation of small investment subprojects through
a participatory planning process.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project objectives were sound and consistent with the general objectives of the Country
Assistance Strategy and overall development aims for the country. The design of the project was
also focused on achieving the stated objectives, with a special emphasis on promoting the
decentralization of park management to local institutions.  The project would also pilot
decentralized approaches for a larger proposed rural development project to follow. Nevertheless,
there was a disconnect between the modest development objectives that recognized the difficult
process of policy shift in Haiti, and the over ambitious expected outputs in light of the severe
institutional constraints, absorptive capacities and governance issues in Haiti. For example, the
key political decision to move both the Park Service and the Forest Service from the Ministry of
Agriculture to the Ministry of Environment was only taken by the second year of project
implementation. The project design also neglected to include adequate measures to address: (a)
the lack of capacity within the MOE and the Agricultural Research and Development Center
(CRDA) to work in an effective participatory manner with local community organizations and
NGOs in the implementation of buffer zone development and resource management activities; and
(b) the unrealistically high levels of counterpart funding expected from the GOH. Finally, the
project could have approached more systematically the issue of rural development in the buffer
zones around the parks. Therefore, the Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactorv.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactorv, as ultimately the overall project
objectives were not achieved. Nevertheless, there was good progress in project implementation up
until the mid-term review, in spite of the increasing political disturbances that the country faced.
Although the project was able to initiate interventions for the protection of critical remnants of
Haiti's forest ecosystems, there is no evidence that it had slowed the pace of degradation of its
natural resources.
(i)   the specific objective of strengthening the Government's capacity to develop, monitor and
implement a national forest and parks protection system was partially met during the project
implementation, but this capacity seems to have eroded rapidly after the project closure. The
- 3-



project failed to achieve the establishment of a comprehensive legal and organizational framework
related to the management of protected areas in Haiti specifying the role of local communities,
civil society and the Government;
(ii)  key activities to protect and manage the La Visite and Pic Macaya National Parks, and the
Pine Forest National Forest Reserve were initiated under the project, but there is no evidence that
they have continued after the project closure; and
(iii)  the specific objective of reducing the pressure on the protected areas by increasing
on-farm productivity and off-farm employment options, and enhancing the management capacity
of local organizations in the buffer zones of the three targeted protected areas was partially met;
given the limited implementation of some of these mechanisms, there is no evidence that a critical
mass has been reached that could promote sustainable changes in the behaviors of farmers in the
buffer zones.
Despite these shortcomings, the project managed to produce several positive results. The main
positive outcomes of the project included the following:
(i)   execution of fourteen studies elucidating various issues related to the management of
protected areas, including, environmental, social and institutional assessments that provided
guidance on priorities for project implementation and contributed to the National Environmental
Action Plan of Haiti;
(ii)  preparation of a new legal and institutional framework for the co-management of
protected areas; although not yet adopted formally, this framework oriented pilot actions in the
protected areas and buffer zones;
(iii)  introduction and establishment of the concept of participatory management of natural
resources at the local as well as at the national level as a project implementation tool;
(iv)  establishment of the geographical boundaries of the forest reserve and two national parks
under the project;
(v)   establishment of community-based surveillance systems for protected areas to complement
Government surveillance;
(vi)  implementation of NGO activities in the buffer zones to deliver relevant development
services to local communities and individual investors;
(vii)  development and dissemination of a management, monitoring and evaluation system to
the various stakeholders of the project; and
(viii)  provision of the necessary logistics for the relevant government administrations and
NGOs in the form of office buildings, information technology equipment (computers, phones,
faxes) and means of transportation (cars, motorcycles) to facilitate and strengthen their
-4 -



performance.
While the results attained are for the most part satisfactory, their overall applicability and
contribution to the achievement of project development objectives can be questioned. In addition,
given the impossibility of carrying out field visits to assess project results, the overall benefits
accruing to beneficiaries from the project could not be verified. Moreover, the PCU provided
mostly quantitative evidence of implementation of some of the key activities, without providing
more qualitative information on outputs and outcomes which would have assisted in the process
of evaluating the degree to which project objectives were achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The components were designed to address technical assistance, technical and policy studies,
training, equipment, limited works and incremental operation costs required to achieve the
objectives of the project. Specific outputs by component included the following:
(i)   Institutional Strengthening and Reform.  (Satisfactory)  This component produced
concrete outputs, including: (a) a study on the legal and administrative framework of the project,
resulting in the design of new institutional arrangements for park management, and the
development and amendment of a legal framework for the co-management of protected areas; (b)
capacity building in the sector, through training of 58 agro forestry extension agents in
environmental conservation and management, mid-career courses for agronomists and technicians,
and organization of bi-national workshops with the Dominican Republic on the management of
protected areas. Also, three scholarships to initiate studies for masters degrees were also
delivered. In addition, all extension agents of the project received training in GPS and database
management.
(ii)   Support for the Management of Forest and National Parks (Foret de Pins, Parc La Visite
and Parc Pic Macaya). (Partially satisfactory) The outputs of this component, while limited,
provide the basis for future operations in managing protected areas in Haiti. They inciuded the
design of environmental management plans for each of the parks and the forest reserve; boundary
delimitation and mapping of each of the three protected areas; the creation of forest protection
teams and advisory councils to monitor forest regeneration activities; and the installation of fire
prevention systems.
(iii) Support for Buffer Zone Development. (Unsatisfactory) The outputs of this component
in terms of poverty alleviation and its environmental impacts are less tangible. Nevertheless,
several specific outputs can be cited:
(a) A social assessment of communities in the buffer zones of the protected areas
was conducted. Five advisory councils were created and remained operational until
the subsequent unilateral suspension of project activities by the government (April
2001). The project contributed to the creation of the association Organization
Destination Djondjon to boost eco-tourism in national parks and forest reserves in
Haiti. Selected representatives from farmers' associations were trained in eco-tourism
and made a stuc4y tour to the Island of Guadeloupe. Hiking trails were established in
each of the protected areas. In addition, the cottages of the Pine Forest National
- 5 -



Reserve were renovated to receive tourists; and
(b) A development fund established for the communidties n the buffer zones of the
protected areas had limited success in meeting the targets set by the project: only 123
sub-projects were implemented, representing roughly 25% of the funds allocated for
this purpose. The fund financed six programs in: (a) environmental management (55
environmental management subprojects including soil conservation, plantation of fruit
trees and coffee plants); (b) physical infrastructure (14 physical infrastructure projects,
among others, road rehabilitation and provision of potable water to local
communities); (c) agricultural production (10 agricultural subprojects focusing on the
transformation and preservation of agricultural products); (d) animal husbandry (4
animal husbandry subprojects aimed at improving breeds); (e) agricultural research and
development (8 subprojects) and (f) micro-credit (32 micro-credit subprojects to
strengthen productive investments by local groups). The socio-economic mitigation
measures planned to enhance the livelihoods of local communities in the buffer zones,
however, could not efficiently reduce social pressure on the protected areas as the
benefits derived from the illegal cutting of pine trees often exceeded potential benefits
of alternative income-generating projects.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated Neghigible. There was no
permanent institutional development impact, in spite of some positive contributions to the
in-country technical capacity for managing forests and protected areas.  The major
beneficiaries of the project were the Park Services under the Ministry of Environment and, to
a lesser extent, the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development.
Positive features in institutional development were:
(i)   strengthening of technical and administrative capacity of individuals at the national and
local levels;
(ii)   hiring of competent staff by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to implement the
project;
(iii) involvement of NGOs, the private sector, national and local authorities in participatory
management of protected areas; and
(iv)   support for the creation of an association that focuses on the valorization of Haitian
ecosystems through the promotion of eco-tourism.
-6 -



Despite these positive contributions, it is worth noting that the limited institutional capacity
overall could hinder the sustainability or implementation of these features. Of particular concern
were the following limitations to overall institutional development impact:
(i)   lack of sustained cooperation between MOE and partner institutions/NGOs in executing
project activities;
(ii)  government's failure to meet its contractual commitments with NGOs, which had to
finance ongoing project activities with their own funds and were neither paid nor
reimbursed following suspension of IDA disbursements in January 2001, leading to
significant weakening of their financial and operational capacities;
(iii)  firing of staff following the project's suspension in June 30, 2001 and, thus, any technical
know-how developed during project implementation has not been absorbed by the key
implementing agencies;
(iv)  lack of accountability on the allocation, use and maintenance of the equipment and
vehicles provided for the project; and
(v)   potential loss of the project institutional memory due to poor conservation and archiving
of the documentation produced.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During preparation of the project concept document (PCD) and at appraisal, the political changes
and instability that would affect Haiti and the ramifications for project implementation could not
be foreseen. Indeed, the project counted with significant political support, being the only new
Bank-funded activity approved by the Parliament since the early 90s, in July 1997. Shortly
thereafter the parliament stopped functioning.
Two years after effectiveness, political unrest took hold of Haiti disrupting social cohesion and
deteriorating the security situation. The entire Haiti portfolio was affected by instability, civil
unrest and political crisis. There was a significant reduction in new external assistance,
particularly from international financial institutions whose credits and loans must be ratified by
parliament. The political stalemate following the May 2000 contested elections brought the
country to a virtual halt and compounded the' weak economic situation of Haiti. The deterioration
of the security conditions affected the field work and limited IDA supervision missions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors that limited project performance include:
Ownership by the Government: The loss of the strong ownership which characterized the early
implementation phase due to frequent changes in MOE's key positions had a major negative
impact on the project implementation. Initially, the project preparation had a strong support of the
recently created Ministry of Environment (MOE), which saw in it a major opportunity for
- 7-



consolidating its existence and for building its capacity. Although the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR) was in charge of the Park Service and of
the Forest Service at the time, it has never given support to those units and was not involved in
project preparation. Nevertheless, MARNDR resisted pressures from donors and the Prime
Minister to transfer these functions to the MOE. This transfer finally took place two years down
the project implementation with the support of a coalition that included MOE, technical levels at
MARNDR, civil society and the private sector (This coalition would later become a real
constituency for the decentralized management of parks in Haiti).
Frequent changes of leadership: the political instability produced constant changes at the head of
the MOE, thus weakening the original commitment of the institution to the project objectives and
design, creating discontinuity in the process of establishing strategic partnerships with the
administration and limiting access to institutional memories. During project implementation, the
Ministry of Environment was led by five ministers, plus two interim ministers, contributing to a
dramatic erosion of ownership from the MOE. In March 2001, the Minister of Environment
decided for the unilateral suspension of all project activities while an evaluation commission
prepared an internal report, and announced his intention to promote major changes in both the
project substance and management without adequate consultation with IDA, and despite the
proximity with the closing date.
Failure of government to fulfill itsfinancial commitments: The generalized failure of the Central
Government to fulfill its financial commitments affected negatively the project since the beginning,
with constant delays in implementation due to the lack of counterpart funding. The situation
became critical in January 2001, when IDA suspended Haiti's rights of withdrawal under IDA
credits due to non-payment of outstanding IDA arrears. This fact, combined with the unilateral
suspension of the project activities by the MOE for an undetermined period, led to IDA's decision
to suspend all project activities until the project's closure on December 31, 2001. In June 2001,
IDA approved a partial cancellation of the SDRs 3,412,021 million affected by the referred
suspension. The PCU was accordingly instructed to stop all project activities, close the project's
office, transfer all the project assets and documentation to the Director General of the Ministry of
Environment by June 29, 2001. IDA requested MOE to provide immediately a final progress
report, a final statement on the special account funds and the destination of the project assets
(vehicles, equipment), to meet the pending commitments with its consultants and providers, and
to proceed with the final project audit. In spite of several efforts to contact the MOE, those
requests went unanswered to date.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Tensions between the PCU and MOE: The decision to establish a separate PCU stemmed from
the fact that at project effectiveness the MOE was not yet fully established (i.e. did not have its
organic law) nor had the formal mandate over the parks and forests (still under the MARNDR
jurisdiction). Admittedly, there where conflicts of interest and tensions between various
government bodies regarding the management of the project. An independent PCU could equally
serve both Ministries and possibly help them to strengthen their coordination. However, the PCU
never developed a strategic partnership with any Ministry. Moreover, its lack of interaction with
the beneficiary institutions contributed to a sense of alienation, in particular with respect to the
MOE. The emphasis of the PCU on decentralizing the parks management clashed with the
-8 -



priorities of the Ministers, unwilling to relinquish power to the local authorities and focused rather
on building the central administration capacities. Pressures increased to use project resources to
support routine MOE activities out of the project scope, including hiring of political appointees,
personal use of project vehicles, displacement of equipment, etc. The lack of commitment from
the last administration of the Ministry of Environment to resolve differences with the PCU led to
the abrupt decision from MOE'to suspend all project activities and disbursements until an internal
review could be carried out, against the advice of the Bank team.
Project complexity: The nature and complexity of the project was not fully understood by all the
partners. As an institutional reform project, there was a difficulty in foreseeing, during the project
preparation phase, the reforms and institutional adjustments that would be necessary for its
implementation. This contrasted with the lack of long-term perspective within the Ministry of
Environment and other Government agencies, that generally considered the project as a
single-standing, five-year operation. An example is the failure by the Forest Resource Service
(SRF) and the National Parks and Natural Sites Service (SPNS) to establish efficient and
economically viable organizational arrangements for the management of protected areas. The
arrangements proved to be more expensive than what the budget could cover, as the cost for
salaries became significant and could not be covered by Government's budget after project
implementation.
Poor administrative capacity: The project involved a large number of project implementing
agencies without consideration of the poor administrative capacity to coordinate their activities
and supervise the quality of outputs. The lack of strong coordination lead to fragmentation in a
decentralized program with local actions executed by diverse independent executing agencies and
stakeholders. Inadequate monitoring and supervision of project activities was fostered by the
deterioration of the security situation, which constrained the ability of both the PCU and Bank
teams to carry out field visits. The Government-sponsored surveillance system for protected areas
was inefficient, tainted by allegations of corruption and unable to coordinate with the local
communities.
Slow disbursements: A complex system for distribution of project funds combined to the lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures by the PCU led to constant delays in the disbursement of project
funds. Procurement was also slow: for example, contracting out extension services with local
NGOs took much longer than expected. Second, the project met resistance from MARNDR about
the transfer of the buffer zones development fund to a third party (Fonds d'Assistance
Economique et Sociale- FAES-), as the Ministry wanted to manage such fund in-house.
Breakdown of communications among agencies fostered by personal animosities were frequent,
slowing down project implementation and requiring continuous mediation from the Bank team.
Unclear role of FAES/PAPIZ as a pilot for a more ambitious rural development fund: The
creation of a demand-driven rural development fund under FAES had the objective of broadening
FAES scope into rural development funding. At the time FAES had a positive record in managing
urban infrastructure projects, but no experience with rural projects. The PAPIZ would allow to
build FAES' capacity in this domain while providing incentives for the conservation and
sustainable use of the buffer zones, thus reducing the pressures on the forests and parks'
-9-



resources. However, the identification and preparation of such projects was at the charge of the
NGOs providing the extension services, with no clear mechanism to establish a significant pipeline
of small environmental projects. Moreover, there have been constraints to disbursement from the
PCU to FAES/PAPIZ, caused by lack of documentation of previous expenses by PAPIZ and
irregularities on managing the FAES special account. This situation took a long time to be sorted
out between FAES, the PCU and the Bank, and new deposits to the FAES Special account
remained suspended meanwhile, thus limiting the investment capacity on sub-projects. The issue
was finally resolved shortly before the suspension of Bank disbursements in January 2001.
Other factors that limited project performance include:
(i)   costly management plans which exceeded budget provisions. The implementation of these
plans involved contracting many services and increased expenses related to the salary
component of the budget, thus reducing resources for other components such as
monitoring and supervision of services for operations executed;
(ii)  a large number of sub - contractors, some of whom tried to assume functions that did not
match their organizational structure, while others did not have the social capital to execute
their terms of reference;
(iii)  a procurement arrangement which forced NGOs to cover their expenses against
reimbursements had an adverse effect when the government was unable to meet its
commitments and pay the NGOs for their services after the suspension of disbursements in
January 2001; and
(iv)  failure to establish financial mechanisms that would ensure continuity in the management
of protected areas beyond the project period.
Factors that had positive impacts on project implementation include:
(i)   the initial political will and commitment of the Government (mostly from the Ministry of
Finance, and Ministry of Environment) to execute the project;
(ii)  the national pride associated with the two parks and the forest reserve fostered the
constitution of a real constituency for their protection and management;
(iii)  an independent Project Coordination Unit (de-linked from the MOE) provided a certain
level of political neutrality, independence and efficiency;
(iv)  the appointment of technically qualified and committed project management staff;
(v)   the participation of NGOs and local communities in park management and administration,
as well as extension activities;
(vi)  reliance on the Social and Economic Assistance Fund (FAES), an institution with capacity
to manage funds and deliver them through activities in the field, particularly with regard to
-10-



the buffer zone component; and
(vii)  the satisfactory performance of the financial management system and the procurement
capacity of the PCU, which benefited from contracts with two specialized foreign staff.
This represented, however, high costs to the project and had limited impact on fostering
local skills in these areas.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were estimated during appraisal at US$22.5 million (SDR 15 million
equivalent), of which US$21.5 million would be funded from IDA credits, US$0.5 million from
Government counterpart financing, and US$0.5 million from beneficiaries. See Annexes 2(a) and
2(c) for a break-down of costs and financing. The project disbursed a total of SDR1 1.8 Million,
and about SDR3.21 million were cancelled in June 30, 2001. The amount of SDR552,772.41
corresponding to the deposits on the special account remains unaccounted for, to date.
It was not possible to establish a complete picture of the project's financial situation at its closure,
as the GoH did not respond to repeated Bank requests that a final audit be immediately
undertaken at project closure. Moreover, no final SOE was provided on the subsequent use of
the funds deposited in the special account at the time of suspension of disbursements to Haiti.
Project records and documentation were turned over to the Director General of the MOE by the
PCU coordinator in July 2001, once the PCU offices were closed.
Throughout the project period, the GoH consistently failed to deliver its financial counterpart
funding to the project. Moreover, the project did not succeed in establishing a financial
mechanism that would have secured mid- and long-term coverage of recurrent costs of
biodiversity protection initiated by Bank funding. Upon the project's suspension and following
closure, the GoH failed to meet its contractual commitments. Three NGOs provided extension
services to the project - CARE, ASSODLO and CECI-FIDEL - under contracts that required
them to use their own resources and later be reimbursed by the project, an arrangement Which
proved to be detrimental to the NGOs. They suffered major financial losses upon the GoH's
refusal to recognize its debt. This situation resulted in a substantial reduction of their financial
capacities, to the extent of compromising their very survival as institutions. Successive requests
from the Bank to the Government to fulfill its contractual obligations and proceed with the
payments for the NGO's services went unanswered.
Two graduate students (MS) whose studies were being financed by the project ended up stranded
in the USA, as the GoH did not honor their subsistence and fellowship payments upon the
project's suspension. In the Bank's notification of the suspension of disbursements to Haiti,
provisions were made to create an exception for such cases. However, the MOE did not react to
the Bank's several requests for authorization to proceed with the direct payment of the students'
repatriation expenses, thus allowing them and their families to return to Haiti. There was no
further information about the fate of these two students.
- 1 1 -



6. Sustaimability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the activities undertaken through this project is highly unlikely. The key
impediments to the sustainability of project impacts were the suspension of the project by the
Government, its sudden closure and the absence of a financial mechanism to ensure the continuity
of local management of parks. Furthermore, some of the institutional and co-management
arrangements proved to be difficult to sustain in the absence of government ownership and
constant Bank supervision.
The strengthening of social capital through the training of 58 agro-forestry technicians (extension
agents), as well as specific interventions of NGOs in communities could potentially have made a
positive contribution to the sustainability of the project concept by consolidating a common
understanding among stakeholders of the need for decentralized, participatory management of
parks and forests and of the potential benefits to the populations involved In the long run and
under different political conditions, this might prove to be an useful and lasting outcome of the
project.
The project's positive impacts on the protection of the areas is likely to be short-lived, because no
financial arrangements were made to sustain operations after the project's closure. Furthermore,
there is no evidence that suggests that the practices promoted in the buffer zones and protected
areas aimed at deterring deforestation would be carried out by the beneficiaries after project
closure. The gains made in institutional strengthening could only be productive if the trained
professionals were provided opportunities to practice their skills by participating in the future
management of the three protected areas. However, in the absence of sustained operations, the
gains made in institutional strengthening are likely to fade away.
Given the pilot nature of the FPPTA as an institutional reform project, the lessons learned on
approaches to addressing natural resource degradation in Haiti might become a more useful asset
than sustainability in terms of pilot operations and pilot impacts.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Despite the fact that at one point in time the Minister of Finance expressed his interest for a Bank
financed follow-up operation to the Forest and Parks Project, the deteriorating circumstances in
the latter part of project execution hampered any sustainability and basic conditions for
subsequent interventions. Given the sudden closure of the project and the difficult security
situation in Haiti, no completion arrangements nor transition arrangements were established.
Continued dialogue with the GoH will be needed on the part of the Bank, USAID, the NGO
Organisation Destination Djondjon, CARE, ASSODLO, CECI-FIDEL and other stakeholders to
ensure long term investments in the sector. To the extent that the project strengthened the
institutional capacity of stakeholders, there is a modest social capital on which future operations
could be built.
- 12 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project preparation is considered satisfactory.  During project
identification and preparation, the Bank's task team provided strong analytical skills in reviewing
the history of protected area management in Haiti, assessing gaps, identifying the institutional
shortcomings. It also supported consulting with key stakeholders. The team suggested an
adequate project design based on the strengthening of the social capital and the physical
infrastructure, and in line with the CAS. In particular, the Bank task team recognized the
negative synergy between protection of biodiversity and poverty and responded by adding a social
component to the project, aiming at enhancing the livelihoods of the buffer zone populations in
and around the Parc La Visite, the Parc Pic Macaya and the Foret de Pins. The continuous
presence of the task manager in the field during project preparation and the contacts he developed
while living in Haiti was extremely important in providing an enabling environment that allowed
for the implementation of preparatory activities and for facilitating institutional coordination.
Still, the project was over-dimensioned for the implementation capacity of GOH thus requiring an
unsustainable level of supervision once the Task Manager left Haiti for Washington DC.
7.2 Supervision:
Although the task manager was able to sustain a high level of supervision through his network of
Haitian contacts, the Bank presence in the country eroded through time. Starting in 2000, Bank
performance became progressively hindered by the increasing security constraints to conducting
adequate supervision and the lack of viable alternatives to respond to a deteriorating situation.
Following project effectiveness, the Bank team engaged in intensive supervision, which
contributed to the satisfactory implementation of the project: from August 1997 to January 2001,
ten full supervision missions were conducted. The frequency of these missions was usually
scheduled to assist the FPPTA to address operational issues efficiently and in a timely fashion. In
addition, the Bank task team was particularly innovative in its advice to strengthen the social
capital of the sector by initiating the organization of a bi-national workshop between Haitian
technicians of protected areas and technicians from the neighboring Dominican Republic, and by
initiating the study visit of Haitian farmers to Guadeloupe to get acquainted with eco-tourism.
The commitment of the Bank team to continue supervision despite a deteriorating security
situation provided critical support to project management staff, thus contributing to maintain
progress in project implementation in a difficult political environment. The Bank task team
carefully monitored and appraised the effects of these political disruptions on project operations
and provided strategic and operational advice to minimize adverse impacts as possible. However,
further deterioration of the security conditions made it impossible to undertake field visits after
January 2000, and all non-essential missions to Haiti were suspended after November 2000.
During supervision missions, the Project benefited from a good skills mix of specialists including
expertise on institutional development, management of protected areas, trust funds, agricultural
extension and rural development funds. Their knowledge and recommendations, particularly
during the midterm review, provided the basis for the necessary adjustments in project design and
- 13 -



funding allocations.
A major setback was the long inactivity gap in project supervision when the task team leader
departed in January 2000. A new TTL was designated in April 2000, but did not benefit from a
clear handover process. The security situation in Haiti deteriorated significantly with the elections
of May'2000 and the violence that ensued, all but eliminating the possibility of field visits. Next,
even visits to Port-au-Prince became hazardous according to the UN security system, which
suspended all non-essential missions to the country with increasing frequency. The suspension of
disbursements of January 2001 and the breakdown of dialogue with the GOH were extremely
detrimental to the project implementation, and hastened the suspension of all project activities and
the PCU closure in June 2001.
The preparation of this ICR was also hampered by the political violence and general insecurity in
Haiti, which prompted the suspension of all non-essential missions to Haiti since August 2001.
Faced with the impossibility to visit the country for the ICR preparation, the team has relied on
the information gathered by local consultants and available at IDA headquarters.  Other
constraints in assessing the outcomes to this project included the absence of the final financial
audits, lack of project files and proper documentation, and the breakdown in communications
with the MOE, which did not respond to several requests on progress reporting and fiduciary
matters.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank performance is rated satisfactory given the positive performance during project
preparation and through most of the supervision process.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower commitment and involvement during preparation was satisfactory. Initially, the project
enjoyed strong support from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of Environment. The three Ministries saw the Project as the Government's key initiative in
environmental management and a pilot for rural development. There was a significant involvement
of local specialists in the 14 preparatory studies, interacting with international consultants.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance was highly unsatisfactory, despite the initial strong political
support expressed by three Ministries. Indeed, the Project was executed under a period of national
political disruptions in Haiti which entailed constant changes at the top of the executing
institutions. For example, five Ministers of Environment were nominated during the first three
years of project's implementation, and there was an inadequate flow of counterpart funds for the
Project. Consequently, the PCU had to "sell" the Project to each new administration and its
Minister. That process resulted in decision making setbacks and delays in the execution of project
operations. Ongoing tensions due to the autonomy of the PCU and political differences between
the Minister and the PCU led to unilateral project suspension.
Finally, the impact of the political turmoil and the economic crisis, combined with the lack of
ownership and commitment by the GoH led to the decision to suspend the project's operations in
- 14 -



June 2001, six months earlier than the original closing date of December 2001. Since then, the
GoH has not responded to several attempts by the Bank team to conduct an orderly closure
process and consistently failed in its fiduciary and contractual responsibilities. In particular, there
was no response to the Bank several requests that the GoH proceed with the project's final audit
and for a full accounting of the US$700,000 from the special account. Furthermore, the lack of
payment for services provided by contractors and NGOs has created a reputational risk for the
Bank.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PCU was satisfactorv. The unit succeeded in performing well despite the
recurrent political tunnoil and the frequent changes in the MOE political leadership. The PCU
benefited from a highly competent staff with a solid professional culture. Likewise, its field staff
proved to be very professional and committed to implementing the project. The NGOs contracted
were also highly qualified and showed solid professionalism in executing their tasks. The financial
and the administrative project monitoring system set up by the PCU and the MOE, produced an
effective management of project resources, although as stated above, keeping highly qualified
foreign staff to monitor the financial management and procurement systems of the project had a
very high cost.
However, the PCU failed to communicate with the technical staff and middle management of the
beneficiary institutions and to adjust the project tasks to fulfill their specific needs. There is a
perception that the Bank seemed to have more control on the work of the PCU than the Haitian
authorities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
(1) Management of Protected Areas and Povertv Alleviation
The correlation between poverty and environmental degradation was and still is very clear in
Haiti, particularly since more than 70% of the population live in rural areas. The poor live off the
land and depend on the extractive use of natural resources for their subsistence. Success of
projects concerned with the management of protected areas is contingent on improving the
livelihood of the local communities living in and around the protected areas. However, while the
Bank's objectives have been consistent with Haiti's major economic problems, the failure to solve
the political and governance issues undermined the possibility of sustained change in specific
sectors. Thus, IDA and other donor interventions in the agricultural and environmental areas
have failed for the most part to curtail environmental and natural resource degradation.
(2) Institutional framework
The building of social capital in a sector should be supported by the financial engagement of the
Government. Although defined as units serving the government, project management units
should be "politically solvent" institutions designed to fiulfill project objectives. To translate this
lesson into project preparation and project design is not easy, but the concept of politically solvent
- 15 -



project management units could at least be negotiated during project preparation. If everything
else fails in the implementation of project operations, strengthening the social capital could assure
continuity and correct past mistakes.
(3) Staffing
Successful project implementation requires highly qualified and committed staff. Project staff,
whether temporary or permanent should be hired on their professional merits and on their
demonstrated commitment to addressing enviromnental issues. A core group of qualified
"permanent" staff should be hired to constitute the backbone of the project, particularly in
countries with a history of recurrent political disturbances. However, there should be mechanisms
for ensunng that the technical knowledge and skills would be eventually absorbed by the staff in
the executing agency. Consultants may come in to give an injection to enhance project
performance, but the daily challenges must be addressed by a "permanent" staff till the closure of
the project.
(4) Participatorv Approach
Local communities, NGOs, private sector and state partnership can be successful when the role of
each actor and their spheres of convergence are well specified. The partnership in FTTPA
strengthened the project's collective ownership at the local level and made project implementation
more efficient. Also, it became evident that external financial support was a very important factor
in facilitating the partnership. In the absence of external financial partners, NGOs should not be
encouraged to pre-finance their work with their own resources, because the risk of losing their
financial capacity is substantial.
(5) Sustainability
Government counterpart funding and support is imperative for the ownership and sustainability of
the project. The abrupt unilateral closure of the project by the Government of Haiti without
consulting the Bank demonstrated the need for accountability and the risk involved in piloting
institutional reform projects in a shaky political situation. The financial set-up established by the
project was unsustainable in the long term, in the absence of a proposed private trust fund for
protected areas to be created with GEF support and that finally did not materialize.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No Comments from the Borrower were received.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additionza Information
N/A
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Component                Indicator          Target (appraisal)       Target (actual)
Institutional Strengthening Number of agencies    4 associate agencies    0
effectively using strategic
planning and budgeting
Number of persons trained  60 new forest and park  58 agro-forestry extension
by category                 technicians;           agents trained in
forestlpark
management and GPS/
database
management;
10 natural resource      mid-career
specialists (MS)      courses for agronomists
Forest and Parks        Percentage of boundaries  100%                  100%
Management              established
Number of advisory councils  3 councils           0 (up to five were
functioning effectively                              established but all
were non-functioning
by project closing)
Number of park and forest   3 teams                0
ranger teams functioning
. _____________________  effectively
Buffer Zone Development Technology adoption rate  4,050 farms with agro  3,874 farms with agro
forestry configurations  forestry configurations
Number of subprojects    2,050 farms using soil  2,583 farms using soil
financed and successfully  conservation techniques  conservation techniques
functioning
1,050 farms introduce  1,891 farms introduce crop
crop diversification  diversification
250 subprojects      Six programs/123
functioning effectively subprojects funded
-17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 1: Project Cost by Com onent   (US$ millions equivalent)
Project Comrponent      Appraisal Estimate     Actual *
Institutional Strengthening           7.5          Not available
Forest and Parks Management           3.9          Not available
Buffer Zone Development               9.1          Not available
Project Preparation Facility          2.0           Not available
Total                                22.5          Not available
*Information on actual costs by component is not available.
Table 2: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate annd Actual)
(US$ milon equivalent)
Expenditure           Procurement Method                   Procurement Method
Categories            A praisal Est iate                 _       Actnal *
ICB NCB     Other    NBF     Total     ICB   NCB   Other ND3IF   Total
1. Goods                     1.8             1.8                                   1.1
_             (1.8)           (1.8)
2. Works                     0.5             0.5                                    0.5
(0.5)           (0-5)                     _
3. CS and                    12.9            12.9                                   6.1
Training                    (12.9)           12.9)
4. Project Unit              2.6             2.6                                    2.0
Op. Costs            _      (2.1)   _       (2.1)
5. Mgt.                      4.7             4.7                                    3.6
Service                     (4.2)           (4.2)
6. Refunds                                                                          1.2
7. Unallocated  _                                 .                       _         0.0
Total                        22.5            22.5                                 14.5
_________     ___       (21.5)   ___    (21.)______
*Information on actual costs by procurement method is not available. Actual costs only reflect IDA credit
disbursements. In addition, the project's Special Account currently has a balance of approximately US$0.8
million, which has not been documented.
- 18 -



Table 3: Project Financing by Category (US$ million ec uivalent)
Component           4ppraisal Estimated         Actual *        Percentage of Appraisal
IDA   Gov.    Benef.  IDA     Gov.   Benef.   IDA    Gov.   Benef.
Goods               1.8                    1.1                    61.1
Works               0.5                    0.5                   100.0
CS and Training    12.9                    6.1                    47.3
Project Unit Op.    2.1   0.5              2.0                    95.2
Costs
Management          4.2           0.5       3.6                   85.7
Services               I
Refunds                                     1.2
Unallocated         _                       0.0
Total              21.5   0.5     0.5     14.5
* Information on government and beneficiary project financing by component is not available.
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Beneflts
N/A
-20-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage-of Project-Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                 Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
05/95                    1   1 ECONOMIST
06/95                    1   1 TASK LEADER
07/95                    6   1 TASK LEADER, 1
ECONOMIST, 1 FORESTER, 1
PARK MNGMT. SP., 1 AGRO
ECOLOGIST, 1 ENERGY SP.
09/95                    4   1 TASK LEADER, 1
ECONOMIST, I
SOCIOLOGIST, 1 RURAL SP.
10/95                    1   1 BIODIVERSITY SP.
12/95                    1   1 TASK LEADER
01/96                    6   1 TASK LEADER, I COUNTRY
STAFF, 2 AGRIC.
ECONOMIST; 1 INST. DEV.
SP., 1 PROCUREMENT SP.
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/96                    5    1 TASK LEADER, 1
ENERGY SP., I SOC.
SCIENTIST, 1
ECONOMIST, 1
AGRONOMIST
Supervision
03/07/1997               3   TASK MANAGER (1);              S           S
FORESTRY (1);
BIO-DIVERSITY (1)
06/27/1997               3   TASK MANAGER (1);              S           S
FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
(1)
12/15/1997               4   TASK MANAGER (1);              S           S
ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
(1); SEN. AGRICULTURIST
(1); AG. ECONOMIST (1)
04/17/1998               1   TASK MANAGER (1)               S           U
10/29/1998               4   TEAM LEADER (1);               S           S
FORESTER (FAO) (1); LEGAL
SPECIALIST (FAO) (1); AG.
ECON. (TRUST FUND) (1)
-21 -



12/06/1998                  1   TEAM LEADER (1)                   S             S
05/28/1999                  4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S            S
ANTHROPOLOGIST (1); SR.
AGRONOMIST (1); AG.
ECONOMIST (1)
11/06/1999                  3   TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL            S             S
DEVELOPMENT (1);
INSTITUTIONS/FINANCE (1)
09/29/2000                  2   TASK LEADER (1);                   S            5
ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
01/22/2001                 1   TASK LEADER (1)                   U             S
06/12/2001 *                1   TASK LEADER (1)                    S            S
08/01/2001*                 1   TASK LEADER (1)                   U             u
ICR
06/28/02                    2    INSTITUTIONAL
SPECLALIST (1);
AGRICULTURAL
SPECIALIST (1)
 Date of PSR only (no associated site visit)
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               257                        433
Appraisal/Negotiation                    118                        226
Supervision                              105                        320
ICR                                        5                         37
Total                                    485                       1,016
(Identification/Preparation took place from 1992-96)
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM     O N   * NA
LI Sector Policies                    OH   OSUOM     ON O NA
LI Physical                           OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
L Financial                           OH   OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Institutional Development           O H O SU O M O N     0 NA
L Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
L Gender                        O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)        OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
L Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
l Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performaunce
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS Ofu OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OfU   OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS Os O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O u   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
-24-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Memorandum of the President and Technical Annex
2.    Legal Agreement
3.    Aide-Memoires
4.    Forms 590 and Project Supervision Reports
5.    Letters to the Government
6.    Back-to-Office Reports
7.    Mid-term Review
8.    Project Evaluation, Ministry of Environment
9.    ICR Consultant Reports
-25-



,, ':i.             A;, TL: Ai,~' T. /lC  i: - -  '' O CIBRD 28001
,--   ,,.,>)  Q   0        !?  A- MoIoS?N                                            -'  1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>'' '                        = 3.,.ES  -
* FORESt  AND  PARKS  PR OTECTION  TA  PROJECT  I :RG      I  CTCO,C  MA ~eIode      OaannAA
''   n- I_ I.,';; ),,                       X           *,)t  C.d  '' \.  /1E     F Z%\ Miin6
Li -I- -..l:....I...i.i..,.z..,..in. - :. -.C- uJ .F.11~
*  in'J- I  <>                                               Deo,,ie, J  N
Ml-'" St
06
-   C'in   It.  din80EAI              ,G           
* I.   .                                                                    I u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FkDREST AND PARKS PROTECTItDN TA PROJEC T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sooei~
U,                                    6,Pe acoinov
..D t-









o MAC,u U.--n
Repoa Nc.:         24710
Type:     ICR



