Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2920-HA
                        Development Credit Agreement
         (Forest and Parks Protection Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated December 17, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2920-HA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
Page  2
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)   "Advisory Committee" means any of the committees referred
to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement;
     (b)   "Annual Work Program and Budget" means any of the programs
referred to in Section 3.08 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
     (c)   "Buffer Zones" means the territory of the Borrower's
municipalities (Communes) contiguous to the Project Areas (as here-
inafter defined);
     (d)   "CRDA" means the Borrower's Center for Research and
Agricultural Development (Centre de Recherche et de Documentation
Agricole) within MARNDR (as hereinafter defined);
     (e)   "DFPC" means the Borrower's Directorate of Training and
Continuing Education (Direction de Formation et Perfectionnement des
Cadres) within MARNDR (as hereinafter defined);
     (f)   "Implementation Plan" means the plan for the implementation
of the Project set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the
Association of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1);
     (g)   "Inter-ministerial Arrangement" means the arrangements
referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
     (h)   "La Visite National Park" means the Borrower's national
park (Parc National La Visite) established pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree dated April 4, 1983;
     (i)   "Macaya National Park" means the Borrower's national park
(Parc National Macaya) established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
dated April 4, 1983;
     (j)   "Management Services Contract" means any of the contracts
referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement;
     (k)   "Management Services Contractor" means any contract manage-
ment entity with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Association;
     (l)   "MARNDR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development (Ministre de l'Agriculture,
des Ressources Naturelles et du Developpement Rural);
     (m)   "MDE" means the Borrower's Ministry of the Environment
(Ministre de l'Environment);
     (n)   "MDE Organic Law" means the Borrower's law that will
provide for the organization and responsibilities of MDE;
     (o)   "Operational Manual" means the PCU (as hereinafter defined)
manual, satisfactory to the Association, specifying the PCU's
managerial, financial, administrative, engineering, agricultural,
social and environmental policies and procedures for the execution
of the Project and the eligibility criteria for Management Services
Contractors;
     (p)   "PCU" means the Project coordinating unit referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
Page  3
     (q)   "Performance Indicators" means the indicators set forth in
the letter from the Borrower to the Association of even date herewith,
to measure and monitor the progress of the Project and the achievement
of its objectives (Supplemental Letter No. 2);
     (r)   "Pine Forest National Reserve" means the Borrower's
national forest (Fort des Pins) established pursuant to the Borrower's
Law dated February 3, 1926;
     (s)   "Project Areas" means the La Visite National Park, the
Macaya National Park and the Pine Forest National Reserve;
     (t)   "Project Coordinator" means the Project coordinator
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
     (u)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter
from the Association dated December 19, 1995, countersigned by the
Borrower on February 2, 1996;
     (v)   "SPNS" means the Borrower's National Parks Service (Service
des Parcs Nationaux et des Sites Naturels), within MARNDR, or any
successor agency or entity of the Borrower, acceptable to the
Association;
     (w)   "SRF" means the Borrower's Forest Resources Service
(Service des Ressources Forestires), within MARNDR, or any successor
agency or entity of the Borrower, acceptable to the Association;
     (x)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (y)   "Subproject" means any of the activities included in Parts
A.3, B and C of the Project and to be implemented under a Management
Services Contract.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million  Special Drawing Rights (SDR15,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account: (a) in the Bank of the
Republic of Haiti on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; or (b) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January
15, 2007 and ending July 15, 2036.  Each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
Page  5
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end shall carry out the Project through MDE, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial,
financial, administrative, engineering, agricultural, social and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the applicable Annual Work Program and Budget, the
Implementation Plan and the Operational Manual, so as to meet the
Performance Indicators.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, a plan for the future carrying out of the
activities initiated under the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain, at
all times until completion of the Project, a Project coordinating
unit, within MDE, with the following functions and responsibilities:
          (i)  conducting the overall planning and monitoring of the
               Project;
         (ii)  reviewing and approving the proposals for Subprojects
               prepared and submitted by a Management Services
               Contractor;
        (iii)  preparing the reports referred to in Section 3.05 (b)
               of this Agreement;
         (iv)  overseeing the carrying out of Subprojects;
          (v)  undertaking the procurement of goods, works and
               consultants' services required for the Project (other
               than goods, works and consultants' services required
               for Subprojects), with the assistance of the procure-
               ment agent referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this
               Agreement; and
         (vi)  administering the withdrawals of the proceeds of the
               Credit and related records, accounts and audits,
all pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, the applicable Annual
Work Program and Budget, the Implementation Plan and the Operational
Manual.
     (b)  The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times
during the execution of the Project, headed by a Project coordinator
assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications,
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
Page  6
     (c)  The Borrower, through the PCU, shall retain, at all times
until completion of Part A.3, B and C of the Project, Management
Services Contractors under contracts containing terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including the following obligations
of such Management Services Contractors:
          (i)  to undertake the identification and appraisal of the
               Subprojects to be submitted for PCU's review and
               approval, in conformity with appropriate managerial,
               financial, administrative, engineering, agricultural,
               social and environmental standards;
         (ii)  to procure the goods, works and consultants' services
               required for the implementation of the Subprojects
               approved by PCU and included in the applicable Annual
               Work Program and Budget; and
        (iii)  not later than thirty days after the end of each
               calendar semester during the execution of the Project,
               to furnish to the PCU progress reports with respect to
               the implementation of Subprojects during such semester,
all in accordance with the applicable Annual Work Program and Budget
and the Operational Manual.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its
obligations under any Management Services Contract in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, suspend, amend,
abrogate, repeal or waive any Management Services Contract or any
provision thereof.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower, through the PCU, shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof; and
     (b)  without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, not later than February 28
and August 31, of each year, during the execution of the Project,
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report on
the progress achieved in the execution of the Project, with regard
to the preceding semesters ending December 31 and June 30,
respectively, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
may reasonably request.
     Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through the PCU, shall:
          (i)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
               Association, not later than January 31 of each year
               during the execution of the Project, a summary report
               integrating the results of the monitoring and
               evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section
               3.05 of this Agreement, on the progress achieved in
               the carrying out of the Project during the period
               preceding the date of said report and setting out
               the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
               carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
               the objectives thereof during the subsequent period;
               and
         (ii)  review with the Association, not later than February
               28 of each year until completion of the Project, or
               such later date as the Association shall request, the
               corresponding reports referred to in subparagraph (i)
               of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures
               required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Page  7
               Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
               based on the conclusions and recommendations of said
               reports and the Association's views on the matter.
     (b)  The review scheduled for not later than February 28, 1999,
will include:
          (i)  an assessment of the sustainability of Parts B and C
               of the Project;
         (ii)  an evaluation of the Borrower's regulatory framework
               with respect to long-term protection of forest reserves
               and national parks, the enforcement thereof and the
               establishment of the required financing mechanisms;
        (iii)  an assessment of the performance of the procurement
               agent referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agree-
               ment; and
         (iv)  an evaluation of the Borrower's capacity to carry out
               procurement tasks.
     Section 3.07. With regard to Parts A.3, B and C of the Project,
the PCU, in coordination with CRDA, DFPC, SPNS and SRF, may from time
to time:
     (a)  propose to the Association, for its review and approval, the
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit of other activities that
have a high positive impact on the Borrower's forest reserves and
national parks environmental management; and
     (b)  upon the Association's approval of the respective proposals,
the PCU may undertake, in conjunction with a Management Services
Contractor, the identification and appraisal of the corresponding
Subprojects, to be submitted for the Association's approval as provided
in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement.
     Section 3.08. (a) Not later than thirty days before the beginning
of each calendar year during the execution of the Project, the
Borrower, through PCU shall:
          (i)  prepare and furnish to the Association a proposed annual
               work program and budget, including prospective Sub-
               projects, for the implementation of Parts A.3, B and C
               of the Project during such year;
         (ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
               review said proposed Annual Work Program and Budget
               and exchange views with the Borrower; and
        (iii)  thereafter, carry out (and cause the corresponding
               Management Services Contractors to carry out) said
               Annual Work Program and Budget, as approved by the
               Association.
     (b)  Not later than three months after the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall ensure that the PCU will:
          (i)  prepare and furnish to the Association an Annual Work
               Program and Budget for the remaining of the current
               year and the subsequent year; and
         (ii)  enter into the Management Services Contracts required
               for the execution of such Annual Work Program and
               Budget.
     Section 3.09. With regard to the services of the consultants to
be hired under the Project, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Implementation Plan, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to
the Association copy of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
Page  8
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment
on such findings and recommendations; and
     (c)  review and implement, as the case may be, the recommendations
of such consultants, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
     Section 3.10. With regard to the training programs to be carried
out under the Project, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Implementation Plan, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  furnish to the Association, for its approval, the contents,
schedule and trainee selection criteria of the respective programs;
     (b)  carry out such training programs in accordance with the
contents, schedule and trainee selection criteria approved by the
Association; and
     (c)  furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
results of each such training program and the benefits to be derived
therefrom.
     Section 3.11. Not later than June 30, 1997 the Borrower shall
establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project,
committees to advise in the management of each Project Area, with
membership and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 3.12. In the event that the Borrower decides to undertake
any resettlement action with respect to population living in the
Project Areas or in the Buffer Areas, at any time during Project
implementation, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prior to undertaking any such action, furnish to the
Association for the Association's review and approval, a resettlement
plan prepared under terms of reference satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, which shall include, inter alia, a compensation plan; and
     (b)  upon the Association's approval, carry out such resettlement
action in accordance with the resettlement plan referred to in para-
graph (a) above.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments and agencies of the Borrower carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those of the Special
               Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than four months after the end
               of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
Page  9
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the MDE Organic
Law or the Inter-ministerial Arrangements or the Operational Manual or
any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
opinion of the Association, the ability of the Borrower to carry out
the Project or to perform any of its obligations under any Management
Services Contract.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date, Termination
     Section 6.01  The following conditions are established as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the PCU shall have been established, and the Project
Coordinator shall have been appointed;
     (b)  that the Borrower, through MDE, shall have adopted the
Operational Manual;
     (c)  that a procurement agent, acceptable to the Association,
shall have been hired by the PCU under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association; and
     (d)  that MARNDR and MDE have entered into an inter-ministerial
arrangement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, for the purposes of ensuring the coordination among CRDA, DFPC,
SPNS, SRF and PCU with respect to the technical supervision by said
departments of MARNDR of the implementation of the Project and the
compliance with the Management Services Contracts.
     Section 6.02. The date March 17, 1997 is hereby specified for
Page  10
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          Palais des Ministres
          Port-au-Prince
          Haiti
                                   Telex:
                                   20347
                                   FINANCE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.     82987 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Washington, District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF HAITI
               By /s/ Jean Casimir
                                                 Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                                SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Page  11
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                           Credit             % of
                          Allocated       Expenditures
                       (Expressed in         to be
     Category          SDR Equivalent)     Financed
(1)  Goods               1,120,000        100% of foreign
                                          expenditures; 100%
                                          of local expenditures
                                          (ex-factory cost); and
                                          80% of other items
                                          procured locally
(2)  Works                 350,000        100%
(3)  Consultants'        6,000,000        100%
     Services and
     Training
(4)  Incremental         1,260,000        80%
     Recurrent
     Costs
(5)  Management Services
     Contracts           2,650,000        100%
(6)  Refunding of        1,400,000        Amounts due
     Project                              pursuant to
     Preparation                          Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                              of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated        2,220,000
                        _________
     TOTAL             15,000,000
                       ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental Recurrent
Costs" means expenditures for the operation of PCU, CRDA, DFPC, SPNS
and SRF, including: (i) office supplies; (ii) operation and maintenance
of equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (iii) domestic
and international travels and per diems of management and personnel;
and (iv) salaries of incremental staff.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 1,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through
(5) of the table set forth in said paragraph 1, on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after May 15, 1996; and
     (b)  payments made under Categories (1) through (5) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for Subprojects unless the
Borrower, through MDE, has: (i) entered into the respective Management
Services Contract; and (ii) the respective Subproject has been included
in the applicable Annual Work Program and Budget approved by the
Association.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower,
for expenditures for:
     (a)  goods or works under contracts not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000;
     (b)  services of consulting firms costing less than the equivalent
Page  12
of $50,000;
     (c)  services of individual consultants costing less than the
equivalent of $30,000; and
     (d)  all Incremental Recurrent Costs.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to start the initial phase of
intervention for the protection of critical remnants of the Borrower's
forest ecosystems and to slow the pace of degradation of the Borrower's
forest resources, through the establishment of the required insti-
tutional and policy foundations.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Support to MDE and MARNDR
     Provision of technical assistance to MDE and MARNDR for the
strengthening of the Borrower's capacity to develop, monitor and
enforce a forest reserves and national parks protection system,
through:
1.   establishment of:
     (a)  the Project administrative systems and manuals; and
     (b)  the Project monitoring and reporting system;
2.   development of the policy and administrative framework required
to enable MDE's to carry out regulatory functions in matters of
natural resources protection, through the carrying out of studies
aimed at designing procedures and mechanisms to implement the
Borrower's subsector strategies;
3.   provision of training to MDE and MARNDR staff, including:
     (a)  design and implementation of training programs for
agroforestry and park management technicians;
     (b)  provision of scholarships for overseas graduate studies
and short courses on forest and park protection;
     (c)  design and implementation of continuing education courses
for field agents and agroforestry technicians, and training courses
for newly-recruited forest and park agents;
     (d)  carrying out of a training program for forest and park
rangers, including law enforcement orientation sessions and further
in-service training;
     (e)  promotion of farmer-to-farmer exchanges within the Project
Areas and with similar areas in the territory of the Borrower and
other countries in the Caribbean region; and
     (f)  assessment of additional training needs of MDE and MARNDR
staff and development of the required training curriculum; and
4.   carrying out of studies on critical forest ecosystems for the
identification of additional forest reserves in the territory of
the Borrower.
Part B:   Management of Forest Reserves and National Parks
     Protection and management of the Project Areas through the
carrying out of Subprojects with regard to:
Page  13
1.   Pine Forest National Reserve Management
     Preparation and implementation of a sustainable management system
for the Pine Forest Natural Reserve, including:
     (a)  updating the inventory of baseline information, through
social and bio-physical surveys;
     (b)  reviewing the legal and administrative procedures for the
expansion of such Reserve;
     (c)  designing and implementing the Reserve management plan,
including a strategy for required monitoring and evaluation, tree
thinning operations and Christmas tree production;
     (d)  preserving vital ecological zones through the carrying out
of field studies of flora and fauna and the monitoring of any bio-
physical change within the Reserve;
     (e)  designing and implementing a plan to identify and delimit
the boundaries of the Reserve and the farm plots within its agri-
cultural zones;
     (f)  carrying out studies on land holdings and use within the
Reserve and its Buffer Zone; and
     (g)  provision of technical assistance for the establishment and
coordination of the Advisory Committee of the Reserve.
2.   Strengthening of SRF
     (a)  Preparation of proposal for the review of the Borrower's
legal and regulatory framework governing natural resources, aimed at:
          (i)  ensuring the compatibility of such framework with the
               overall environmental policy strategy of the Borrower;
         (ii)  designing and implementing alternative mechanisms to
               assure long-term financing of forest reserves
               protection in the territory of the Borrower, including
               a program for supervising the collection and manage-
               ment of the Borrower's forest reserves revenues; and
        (iii)  revising the Borrower's tax policy on wood fuel;
     (b)  design and implementation of institutional strengthening
programs aimed at improving the enforcement of the Borrower's natural
resource management legal and regulatory framework; and
     (c)  preparation of a strategic plan for SRF.
3.   National Parks Management
     Protection and sustainable management of the La Visite and Macaya
National Parks, including:
     (a)  review of the legal and administrative procedures for their
expansion; and
     (b)  design and implementation of a plan to identify and delimit
their boundaries.
4.   Strengthening of SPNS
     (a)  Review of the Borrower's legal and regulatory framework
governing national parks establishment, protection and management,
aimed at preparing proposals for improved protection of native
flora, fauna and threatened habitats;
     (b)  design and implementation of an action plan to ensure the
enforcement of the Borrower's legal and regulatory framework on
national parks;
Page  14
     (c)  preparation of the Borrower's national parks management
plan, including a strategy for required monitoring and evaluating,
and the carrying out of field studies to update baseline socio-
economic and biophysical information;
     (d)  establishment of research zones and permanent observation
plots in the Project Areas, as a part of a system for monitoring
biodiversity;
     (e)  preparation of a strategic plan for SPNS, including design
of the Borrower's strategy for biodiversity protection and protection
of natural ecosystems within the Borrower's national parks and
establishment of a database concerning national parks, endemic
biodiversity and natural ecosystems;
     (f)  carrying out of studies on land holdings and use within
the La Visite and Macaya National Parks and their Buffer Zones;
     (g)  design and implementation of alternative mechanisms to
assure long-term financing of national park protection in the
territory of the Borrower, including a program for supervising the
collection and management of the Borrower's national parks revenues;
and
     (h)  provision of technical assistance for the establishment
and coordination of the Advisory Committees for the La Visite and
Macaya National Parks.
Part C:   Buffer Zone Development
     Carrying out of Subprojects for the provision of technical
assistance to CRDA, aimed at reducing the pressures on the Project
Areas through the diversification of sources of local household incomes,
the increase of on-farm productivity and off-farm employment options,
the rehabilitation of natural resources and enhancement of the manage-
ment capacity of local organizations in the Buffer Zones, including:
1.   Technology Generation and Transfer
     (a)  Provision of agroforestry, soil conservation and agricultural
extension services to farmers living in the Project Areas and the
Buffer Zones;
     (b)  provision of technical assistance to farming communities in
the Buffer Zones for the design and implementation of small productive
activities through a participatory planning process; and
     (c)  establishment of databases and systems to collect, manage and
distribute information regarding high-altitude agriculture and agro-
forestry in the Buffer Zones.
2.   Buffer Zone Small Investment Facility
     Establishment of a facility:
     (a)  to provide capital and technical assistance on a matching
grant basis for the purposes of enhancing the agricultural production
and economic development of farming communities in the Buffer Zones;
and
     (b)  to strengthen producer organizations and local governments
in such Buffer Zones, and encourage priority community investments
for sustainable natural resources management.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  15
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of this Part:
     (a)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
          contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
     (b)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with
the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 but more than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$900,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Association agrees can only
be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract,
and not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, shall be
procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to successfully complete the contract.
3.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $1,260,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $840,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured under
Page  16
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guide-
lines.
5.   Direct Contracting
     Works to be carried out in remote areas estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or less per contract and costing $2,000,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be
procured from community organizations in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, on the basis of reference unit
prices and standardized quantities.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods or works awarded under
Parts B and C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract docu-
ments have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to
the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
'the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Asso-
ciation review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection pro-
cedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each;
or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants esti-
mated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$30,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                               Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  17
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$3,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
Page  18
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
