Document of
The World Bank                  FILE    AfOPY' A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2646-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP!{
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
RAILWAY TRANSPORT ORGANIZATION - TITOGRAD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - RAILWAYS
November 12, 1979
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                                      Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                             Din.18.70
Din.l                                            US$0.0535
Din.1,000                                        US$53.48
Din.1,000,000                                    US$53.476
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973; as of
June 29, 1979 the rate was Din.19.076 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December.31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                 = Basic Organization of Associated Labor
coI                 = Community of Interest
CYR                 = Community of Yugoslav Railways
IBT                 = Investment Bank of Titograd - Associated Bank
ICB                 = International Competitive Bidding
LDR                 = Less Developed Region
MCS                  = Mercalli Intensity Scale
RTE                  = Railway Transport Enterprise
RTO                  = Railway Transport Organization
SFRY                 - SocialIst-Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SR                  = Socialist Republic
USAID                = United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
RAILWAYS
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Railway Transport Organization (RTO) Titograd.
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY).
Amount:              US$14.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including a 3-years grace
period, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
Project
Description:      The proposed project provides assistance to RTO
Titograd in restoring about 90 km of railway lines
damaged in the earthquakes of April 15 and May 24,
1979 and in extending yard facilities in Titograd
and Bar.
Economic Benefits:  Benefits comprise the restoration of traffic over the
railway lines to an effective level. Their closure
or restriction to limited usage would affect adversely
all sectors of the economy and the rehabilitation of
the whole damaged area.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           In view of the urgency to provide resources to Yugoslavia
no separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared to
accompany this Report.
Estimated Cost:                          US$ Million                  Bank
Local     Foreign      Total     Participation
Rehabilitation works
expected to be
completed by 12.31.79    6.0         2.8         8.8          2.4
Yards Bar, Titograd         3.7        2.0         5.7           1.5
Other rehabilitation
works
Belgrade-Bar             15.5        5.9        21.4          5.7
Niksic-Titograd           1.5        0.6         2.1           0.6
Geological research         0.8        0.2         1.0           0.2
Contingencies              10.1        3.2        13.3           3.6
Total                 37.6       14.7        52.3         14.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                      US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD Loan                                -        14.0         14.0
Republics'/Provinces' Contributions  37.6          0.7         38.3
Total                            37.6        14.7         52.3
Estimated Disbursements:                             US$ Million
FY80    FY81   FY82    FY83
Annual                                  5.0     4.0    3.5      1.5
Cumulative                              5.0     9.0   12.5    14.0



!NT_I.ATLONAL BAiik FOR REC )NoiTRdCiCljih Ai  DEVELOPMLEY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIC-: OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECT3RS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
RAILWAY TRANSPORT ORGANIZATION (RTO) TITOGRAD WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan equivalent to US$14 million to Railway Transport Organization (RTO)
Titograd, with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,
to finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of a project for the rehabil-
itation of railways in the S.R. Montenegro which were damaged in the earth-
quakes of April and May 1979. The loan would bear interest at the rate of 7.95
percent per annum and would have a term of 15 years, including a grace period
of 3 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and Novem-
ber 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social
development. It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector is comprised predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by the
principle of workers self-management bringing with it its own set of unique
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
gradually evolved over the years with important new changes introduced in the
Constitution of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision
making power of workers. The federative structure of the state has been
strengthened. Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has
been shifted from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers, through their workers' collectives, over
the socially owned means of production has been potentially increased by a
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Highways (Report No. P-2622-YU) of August 31,
1979.



-2-
restructuring of all economic organizations.  All economic organizations e.g.
enterprises, now consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Asso-
ciated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a
marketable output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell
provides workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product
of their work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to strengthening decision-making power of workers at the
micro level, recent changes have extended workers' self-management to the
macroeconomic sphere. New instruments of macro-economic policy have been
introduced which are formulated on the basis of participation of all economic
agents. These new measures are expected to strengthen macro-economic manage-
ment. The impact of these changes is apparent in incomes, prices and employ-
ment policy and in the foreign exchange and commercial policy. The most
significant development, however, is the introduction of a new system of
planning.
5.        The new system of planning--self-management planning--is based as
in central planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of the
economy. Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the form
of medium term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus
reflecting a strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp
contrast to central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of
all economic units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process
involves a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of
economic units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, eco-
nomic units enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and
demand. In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state
can impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural trans-
formation. GDP between 1954-75 grew at an 'average annual rate of about 7
percent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high through-
out the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since population
grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than tripled
during the period to an estimated $1,960 at 1977 market prices. 1/ The social
sector, in particular industry, was the driving force of the economy. The
share of industry in GDP has increased to 47 percent while agriculture has
declined to 16 percent, paving the way for development of a modern industry/
service oriented urban society.  The past two decades have also been asso-
ciated with a growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy.
Between 1954-76 exports and imports of goods and non-factor services have
grown by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per annum in real terms, respec-
tively; much of this in the convertible currency areas.
1/   According to the 1978 World Bank Atlas.



- 3 -
7.        Although Yugoslavia's overall performance has been impressive,
Yugoslavia has been characterized by large regional income disparities. Four
of the regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with
two-thirds of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-
third, are officially designated as less developed regions (LDRs). The differ-
ence between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. Parallel to these inter-regional disparities there are
large intraregional per capita dlisparities ranging 10 to I between communes.
These differences are a product of diverse factors notably differing shares of
the low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic conditions
e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until recently
regional income disparities tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary
credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3 percent of
the GDP of the LDRs in 1974, have been transferred to the LDRs through the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the expanding modern
sector. Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by
around 4 percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment: abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in
1973 Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973,
with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing considerable
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7 percent in 1971 to nearly 13 percent in 1976. 1/
This problem has taken an added urgency as the incidence of unemployment has
been highly regionalized. In 1975 unemployment rates ranged from 23.5 percent
in Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has been charac-
terized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior. Periods of rapid economic
growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments diffi-
culties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity. This
has been followed by periods of relatively modest growth and improvements in
the balance of payments situation. In 1974, rapid domestic economic growth,
recession in Western Europe and higher oil prices resulted in a sharp deterio-
ration of the balance of payments situation and a $1.2 billion current account
deficit. In the same year domestic inflation (retail prices) fueled by
external price rises, accelerated to 26 percent. Both 1975 and 1976 were
1/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered unemployment to social sector
labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment to total resident
labor force would have been about 7.5 percent in 1976.



- 4 -
marked by policies aimed at stabilizing the economy through moderating the
rate of growth, improving the balance of payments situation and reducing
inflation. GDP grew by 3.6 percent per annum in 1975 and 3.9 percent in 1976,
well below the historical trend rate. Weak domestic demand reduced import
requirements and placed pressure on enterprises to export. This, and the
recovery of activity in the OECD, led to a 15 percent real increase in
merchandise exports in 1976. Merchandise imports during the same period fell
by 7 percent. As a result, the current account deficit was transformed to a
surplus of $165 million. Inflation also dropped perceptibly to 9 percent.
This was partly due to slack domestic demand but also due to stringent price
controls.
10.       A strong upturn in economic activity driven by a revival in invest-
ment activity began in mid-1976 and has continued since. There was a rapid
increase in money supply in 1976. Enterprises began to adjust to the new
financial and accounting system introduced early in 1976 which, through
increasing financial accountability of enterprises, had been an important
factor in dampening the level of economic activity in early 1976. GDP is
estimated to have grown by 8.1 percent and the industrial sector by 9.6 per-
cent in 1977. This upturn led to a revival of inflationary pressure and a
sharp deterioration in the balance of payments situation. Inflation increased
to 13 percent, exports declined in real terms by 4 percent and imports rose
by 15 percent. The current account recorded a deficit of $1.6 billion. There
was some slackening in the level of economic activity in 1978. GDP is esti-
mated to have increased by 6.6 percent despite a drop in agricultural produc-
tion of 5 percent due to adverse weather conditions. The current account
deficit is estimated to have fallen to around $1.0 billion. The rate of
inflation is estimated to be 13 per,zent. Policies for 1979 aim at maintaining
a 6 percent growth in GDP, a 5 percient growth of exports, a 2 percent growth
in imports and a current account deficit of around $1.2 billion. Preliminary
trends in 1979 indicate that although the economy has continued to grow
rapidly, growth has been associated with a rapidly deteriorating balance-of-
payments situation. This has been a consequence of a sharp revival in demand
for imports following a year in which import volume declined and has been
exacerbated by the rise in the prices of oil and less favorable prospects for
tourism following the devastating earthquake of April 15 in the coastal areas
of Montenegro. Oil price increases are likely to add a further $0.5 billion
to the import bill in 1979. This, and the anticipated more rapid growth of
imports than exports, is likely to lead to a sharp deterioration in the
current account deficit to over $2 billion in 1979. Furthermore, the rate
of inflation has risen sharply. Producer prices rose by 17 percent on an
annual basis during the first eight months of 1979. As a result a price
freeze was introduced in August 1979. This, and the anticipated slow growth
of the economy should lead to a reversal of the rising inflationary trend.
11.       Despite the uneven growth rate of GDP since 1974, employment has
expanded steadily and rapidly. An important factor in this has been the
social pressure on enterprises to create additional work places. Employment
grew by 4.5 percent per annum between 1974 and 1978. Labor productivity has,
as a result, grown little during this period. Since real personal incomes
have continued to rise, unit labor costs have risen.



-5-
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The external events of 1973 and 1974 had an important impact on
Yugoslavia's medium-term outlook, particularly in two areas. The first was
the balance of payments. The sharp increase in the price of oil led to a
sudden increase in the country's import bill. More importantly, the decline
in the number of Yugoslav workers abroad inhibited the growth of workers'
remittances, which account for about one fifth of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange
earnings. The prospects for growth of merchandise exports also deteriorated
because of the slower growth in Western Europe. The balance of payments
consequently became a more binding constraint on economic growth.  The second
area was employment. External migration was a key factor in allowing the
low-productivity, private agricultural labor force to decline rapidly between
1965-73. Return of Yugoslav workers placed considerable pressure on the labor
market and in particular the social sector, which is the main source of new
jobs.
13.       The policy response to these issues was the 1976-80 Five Year
Plan which foresaw important structural changes to deal with the new external
circumstances. On the question of the balance of payments, Yugoslavia,
by and large, opted for the import substitution route. To ensure greater
self-sufficiency the Plan called for a major restructuring of the economy
with emphasis on raw materials and intermediate goods, and particularly the
power sector. Included in the priority sectors were basic chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, parts of non-ferrous metallurgy, agriculture, food processing and
inter-republic transportation. These were areas where production had lagged
and where import dependency had increased most after 1965, despite consider-
able possibilities for local production. Rapid expansion of employment
opportunities remained one of the key objectives of the plan. To compensate
for the generally more capital-intensive investments involved in developing
raw materials and intermediate goods, a number of measures were introduced to
ensure a sufficiently rapid growth of employment opportunities. Emphasis was
placed on development of labor-intensive activities and small scale industry.
An employment policy was adopted to facilitate an orderly growth of work
opportunities in existing enterprises.  New incentives were also provided
to the private sector to encourage investment in productive activities. These
measures were expected to lead to a 3-4 percent growth in modern sector work
places. Such a growth would be sufficient to absorb returning migrants and
some outflow of workers from the agricultural sector albeit at a slower pace
than in the past decade.
14.       To achieve these objectives the plan foresaw a growth in GDP of
7.0 percent. Exports were projected to rise by 8.5 percent in constant
dollars. However, imports were projected to rise by only 4.5 percent reflect-
ing the significant degree of import substitution anticipated. Such a sharp
fall in import growth, however, appeared somewhat excessive and not likely to
be attainable during the plan period. Consequently, if Yugoslavia adhered to
the ceiling it set in the plan on the level of indebtedness and debt service
ratio, a somewhat more modest overall economic growth rate of 5-6 percent was
likely to be achieved.



- 6 -
15.       Developments in the first three years of the plan period have been
mixed. The economy has grown rapidly as planned (average annual growth of
of GDP of 6.2 percent) and moderni sector employment opportunities have also
increased significantly, Hlowever, merchandise export growth at 2.6 percent
per annum has been very disappointing. The current account deficit has been
kept in check by limiting merchandise import growth to 1.8 percent per annum
since 1976. Despite this, external indebtedness has increased significantly
and will be further exacerbated with the anticipated deterioration in the
balance-of-payments situation in 1979. Thus, although the economy is likely
to achieve a 5-6 percent overall economic growth rate for the period 1976-80,
the balance-of-payments situation is worse than anticipated. Consequently to
deal with the deteriorating balance-of-payments situation Yugoslavia will need
to accept a more moderate medium-term growth target and instigate policies
designed to improve the country's export performance. Based on the recent
trends in external borrowing and our balance-of-payments projections, Yugo-
slavia is expected, even with slower growth, to experience gradually rising
debt service ratios in the early 1980s. The Yugoslavs, aware of the balance-
of-payments situation, are presently introducing stabilization measures to
curb the rate of economic growth. They are also in the process of reassessing
the economy's medium-term growth targets.
16.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities is also a priority
objective of the plan. The previous financial transfer mechanism continues
as the principal instrument for regional development. However, in addition
to this, provisions have been made for direct joint venture investment by
enterprises in the developed, into the less developed regions. This measure
is expected to facilitate a transfer of managerial and technological know-how
in addition to the financial transfers of the past few years. The regional
problem, however, is expected to remain as one of the least tractable issues
facing the Yugoslav economy and one that will only be resolved in the longer
run.
Creditworthiness
17.       In the period 1974-77 gross capital inflows averaged just over $2.0
billion per annum increasing the total level of medium- and long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed to $8.9 billion by the end of 1977. About 75 per-
cent of Yugoslavia's debt contracted during this period was contracted from
commercial sources in convertible currencies. The bulk of this has been
suppliers credits though financial credits in the Euro-currency market have
become increasingly important in financing the economy's residual external
capital needs. The World Bank is the principal source of non-commercial
long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to need substantial
credits in the commercial markets to achieve its medium-term economic objec-
tives. The debt service ratio averaged 17 between 1974-78. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to over 20 in the early 1980s in spite of lower
anticipated growth rates of GDP. Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record,
pragmatism and demonstrable control over the balance of payments, Yugoslavia
remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.       The Bank has made 57 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,337
million. Of this amount, approximately 44 percent ($1,025.4 million) has
been for 20 loans for the transportation sector--il for highways, 5 for rail-
ways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port
project.  Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including,
in addition to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunica-
tions loan, two water supply and sewerage, a drainage and five multipurpose
loans (two of which include substantial irrigation components).  Seven
loans totalling $394 million (about 17 percent of the total amount lent to
Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture (including two for irrigation
and one for drainage) and agro-industries. Fourteen loans amounting to $300
million (about 13 percent of the total) have also been made for industry and
two for tourism amounting to $30 million. The $27 million first Bank loan
for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In addition, IFC has
made investments in twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling about $172 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v)  to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs, but the
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Highways (Report No. P-2622-YU) of August 31, 1979.



-8-
basic thrust of the Ban%'s activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been
towards the development of the LQRs and the agricultural sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending.  The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. Moreover, lending to regions other than
the LDRs frequently has had as its basis the alleviation of disparities be-
tween the urban and rural areas. W4hile the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent 2xperience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending, as
noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
Tenth Highway Project (approved March 27, 1979), the Bosanska-Krajina Agricul-
ture and Agro-Industries Project (approved October 5, 1978), the Macedonia
Strezevo Irrigation Project (approved August 8, 1978) and the Third and Fourth
Industrial Credit Projects (approved July 11, 1978), as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for water supply
and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural development,
emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Previously
approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway Project (Fiscal
Year 1978) and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project (also Fiscal Year 1978),
as well as the Second Power Transmission Project approved in Fiscal Year 1977,
will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and
energy sectors. A recently approved (September 4, 1979) Croatia Sava Drainage
Project will increase incomes of the disadvantaged rural population in a
relatively well developed region and reduce the disparities in incomes between
the rural and urban population. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide
technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.



- 9 -
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for agricultural credits, irriga-
tion and rural development will support agriculture development in general and
in particular, the individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector.  The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all Republics/Provinces.



- 10 -
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth riomentum and ability to address
the critical issues of unemployment ar- regional disparities. While the
Yugoslavs are making concerted effcrts to open up and enlarge access to
Western financial markets and institutions (iLncluding the European Investment
Bank), there iS no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows.  The
Bank, therefore, remains a major scurce of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not
.y constitutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally
'uportant, is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amournted to 8.5 percent of Yugoslavia's
total debt, outstanding and disbursed in 1979. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is expected to remain a fairly, stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total debt
outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total
debt service was 5.3 percent and is projected to be about 6 percent by 1980.
PART III - THE 1979 EARTHQUAKE 1/
Background
29.       On April 15, 1979 at 7:19 a.m. local time a devastating earthquake
measuring IX on the modified Mercalli Intensity Scale (MCS) with an epicenter
on the Adriatic coastline of Montenegro near Kotor, hit Yugoslavia. Five
more earthquakes of over VII MCS, as well as hundreds of lesser after-shocks,
struck the same area thereafter, with the last quake, an VIII MCS, on May 24,
1979. During this period earth tremors of strong intensity were felt in most
of the area of Montenegro, the southeastern parts of S.R. Croatia, the S.R.
Bosnia-Herzegovina, as well as the northern part of Albania (see Map IBRD
14637).
Earthquake Damage, General
30.       The physical consequences of the earthquake were most evident along
the total length of the Montenegrin coastline in a belt 10 to 12 km wide. In
1/   Part III of this report is substantially unchanged from Part III of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Highways (Report No. P-2622-YU of August 31,
1979). Some updating has been provided in those paragraphs related to
the railways and ports sector to take account of more recent information.



- 11 -
this area over one hundred peop:Le lost their lives and about 500 people were
injured as a result of the earth tremors. The casualties could well have been
much higher except for the fact that the major shock was preceded by one of
lesser intensity which served as a warning, that April 15 was not a business
day (it was a Sunday) and that the major tourist season was not yet underway.
31.       The earthquake seriouisly damaged the basic infrastructure of the
area. The basic transport system, schools, hospitals, houses, hotels, indus-
trial plants, apartment buildings, cultural-historical monuments, the water
supply system, and the electric and telegraph-telephone grid were all exten-
sively and heavily damaged. The full extent of this damage has not, even now,
been ascertained. However over 12,500 of the approximately 60,000 housing
units in the area were destroyed, and a further 12,000 heavily damaged. Over
4,000 industrial buildings, schools, hospitals, hotels, etc., were completely
destroyed and about 3,000 more severely damaged. The total area of these
7,000 structures amounts to about 1.25 million square meters. About one-
quarter of Montenegro's primary and secondary road system, which totals some
3,500 km of roads, was heavily damaged, including almost the entire length of
the Adriatic Highway situated in Montenegro and almost all the other main
roads (about 600 km total) in the area. The Republic's main rail line, its
main port and the area's airport were also heavily damaged. The ancient
cities of Kotor, Budva and Herceg-Novi, which are important cultural and
tourist attractions were all heavily damaged and much of this historical area
may be beyond repair.
32.       The earthquake dealt a devastating blow to the tourist industry,
coming just before the season was to start in an area which contained more
than 90 percent of the Republic's 125,000 tourist beds. The damage to the
road network and the railway from Titograd to Bar as well as to the airport
at Tivat resulted in a situation immediately after April 15 in which the only
possible communication between the Montenegrin coast and the rest of the coun-
try was by radio, the railway's communication system, and helicopters.
Although land communication was partially restored within a few days, and
largely maintained even after subsequent earth shocks, economic activity has
been severely curtailed. More than 5,000 people who would ordinarily be
employed in the tourist industry are now unemployed.
33.       Overall the economic consequences of the earthquakes are critical
to Montenegro which is one of the least developed regions in Yugoslavia. This
lag in development has been due in large measure to the topography which not
only makes communication to and within the region difficult and costly to
build and maintain but which also dictated the historical development of the
main terrestrial transport links to the north and east of the region. How-
ever, during the last two decades the Government has made major efforts to
improve transportation to and within Montenegro through the construction of
four major transport projects, including the Adriatic Highway along the coast,
a major highway linking the Adriatic Highway and the Port of Bar with Titograd,
the capital of S.R. Montenegro, and eastern Yugoslavia, the Belgrade-Bar rail-
way and a modern port at Bar. All but the highway from Titograd to the coast,
which was built with the financial assistance of USAID were components of Bank



- 12 -
financed projects. All were heavily damaged in the April 15 and subsequent
earthquakes. Specific damage to the terrestrial transport modes and the Port
of Bar are briefly detailed below.
Earthquake Damage, Highways
34.       Although the road maintenance services and civil engineering
contractors of Montenegro, aided by the Yugoslav army, were able to get
limited traffic movement along most highway links within a few days after the
first earthquake, the further earthquakes between April 15 and May 24, 1979
brought additional damage to infrastructure generally and the road network
specifically, again closing major sections of coastal and inland routes for
various time periods. However, traffic-blocking debris has now been cleared
on the main roads and some temporary detours have been constructed around
those areas too badly damaged to handle any roadway traffic, with the result
that most roads have been opened to at least limited traffic (passage by truck
trailers is still widely restricted).
35.       Many damaged road sections are extremely vulnerable to further
damage where the earthquakes have disrupted drainage systems and/or did other
structural damage leaving the sections open to water intrusion. Although
Montenegro (and the rest of Yugoslavia) had an extremely dry summer, it was
imperative that certain remedial work be undertaken before the rainy season
started in the fall.
36.       Of all the roads damaged by the earthquakes the most important is
the Adriatic Highway, which is the imain national and international route and
which services the major tourist area in Montenegro. Also heavily damaged
were the major east-west road from Titograd, the Republic's capital, to the
Port of Bar on the coast and from Cetinje, the cultural center and ancient
capital of Montenegro, to Budva, a tourist center on the coast. In addition
many of the regional as well as local and access roads, particularly around
Kotar and Ulcinj, were heavily damaged.
Earthquake Damage, Railroad
37.       The April 15 earthquake severely damaged about 40 km of the Lutovo-
Titograd-Bar section of the Belgrade-Bar line and about 10 km of the Titograd-
Niksic branch line. The five major earth tremors that followed did further
damage so that some 33 km of the maLn line was corrugated, with irregularities
up to 65 cm. About 6 km of track had to be renewed completely because of
damage caused by falling rocks on the line. These rocks made renewal of 3 km
and repairs of 20 km of the overhead contact line system necessary. The
signalling system in this area was also damaged.  The tunnels of Sozina, Ratac
and Susanj on the Titograd-Bar sectLon and the Ostiog and Bare Sumanovica
tunnels near Niksic also suffered considerable damage. In 6 km of the Sozina
tunnel the basic geometry has been distorted and water seepage stopped tempo-
rarily the use of electrical traction. At the 200 m long Skadar Lake bridge a
lateral movement downward of one side of 12 cm has been noted, and at the 80 m
long Moraca River bridge a similar movement of both sides of 2 and 9 cm and a



- 13 -
transversal movement of 4 to 6 cm has occurred. The total extent of the
damage to the bridges is still under investigation, and underwater inspection
of the foundation is being carried out to verify the extent of the damage.
Emergency repairs enabled train traffic to be restored after 13 days but with
speed restrictions on bridges (10 km/h) and in areas with unstable slopes (20
km/h). These restrictions are now raised to 20 and 30 km/h awaiting final
investigations and repair of damage. Building of galleries, anchoring of
rocks, installing steel nets with signalling devices and repair of drainage
systems are major works still to be done to protect the line in unstable
areas. A number of railroad stations have suffered damage, in particular
those at Zeta, Virpazan and Sutomore; the last one is so badly damaged that it
has to be rebuilt. The locomotive depot at Bar was destroyed; other railway
buildings are heavily damaged but can be repaired. RTO Titograd has apartment
buildings for its workers in Titograd, Sutomore and Bar. The buildings in
Sutomore with 36 apartments are badly damaged but can be repaired. Three
buildings in Bar with 70 apartments have to be demolished and rebuilt. One
locomotive and 13 freight wagons are so heavily damaged that repair is not
economical.
Earthquake Damage, Port of Bar
38.       As a consequence of the earthquake, all structures - breakwaters,
quay walls, transit sheds, storage areas and administrative buildings in the
Port of Bar were damaged in varying degrees from minor cracks to total destruc-
tion. Both breakwaters and all quay walls sustained extensive damage partic-
ularly to underwater sections. The quay walls of the older Pier II area have
been so extensively damaged and buckled as to be inoperable and only safe for
reduced and restricted operations. The newer, Bank-financed, quays of the
Pier I area sustained considerable damage but can be rehabilitated without
major demolition and rebuilding. The non-mineral oil tanks, under construc-
tion, received only minor damage. A heave of the access channel in the port
left some 450,000 m3 of spoil above the previous bed level thereby reducing
the operational depth of the port by 0.5 meters. Mechanical equipment such as
portal quay cranes, and the Bank-financed container and bulk-handling equip-
ment all "jumped the tracks" wiLth consequent excessive stress and deformation
of structural members. One 8 ton crane was completely destroyed. All port
services - water, electricity, drainage, telephones, etc. were put out of
operation. The Volujica Hill, next to the bulk-cargo berths, produced several
rock-slides which covered roads, railway sidings and part of the adjacent
storage area.
Economic Implications of Earthquake Damage
39.       The direct economic implications of the earthquakes are obvious.
A great deal of expensive infrastructure has been damaged and destroyed and
will have to be repaired or replaced in one form or another. In addition,
essential economic activity has been interrupted and slowed. To the extent
that a return to normal activity depends on the restoration of the damaged
and destroyed infrastructure, there are further, time-related, economic costs
(losses). A case in point, which also serves to illustrate the interdependence
of the necessary remedial works, is the international tourist industry which



- 14 -
is basic to Montenegro's economy. 1978 was a record year for tourism in
Yugoslavia and since, prior to the earthquakes, advance bookings for 1979
were about 15 percent ahead of equivalent 1978 advance bookings, Yugoslavia
generally and Montenegro, in particular, were expecting a substantially
improved tourist season and contribution to foreign exchange earnings. The
earthquakes damaged a considerable amount of the direct tourist superstructure
in Montenegro (hotels, restaurants, historical buildings, etc.). Although
a good deal of this superstructure suffered only repairable damage, the
operation of these hotels, restaurants, etc., depends on the rehabilitation
of the damaged water supply systems ard electric grid system. But even when
remedial work on these items of infrastructure is made, the tourists will
still have to get to the hotels, restaurants, etc., and this will depend on
remedial work on the damaged transport system. Further, the repairs to the
water systems, electric grid, etc., will, themselves, depend in large measure
on an adequately functioning transport system. As a result the tourism
industry is virtually at a standstill and can only be expected to recover
gradually as repairs are made in all the related sectors.
40.       Obviously, then, there is a basic interrelationship among the
various classes of infrastructure and the minimization of time-related
economic loss depends on prompt remedial action in many sectors. However,
equally obvious, the restoration of the basic land transport network is the
sine qua non of economic recovery. In this context another example both of
interdependence and the critical need to restore the land transport network
involves the Port of Bar. This port, severely damaged by the earthquake, not
only is the major seaport for all of southern Yugoslavia, but is also a major
entrepot for Belgrade and the industrial and agricultural area surrounding
the capital. Prompt restoration of effective port operations is not only
critical to the economy of Montenegro but to that of southern Yugoslavia as a
whole. Yet the restoration of the port in large part depends on reestablish-
ment of the rail and highway links to the port from Titograd and thence to the
rest of the country, both in terms of mobilizing the necessary materials and
labor for repairs and in the movement of goods into and out of the port. The
RTO Titograd had a record traffic figure for the first quarter of 1979. There
was in the past some lack of yard capacity in Titograd and Bar. Extension of
these capacities was hampered by the need to demolish existing housing. This
problem is now solved. Extension of yard capacity with loading and unloading
tracks are now badly needed to handle the extra traffic to rehabilitate the
whole damaged area.
Request for Special Bank Lending
41.       The Government of Yugoslavia has requested the Bank to provide
financial assistance for the rehabilitation of the earthquake damage in S.R.
Montenegro, one of the four LDRs in Yugoslavia. Assessment of the cost of
physical damage is well advanced but still proceeding. Present indications
are that the final estimate may well be as high as $3.5 billion. In addition
the economy of the Republic will suffer a severe loss of earning capacity,
both currently and for several years to come, as a result of the damage to
the tourist facilities and the industries in the region of Bar.



- 15 -
42.       A law providing funds for reconstruction was published in the Offi-
cial Gazette of SFRY on July 27, 1979. This legislation specifies interim
contributions to be deposited by each of the Republics and Autonomous Prov-
inces into a Reconstruction Fund (Fund) to be established by S.R. Montenegro.
These interim contributions amounting to Din 5 billion (US$267.4 million)
will be paid into the Fund in equal installments at the end of August, October
and December 1979. The law also provides that the total contributions to be
eventually made will be determined, on the basis of final damage estimates,
and enacted into law by December 15, 1979. Provision is also made for equal
contributions to be provided monthly in 1980 and that these, and any further
contributions which may subsequently be provided, will be increased by an
amount equal to the increase in the consumer price index for the preceding
year. S.R. Montenegro has passed legislation establishing the Fund on
July 31, 1979 and has thereafter earmarked funds for specific sectors of
rehabilitation. A large proportion of the interim contributions are being
earmarked for housing and rehabilitation of the transport sector. Additional
contributions received and being sought from other domestic and interna-
tional sources will also be channelled through the Fund. Both SFRY and S.R.
Montenegro are convinced that financial assistance provided by the Bank would
serve as a catalyst for obtaining other external assistance. Discussions with
a number of countries and Agencies who have expressed interest are underway.
43.       In addition to its direct financial contribution, SFRY has under-
taken to service the domestic and foreign debt of enterprises struck by the
earthquake and will provide supplementary financing for social services.
44.       In view of the Bank's past substantial financial assistance to and
depth of knowledge of the transport sector in Montenegro, it is proposed that
loans totalling $85 million should be made for specific projects for the
rehabilitation of highways, the Titograd-Bar railroad and the Port of Bar.
These proposals will cover specifically identified works in an effort to
ensure that the loans can be used effectively and quickly.
45.       Several Bank transportation missions have visited the area and have
reviewed the damage and the Republic's rehabilitation plans. Detailed assess-
ment of damage and the reconstruction plans have already been made for the
highways, the railways and the Port of Bar. Because the damage at the Port of
Bar is severe, the design and layout of the original facilities were reviewed
with a view to ensuring that the reconstruction will provide the optimal means
of handling present and future traffic.
46.       Highway rehabilitation being urgent both to permit restoration
of normal economic activity and to prevent further damage which would have
occurred during the rainy season if essential repairs were not completed
promptly, a loan of US$21 million for highways' rehabilitation was approved by
the Board on September 18, 1979 and signed on September 21, 1979. This
represented the first part of the total rehabilitation loans of US$85 million
for the transport sector. Specific projects suitable for Bank financing in
railways and the Port of Bar are now recommended for US$14 million and US$50
million respectively.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       As described earlier, the main earthquake shocks of April 15 and May
24 caused major damage to the railway section, Lutovo-Titograd-Bar and to part
of the Titograd-Niksic branch :Line. The main line was closed for 13 days
because of fallen rocks; earthshocks destroyed track and sections of the over-
head electrification wires, caused movement of two main bridges and damaged
tunnels. Over a large part of the line uneven settlement of track sections
had to be leveled and lined before train traffic was possible.  Damage is not
covered by insurance due to "force majeure."
Immediate Action Program
48.       RTO Titograd's maintenance BOALs 1/ for track, signaling and tele-
communications started imnediately to clear the line and repair the electrical
facilities. The track -renewal BOAL from Novi Sad, present in Titograd during
the earthquake for capital overhaul work as part of the Fifth Railway Project
(Loan No. 1534-YU), was of great help. These efforts and technical assistance
from RTO Belgrade and RTO Zagreb in the repair of two damaged bridges and from
the "Yaroslav Cerni" Institute of Belgrade in examining the Mala Ryeka bridge,
made it possible to operate thE! line with restricted speeds within 13 days.
49.       Along with these activities, commissions of experts from all RTOs and
from the Railway Design Institute of Belgrade (the designer of the Belgrade-
Bar and Titograd-Niksic lines) carried out systematic inspection to locate
and define the types of damage sustained and the repair work needed. As a
result, the different types of rehabilitation work to be carried out on both
lines have been well identified. Federal commissions inspected the railways'
business and apartment buildings to decide which should be immediately evacu-
ated, and classified the buildings into four categories: to be demolished,
heavy repairs, light repairs arnd no damage. Commissions met frequently with
RTO Titograd's management to ensure consistent standards, to draw up an over-
all picture of the earthquake damage and to plan and design efforts to restore
safe train traffic as soon as possible. The experience of the Railway Design
Institute of Belgrade was of great value in these matters.
Organization for the Rehabilitation Program
50.       RTO Titograd is providing overall planning and coordination of the
rehabilitation effort. Its limited resources are being complemented by the
Railway Design Institute of Belgrade and by specialized institutes for geo-
logical research and inspection of foundation and steel structure of bridges.
The design for additional yard capacity with loading and unloading tracks and
facilities is under preparation by the Railway Design Institute of Belgrade.
The rehabilitation program is divided into three groups:
1/ Basic Organizations of Associated Labor.



- 17 -
(1) Urgent works to restore train traffic. Operations were
started with diesel traction and 10 and 20 km/h speed
limits, but electric traction has now been restored with
speed limits only in unstable areas and on a few bridges.
This class of works is now completed.
(2) Building of 4.7 km sidings in Titograd and 7.8 km sidings
in Bar with loading and unloading facilities to handle
expected extra traffic necessary for rehabilitating the
damaged area.
(3) Works which are less urgent or which need longer investigatory
and preparatory times to eliminate speed limits, to achieve
long-term solutions for temporarily repaired bridges and
tunnels, and to secure unstable slopes. Final repair and
rebuilding of all affected buildings are also part of this group.
Preparation of all works in groups (2) and (3) is well underway and, in some
cases, implementation has already started. By the end of 1982, all works
should be completed but the major part is expected to be completed by the end
of 1981. The plans and cost estimates for the yards have been reviewed by the
Bank; plans for all investments of over US$1.0 million should be approved by
the Bank before contracts are signed (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4B 1).
The Project
51.       The proposed project was appraised by the mission which visited
Yugoslavia in August 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington with a
Yugoslav delegation led by Mr. Veselin Djuranovic, President of Republican
Committee for Transport, S.R. Montenegro, from October 24-29, 1979. The
project scope, dimensions and cost estimates are based on the report prepared
by the Railways Design Institute of Belgrade and approved by RTO Titograd, as
reviewed and modified by the Bank. The proposed project will consist of all
the remedial works referred to in para. 50 (including geological and soil
mechanics research), necessary to preserve or restore the damaged railroad
facilities (groups (1) and (3), para. 50), and of expansion of the yards in
Titograd and Bar to handle extra freight traffic necessary for the work of
rehabilitating the area (group (2), para. 50). The additional yard facilities
will later be used to handle the normal forecast growth of freight traffic.
The objective is to improve the operation of the existing rail system, elimi-
nate hazard of accidents by preventing further physical deterioration and to
restore the lines to service ongoing economic activity and rehabilitation of
the whole damaged area. The total length of the affected lines is 145 km of
which 90 km is part of the Belgrade-Bar line and the other 55 km is part of
the branch line, Titograd-NiksiLc. On the main line the areas with most damage
are 40 km between Lutovo and TiLtograd and 30 km between Zeta and Bar. The
affected section on the branch line is about 10 km in length. The estimated
cost of the project including contingencies is Din 978.0 millior (US$52.3
million) excluding duties and taxes. Estimated foreign cost component is
US$14.7 million or about 28 percent of total costs. Annex IV, pages 1 and 2,
gives details of the Project. Map IBRD 14638 shows the lines affected. The
estimates include provisions for price escalation on the basis of 12 percent



- 18 -
annually for local costs and 7 percent for foreign costs and a physical
contingency of 15 percent. The foreign exchange component of the works
included in the project is based on the likelihood that all but one of
the major contracts will be executed by local contractors (para. 53).
The Loan and Project Execution
52.       The loan would be made to RTO Titograd in the amount of US$14
million and guaranteed by the SFRY. A condition of loan effectiveness would
be that the Republic of Montenegro will have adopted decisions or given
assurances satisfactory to the Bank providing the financing of the rehabilita-
tion program, including a guarantee to cover possible cost overruns (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(a)). Supervision of the reconstruction works would be
effected by the Borrower, assisted by qualified organizations acceptable to
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). As a condition of effectiveness
of the loan, RTO Titograd will enter into an agreement with the Investment
Bank of Titograd (IBT) to act as fiscal agent for the Bank loan and the Fund
proceeds and with the Coa=runity of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) to provide assis-
tance in procurement and reporting, respectively (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(b)).
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       There are likely to be over 40 contracts with only about 10 con-
tracts over US$1 million. Many of the works (totalling some US$25 million)
are limited in scope and widely scattered. Because of their urgency, some
repair works are already being undertaken and contracts for other works such
as yards, galleries and buildings, are being concluded. Most of the works
will be constructed or repaired under traffic, which limits the number of
suitable civil contractors. Cont:ractors qualified to work under these condi-
tions will be invited to bid. Experience with bids for the construction of
this line and with subsequent projects has shown that there was no significant
foreign interest in civil engineering contracts of the magnitude envisaged for
this loan. A highly specialized French firm, however, was contracted for
installation of protecting nets with signaling devices to assure safety of the
Belgrade-Bar line in areas with tnstable slopes; this firm will be invited to
negotiate a new contract for similar equipment for this project under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Apartments and other buildings which
are to be replaced or repaired are scattered over a wide area and are unlikely
to attract bids from foreign contractors; therefore, contracts will be placed
in accordance with local procurement procedures. The type of equipment
necessary to replace destroyed electrical installations and rolling stock is
standardized and not suitable for ICB and will be purchased after negotiations
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 1/ Quantities of
rails and other track materials required are relatively small, so that it is
reasonable to allow the railways to acquire steel materials by extension of
contracts recently concluded (after ICB) for similar items under the Fifth
1/   Total value of electrical equipment and rolling stock is estimated at
less than US$2.5 million equivalent.



- 19 -
Railway Project rather than go for ICB again. Sleepers and ballast could
similarly be procured by extension of existing contracts. 1/ Contracts of up
to US$1 million in value, approved by CYR as agreed under Loan 1534-YU, will be
placed with prior Bank approval (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4A para. 3).
54.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed on the basis of 27
percent of total expenditures, representing slightly less than the estimated
foreign exchange component of the project. It is expected that the proposed
loan would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.
Retroactive Financing
55.       In order that the Bank may assist as fully as possible in the
rehabilitation of Montenegro's earthquake damage, expenditures as determined
in agreement with the Bank incurred for the emergency works and for two yards
to handle extra traffic related to the earthquake (see para. 51) from April 15,
1979 up to the time of loan signature, would be eligible for financing
under the loan. The amount to be disbursed in this way is not expected to
exceed US$3 million (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3).
Project Risk and Environment
56.       Because the major part of the project is designed to restore to
their former situation RTO Titograd's railway lines, there will be little
hazard to the environment. Expropriation problems in Bar have formerly
prevented the badly needed yard expansion. These problems are now resolved
as part of the reconstruction planning process. RTO Titograd will be assisted
in planning and carrying out the works by CYR and the Design Institute of
Belgrade. Both entities have satisfactorily participated in earlier Bank
railway projects and the experience indicates that the works will be completed
in a cost-efficient and timely manner. A potential risk, the magnitude of
which cannot be foreseen, is that further land slides, rock falls or other
damage may occur before the project is completed. To a reasonable extent the
project's contingency element would cater for additional works. To reduce the
potential for damage resulting from possible future earthquakes, the Montenegro
authorities are now reviewing their code of practice for structural design to
take account of a higher seismic loading factor; replacement structures in
this project are being designed in accordance with the revised loadings. The
projected galleries, steel nets and improved embankments will also reduce
potential damage to the railway from future earthquakes.
Economic Assessment
57.       The proposed project would support the restoration of the railway
line and facilities on the southern part of the Belgrade-Bar line and on the
Titograd-Niksic branch line, both damaged by the April/May 1979 earthquakes.
1/   Total value is estimated at less than US$3.0 million equivalent.



- 20 -
Trhe construction of the Bank-financed Belgrade-Bar line has been an important
factor in opening up the less-developed region and integrating it more closely
with major Yugoslav and international market centers, thus stimulating national
and international trade and enhancing employment and economic development.
The Belgrade-Bar line carries many passengers to the growing international
tourist resorts along the coast. The line is also a major national and inter-
national link to the Port of Bar. Tne Titograd-Niksic branch line serves a
large industrial and mining complex.
58.       The railway investments would contribute to the economic benefits
of Montenegro's overall earthquake rehabilitation program; these benefits
would consist of increased production and income in the region from their
present depressed levels.  It is not feasible to isolate the benefits due to
railway works alone.  However, unless railway facilities are restored (at a
cost of about US$30 million, exclusive of contingencies), the Belgrade-Bar
line could not operate effectively. That line was built with Bank assistance
(Loan 531-YU) at a total cost of about US$700 million (1979 prices). In
addition to repairing earthquake damage, the proposed railway investments
include yard extensions estimated to cost US$7.4 million (exclusive of con-
tingencies). The need for these extensions has been seen for some years
(para. 40); they have now become essential for handling the increased traffic
necessary for Montenegro's reconstruction. These yard extensions will be
needed in future for the normal traffic of the line, notably for the Port
of Bar. RTO Titograd carried 77 million ton km during the first quarter of
1979, a substantial increase over the same quarter of 1978. The railway has a
key role in Montenegro's overall development, and should quickly be restored
to safe and normal traffic standiards and adequate capacity.
Borrower's Finances
59.       RTO Titograd, formerly part of RTE Belgrade, is a new and small RTO
whose revenues in 1978, its first full year as a separate entity, fell well
short of its operating costs. In 1978, its deficit was made good by the
Government of the Republic but it is planned, under the terms of a social
agreement 1/ that necessary financial support will in future be given by a
Community of Interest (COI) comprising the RTO and its users. Action plans
which form part of the Fifth Rai]Lway Loan Agreement are designed to improve
the operation and organization oi- the RTO and to reduce its dependence on COI
contributions. These problems will continue to be addressed as part of the
Bank's supervision of Loan 1534-YU.  The Bank loan would finance the foreign
cost component of the project (US$14 million) while the local costs of Din 634
million (US$34 million) would be provided from the Reconstruction Fund (para.
42). As stated in para. 43, the SFRY has undertaken to service both the
domestic and foreign debt of enterprises affected by the earthquake to the
extent that this may be necessary.
1/   The Social Agreement on Economic and Other Measures to Provide Normal
Economic Conditions for the Railways.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Railways Trans-
port Organization (RTO) - Titograd of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro;
and the draft Guarantee Agreemenit between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to Executive Directors selparately.
61.       Provisions in the agreements of special interest are noted in para-
graphs 50 through 55 of this Report and the most important provisions are
listed in Section III of Annex III.  Special conditions of loan effectiveness
are described in paragraph 52 of this Report and set forth in Section 7.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement. These conditions specify that:
(i)  the Republic of Montenegro has adopted decisions or given
guarantees in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
to cover the financing of the Project including cost over-
runs; and
(ii) the agreements between Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT)
and RTO Titograd under which IBT is to act as fiscal agent
for the project and the agreement between RTO Titograd and
Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) under which CYR is to
provide assistance in procurement and reporting are in full
force and effect.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 12, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                            ANNEX 1
'A3L! ,                                                    PaAe  1  of  6
--_  _=3LAVIkA  - SOC.AL :1tCA73RS OA'A saPt1 f
Wil AMZA (TmUS.L  St).  1___ -._ST _ EC________                                                   _ __
'OTAL- ,          f  s 2s53.8                                              Sts. i                 EX, iCaI
AGCICULTU.AL     143 42                                 R13   ECENT      GOCIA"IcC   *iCO           tNCO?E
1950  /b    170 lb 9STIMA?  /b       RECION i    CGROU  id      EOUP 
a"P PEt CAPItA tCLsI)                 430.J         60.0    2390.0           2906.3      1942.6      3075.3
EnRCY CONS052t0 o      CA5
-TLLoo.s Or COAL. cU;/ALYT)         S72.0      1439.0    Z016.0            2033.2     1646.7       2318.6
tOt2lLA401I A.D Y'-S..L S-AT.SCS
POPUUCS#. NfMSTEA.  0      oss)      18.4         20.4      11.7
01AM  POPULATION (PRCEN(T Of TOTAL) 27.9          34.8      38.4             56.3        51.2        72.1
P7PULAtOM PROJECrtONS
POPULATIONE   TAX 2000 (M=IOKS)                           26.0
STAXO(A  POPU2.ATtOK (it.LLIOS)                           29.0
TUA STATTOIlt POPULAXION TS UACID                       2100
POPUT.AfON  "StI.
PER SQ. KH.                        72.0        80.0       85.0             81.5       28.2         33.5
na sq. mt. ZC0LTU'RAL LAmD    124.0            139.0     132.0            138.8       100.5        91.3
POPMATON AC: STR0I79TR <(PtCIT)
0-14 uS.                           30.5         27.4      25.0             25.6        35.4        33.3
15-84 YU.                           63.2        64.8       66.0             62.9       56.3         57.5
65 YS. AND A&zv                      6.3          7.8       9.0             10.2         5.1         5.7
POPCLAStOI COWTI uVAT  (nu=)
TOTAL                               1.2          1.0       0.9              0.9         1.7         2.1
KIAN                                3A6         3.2        3.0              2.6        3.0
CXUDCE 111 2AT7  (PER TKOUSAMG)     24.0         19.0      18.0             18.5       27.5         31.4
CUCDE WATIA 1AT  (VEX S1OGS 3)    10.0             9.0       9.0              9.2         9.1         8.2
GROSS UtPROCUctTO  L4T9               14           1.3       1.1              1.2         1.8          1.9
ACCEYTORS. ANNUAL (TIIUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (CPU.IT OrA n  Wq: ...                    59.0        ...
'IOD AD NS `;2CS
INOEX 0 t o000 PNODIJCTTO9
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           UA          92.0      120.0            115.7      102.0         9S.7
PC& CAPITA SLPPLY Of
CALO1E3 (tRCI2ET oF
RzQCTR.Oans)                    115.0       124.0      136.0            134.2      120.8        112.7
POTIN  (GRAMS PER DAY)             91..0        92.0      97.5             95.4        80.9        70.3
Or WtCE ANIAL AND ?9I.8          27.0        29.0       35.4             45.4       31.3
OaLO (ACZS 1-4) i01T.ALITY 1ATE       4.0          3.0       2.0              1.3         5.1         2.5
WEALTH
LIFE E.XPEC-AlSCY AT a19 TEAuS)    62.0           67.7     .69.0             70.0       65.6         68.7
31FANT MOR.ALITY RATE (PER
2U10SAND)                            88.0         55.5      35.0             31.5       45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATEn (PEISr OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       69.4         73.9
N                                     .           ..        ..               ..        85.1        94.6
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO XQCETA DIS?OSAL (PERCENr
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       70.1
D381                                 ..           ..        ..               ..       88.3            .
AL                                   ..           .,        ..               ..       33.2
POPULATTON PER PMIYSIA2N           1400.0/f    1010.0      790.0            661.6      1343.2       981.8
POPULArION PER NVISING PERSON      1350.0/6      410.0     390.0            677.1      765.0        397.8
POPULATION E.1 HOSPITAL .81
TOTAL                             200.0        170.0     170.0            180.1       197.6       240.6
U2                                   . .        70.0      70.0               ..      260.2
URL                                  ..       1610.0    1770.0               ..     1055.0
ADIaSSONS PEtR HOSPITAL   D            ..         17.0      17.0             15.3        17.3        19.2
AVERACE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0          3.3       3.3               ..        4.7
U&IJu4/                             3.3          3.2       3.3               ..        4.4
RIUAL                               4.4         4.3        4.1                          .1
AkVEAGc  'lft.SIS of rPESOS PSER ROOm
TOTAL                               1.6          1.4        ..               ..         1.1
URBA                                1.7          1.3        ..               ..         1.2
MARL                                1.5          1.3        ..               ..         1.2
ACCZSS T0 EEC%tC 7Y (PERCM
Of O3ELLENCS)
-OTAL .5.4                                     87.9         ..               ..       66.0
L7JAN                              92.7         98.         ..               ..        65.1
ILUAL                              36.1        80.1         ..



-23-
ilONtL4- rMtW S OATA S                                             At     2  of  6
UGOEAVA                     SU4    01  cADJUSrio A;1.AG$
scos3ADU      mcoa      &I -u0na
MM   -CA  !$toR    C    Mn) -
MO*b      W        URaT  /S  es w  c    amo 14              a
AnIUS31D VROLLD X  SATIOS
nPuZ r:      "AA *"                                     97.0         . zos.7        tIo.,       MrA
L' 00.0       VIJ       101.0          t17.1       t10.
tLWX          ~~~~9t.0      n.o       %A o            0o.1        U.4.
UCOtmll.Y:   TOTAL                34.0        64.0       55.0            65.9       54.2         39.7
ALZ                  43.0        50.0      59.0             70.3       56.4
MN=                  24.0        4*.0      50.0             62.2       43.7
vocAoIL zi.. (0 o a srm4 )  n.0                  12.0     7n.0             20.4        15.3
PJft7Y                            33.0        24.0      22.0             26.7       27.1
s5a1                              13.0        27.0      30.0               ..       zS.3
.4uL? UL22A2 L     (1n4             77.o        13.0       85.0              ..       86.1    -
1 A         CZ lS PU C  WUU
P3VIUStO-                          3.0        35.0      80.3            105.3       53.4         ".I
lo0AftOW                         U3.o        163.0     210.0            233.7      2W.9         210.3
2Y ICIS 11 TUAMS
-"llt FOf1jrL21.4                              U.0    1t1.0              144.0       t02.6       117.7
OMNAM  ( S*L    CXL
Dasw  anoTtc 
IuOS  IVOA2os                *     69.0        85.0      ".o                ..       76.5
GtV1 AJA4L AmWXhI=  PM CAtsA  7.0                4.0       34               6.4        3.4
LABOR F'OSC
L JOtal. LaIOI !03 CIU0U6al)     65.0        9175.0Li 9779.0LI
IVIAL  (Pfl=)                     35.0        36.5      36.3             32.3       26.5         27.2
Ani1cL2U   (1S3=)                 63.7        49.1      42.0             25.1       28.9         23.8
280SVR  (CP12c12)                 23.5        29.2      34.0             33.1       30.6
?AflC?tASOI  *42  (I?)2
TOTAL                               4S.4        45.0      45.9             37.6       33.S         40.1
.0.3        58.3      S9.4             57.0       51.3        55.7
*           21- 31.0    32.3      32.7             26.0       16.3        24.7
1cWHac SUOOeOc! &M                     CS          0.1        0.7             1.0         14          1.0
MXMI D l" c
aDJ= or WuIM2 UPC
I=V= n 
RMWIP   5   tPCDI  0? WG S   DSQ     6.4/h    i3.s        ..               ..          ..'.
UCS?S 20 Ptl=    0      5D103U  41.53h  -  41.47    4o.oJ1              47.        57- .
WilaS  2    cx!O or VOOU011S  6./7b           6.67?      6.57            5.0        3.4
IlS? 60 1UjI? OF U            s   19.4I/      ia.t         .4            15.4       11.0
WSZTVATI 4310L1T? POYz= fIimt
LEM11 (051 111 CAfl4)
asahi,                     ..          ..        ..               ..         ..'
IS?Th&?D IIZATM      POLs!? tVD
19. (VS) 11  0a212)
03*49                      ..          ..        ..               ..      550.0          .
IAL                                 ..          ..     43.              4364.      403.4
I5L.MATD F0P01A?TOZ  311.W ASSOtO21
105122  I3C0I L1711 (?SW-!NT)
alAs                       ..          ..        ..               ..         ..          ..
0UL...                                         ..                          .          ..           ..
.. I.e av,41.bI.
*. ap pI9cabI, .
La    Tho adjused group au    gs for uch IAicaeor ach  SopeaAeCrwttd g             crIc m"s, *ecludgt   extreme
VaeLu* of tbe Lndttacne and the ost populaced councry Ln *.ch Scoup.  C"araga of coumctries  among zh
Lndicators depends on avaUlability of  -acs *ad  s tot uMa foc%.
A     Unlens  ochar'4s.  oed, data for 1q60 reter to any yar bocvsea 1959 and 1961, for 1970, betuwcn 1969
ad 1971; and tor  tec ISacant jc.       be4cvn 1934 and 1977.
La    lurope;   /d  Upper 14ddle Income (S36-2300 gor capita, 1976);  /.   ighb 1ncome (ovet 92500 par eaLPta.
1976);  LT  1962;  a   14cludIng migrat vakers vorking abcroad;   /b  1963;   /i  1968;  _/  1973.
'oec Recent tatsat. of ar ;.r capita is for 1976.
AugC,. 1975



-24-                                                                                 ANNEX I
S~~tUL ~~~UU*~~                                             Page   3   of   6
=%Oltot  looaarmhl  loouoah ofth  kmaiw  of xtaia&aio44 411atlmu 4 matmeos mg No    i 4Uta.ma tomari  is aueAlioth  htd . Ike mae ae, momlawlae.
's"A.f. to lcm,31e .1.0., of =Vgiftie, 1040i.1.. t.,  ad saasiorie  aw18.3   Wpu anwom,mi  boi-am  eowtU4.
Thv .1 "            ~~f  ooe.a  3843ckg a we posIllae-mlt'4          ostot game. 00014"84tS *smetemiomiae et te imassam    at ath  mat peApalta
cc,Sat7  . Irm.   ".Wto lug M  dof"0. PM*0   0t4 I-eof-AI all  heckg  to  COW"ita  oweR all 01 dasaa adh of t"154.064. tof.A        .  o In  rmm gaff"t"
Zlapo.al, fbmi84 a.m.w M.sUlhottto ma Pua"I"  for  t oihel .omuq             am  paeaommo               MutrU t. im  without .mlmlin cC the beteo 'k                MA
to. beattf   on?  o040s **T  lOtnOO th. q-w  f.0ca   et       et
tMO AORA (Okgm4" aq.M01.)
___*totaL .5M  tntu  s ooqrIOtinEM wma  s        wi  adm  mu,,,                            p.  *tI*trmAmM.nMa ea. c
050  *1k  Mce"t "mI      et. OfWl0Lkk    c   m  t,m                      pamnwm  of theIr o"mpaslvo p.psaollh. limnnt  tAispace              Laslok
.r pormwaslt, ier a,"s, p*0 ah.                                                    Usa   8  ltbe~i  tt  cogtofim, mi diopes"al  t108 or cltokt "mm twoim    of   ew*ct*
III  oUaLl.                                                                        ma motoate, r by  .4tr.k.rm sytme of uhe cm or PtA privies mm G.04km
rIp Pap rAXP*10't.al*W0VW  4apit  h.41inhS as imform                                                             PupLalali  gloida  Op slcy et pgume*ag eugc1tmu
calu"z    47"M  momeass,m  4kg am VWali Sa   Mine (19'5-7  a,818)1                                      L so""  as mlocntylor 18.
1a4, 9)0  #AA IWr de"o.                                                           0M1om a., Suet,. ?M,10  * Pupalci  41.14.4 by wAlr 04 OmNl oeMAle
Y A  W    '.  Mmcl   ~~~~~ of somWem -                                  w& mui.gcdaoom*wraa, pva.tloa" amm,,, 1k  maisoosm own".
ftell.                                                     was~~~~~~~~~baItl .0.m tabMmcs" pa"  mumop.e coa pt fd1  c   88  So  ."im.    .
PCF71AT7S.1 M2 Wr.-AL  ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~      bobUa maproctalas e.la.1,pcAl  cewaoncL ewe. grc  ot clatci; . FoSrcl
~!tl i7-1tim   .4-ele  . on-)    As ct.lowl; Jka, 19)0  ma                   kmpltcLs,  w.a.c, Imads, 0.0t8 ma boaloc  craters tt p.mAmOWt   gagcr.
'17T 34 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~h  8WSAA    lt by a ,,410tl asoutgat, Atroc, ahkge. was. .0. wao   r.
Uftoo-    1a      ,.ocoo  total) * WItt, 7' untom to toa%l, popahatim                Lc.cimumoouf dtoam.ood. . 1111te4 rPOOe of inLaAl. CWaItIc1..
-~~fft             H~aso tr-%s wr of Rot -O,aaneblt, ty of 1              AM1cLoacu  oItl3.    011 .0er of .081,41     to or discharger fr!..
owool a-onit'lts tI.0, W9. ma" 1975 las.                                            pIUT! W'eddba   C                      -4a
TO  =44 ptIAIil1li hr .0g am  ses sad thict nftaully Mt (melilOp               lycr E 1     at Maemied (sroctrlcobl)-toi  ola  h   o
-o,eo. Ppcjctlm  pacargats car atpcality rcM.e otapole at to"cAoc.o4hoel.  o     r. ofLr2.0   0   oc1Y.aOatr  8
La-&*c ".a1am   iLfe oep.00o7 as aimt  Lera"mokai im comMis78                    *01 maLL as". A Warder or LadWar car or    ar w   b   ac im.4so  ta th#
p.r mito ua.,. level, *0 fmu.t life a aPataaer ra.bi11Al as A                   hosiebld.8 ot OtkgOtsdL parpocec.
77.5 pacec. lbe parmutera fwo fortilLtr r"ot  col  laa throw 1,10.            lc agcmber ofsr,ocE,T    MMn - r.tcl  wm..4fr   - A'verao04c
osm ag  eUo  a for"RLity .000.4fth  to 3a.   ULan   kg "ft0                or   08   perr-rm   01fyI 0*010 .4*coti~L.*    twelictc.
follaama  pafooc.occ. fet" comaTisr tIm  saeigwag mu at "W",                 respeatiety.  VmUaexai  cabalu" tipero.aowt ozrtrmtsac  ma ,aac, siro# t.
.loe Mmoetims of  ronality ma f.1rcl.lly tragi. fo, r eolgooa,                 Am0,ffaY41(c=1'f& "io~  -001100sd  a. 
ztta         m     .  - Zo a ctatLocdp poAjatIta *000 La me 31,04                  tot4ar, mom, mad owet d-mlia   resostirc]p.
i121tiitIr1. So .p.a  to tO, dec0l rmu,,m   aLso the "Wc
O;ttwol1  VON"" 00080004. M"A is bos"d 14 tip4=     ftrttLttp roe             __________________
Itla  tom thea rcplasmmu 1.1.  of Mat anc rcpo4ealoa raoe, mXwe                         f
cool pmhetcioe oati woo   placho ftOc  exactly.  nom ooaotima.r  poo.              UNNT19:  _ 9               -.0 2o o1 f - Croaca tocLo. ma.mafnd   o.cX
I :10, 0100 am a  tisted 00 the 1.4. of' as po0.mted ohO*mt.n'tctto                sma  or -   bgase as to  prtocii LeAo. go peromcatis  of reaote'ci.  prtca*
of' the PoPotl*to  La thc 740' 2eW, ma the Case at dedtlam  or fcootlAh            9ckmet-q   opoba.a;ke  awmally 410chid1408 ccad 6.LI Jeer: lt%
rca. 1  roplmmucaw  levcl.                                                         helacic  tor 41"tcRct 10.tht. of prilAay  M8400         r ..0000r  with
*4. ottloar,otolooeois roockal- VW. Yhea abbe      aclr papaRaaRma            mimucaL adamcLo  wMoU.ina oar .-Icc  110 Penot Sint* cm   psottIS
0'. lo LWa,                                                                        weaoo.m  081   or man, the ofRIcioL .0301  Wg.
paoll.ation Pa. sqmore kUua~   1210 haaowc) at                                                 ;Mwia  aarc   tles  IO   nr   of 097.r00d 01*07 L1tor=ot-ao;
I     pacntdaae  emuaL Oactiocal. or toaster trolaisg isat-ooti... ':z0 34.01.
*_d   COWVO.4 be Oh." fto  magr.ctiurl INA               asai  of 12 to 17 icc. Of me-,                            arecoOin   c?. o    ocai
p,,oottcO be LttictSr                maor,t m-134, 0-)A 3cmr). 001138g-.h             caici  eolst  aOO   f,oocy   Toacala    iutotttol.o   oo.L.
rl-ot Ypacrh?,  "u rct 'Sa ~0  I-us0 "W aov) 00 parccutwoh of a*4'taa                a,fe   a.oa.o   te   ra,    3Omcct0,s,i   ?0
PoPoLatioc; 1"O, Ipp, ot 1917 IOta.                                                  kgmmt  ot "gmaaeas  tassitctowl.
peoiora 17p31-100                         ANoAr io'Kh t4or 1,t-T,  0  170?.    MU.              a  cim  r11o444b o"1-lr       oolcr   souf 0040 r,   Ue03  toR0
;oo.toa3*I5QoZ10-1  a  2907.".tttrc,ra   prct - ilUrtarcac  tto  (able to ro" bad crac) .8
ita                      i~aaa tm1t.Wr 0000111 Ot M"4.              a  .tht. pr" oe tltUatppttoaOa  .  hcm    vr
~~~~~~ mA 1977 data.
Cros ~.th Rte  ow tosoo.1 - AamaL doct3  pa. tk-m  atg Uf o s,           Vem
40*0  l      m,I*7. 002.7 Sege.                                                      'MtosA    ptto)-fwaocr .ortoci  watr ort,
to  tMoeI %ct. - Aosr-g. rkg,. of d&AgIt&wo a   m  01.111b                         ""%a  ULMaD          at p00.0.0  zola    mItAaMLmuac  1.8.0. 1 ad  iittmy
ho   o"reT            U    Porlod If sole    Test  rW o.pr.c                      a"*Lo.ibcc                  oeltoI  Altycofr
opreilel fc,tulty TNA'ad; 'Solip fio-pooavr""coa, mat.g is 1940,                                 (0.1AU typesaa  wctocd, fa  *041..
191, ama 97.                                                                    "I        te.-  gacarclt.1110par th.aof S  OR.PWA&lOa  --elodac Salitoccoo
NalyRowIo    kaoor   *.s  thoacdI     MmatMm. or         fe"                 ,m.locec 8 f.ar Inet cadr  W Mtcr   beoa rc.otrxta  of ac. -     aos  t
to all wv woo   la mch mm    p.                  .                                 01Li XmA.  abso mOgItatrioo ae -I  s,g mas 1A otfaltt
soama  CIclto   ortoskOowalo      8c   k.or04   *oato
I.   p ,                                         devft" primartly~~~~.1.801  to rcording gomorg sawm,  Lo to ctcaldred to te  J4iLW'
road ama is cc calem      Ya, or laas. cmdittlaa 0000r pivmlT lods              OlaM.Lltaai   0  01801  m                        am   0te omO   1
(.og. v*ffaa .0  tcc Ow  agal.4c). AgCcgcte poomato  o. amm cacca
to bacag ma 0*1008 00010   prc4mAo          d4*. fcgta.
Pr tatIt, 00001 of ool.-'  - ft0~v0  Ofw'o0?a) - Coetg ft. to                        OR
oceIp qotolst -C 00 f,o4ooRil.  too jtLa10 008*7  m 0110                     tkama)    Wom .oloti  Wit".. phrcem. tscladIag ar,00
p.. A".  locilem. sorploca .oopmto  404.-0  prosectea. )Aprt* A"  km.           f10ieWd7441ahll a.o1oc h m.a.otr, ooo4aco. ett. V.fan"tI.."
"aporta, am  olmam  to 0004.  Oakt .asquet   .ga1.detacf4,oa. W""                    elt.    ar1ca ar  "to  oospearbla.
quetities as"4 to foci prcroia. a,   Iss toaha 4iattllottoa. Rcpalteo.                    at%)   tin, 1. Lab rc fesa  poeoasce"oOf o-tat Labor fensO.
mot. wer 0.05tmt  'o-ro lAOs   00 oo               -.4. far rod   sarst' 050kgizas 0OO                 Lobar rno, is f80.Lag. totccar. lomtw   ma
Sivioty AMa b.ciun Cloot4.rr,   tOvir,'m.ctl t~rupwrter, boft Wmoa*             fhAL4 Ad POIrhCtgAP Of totaLlh080  fares.
4c am  Iss durtStitt   as  f popolati-Sa  NM4 alILooag U prongl o              .(auAo    1)  0.0  Tiow. in alolc. omaivtOot20. anmrtwoetftg  '
etat at kh.0aefte   level.                                                     gmW.M , iprccscr ma4 ...So pcncctare of totaL L".. sr.-..
p-I- ..13  mIly  .f rcto    ,~  sndor) - rvec.so evtetm  of pet        so4pa. tat t"erot    .01   cl. mag Cfi. * ftrtiaAatpIo  or
th6t~kg 5.713  ~p.; ~. 3."POLY V, rfOO  to "81kme ms                  setot'itrates *0   coaac 00,.4 to  sc    mm!" caftd on -ccl  L%r rare as p-r
080.0. tcplocrm.to trw .1  0.owztros ncattab.ea by 012  proviso top a           no""q of tetat, fat" mA feccRe popha0Lagit of %I s0   ?0t4toe
4183EN aloSo.0 of 13 froam Olr total fvcaia  P,r gaW mFA 40 a.mu of             1404. 1910. a" 975 ial. the.. wv  it'  pa rt 30134008 'cay  rcfIaoc%tn
aalcc  ma puLo. proc.30, of *140  10 arm  2Okdd he mIM"  pMco.l.                 agoama atIaCtaft or the 0,pilasLo. ,      Ima  a   tim  troes. A 30 htlah
Via". sotmMm. war is-r tom  theso of ?-I c'm  of m& tgvet p ts, ba                W*are  i. caU",aa  mre"c.
15 arom  of MAIN"  P000  08 08 avorsd* for the amid.. plcpoah   7PM"4 IV114Alol. iof papIatoG    e   1,5 m& O-5 84 ever to
In tOe N184 Voris4 fatl lort.                                                  M                              oAgo   el raic
3o '!~Aroe15  -n            4b,2~.3r.18tOt. 040 grao41t.  m W  IcL.             ft       mat  M,scea  00 pirtat,  oocl pqAccast  -a Rheca.ve   10 rtanom
opl.w o.awatrla. 4tal dorloca ft'M 11!.ab                                          e
TIYbor.owv~t 0000 (ran)   hAnne. amker of y.01  of life                    H,FLMH-=Lt~v,v
r.cc8l0  01 ts-O; ~RO)2. 70,ma 77.40a.                                 AbOlw&te paerori  immIrc 1*w lOst La.0 4O ff lU4a1Balt:4. RooIo
10Cm; AVLt0IOytoYAt. o. t              Aft1.Osmai 40.080 Of tafootS Mm.r OM          etrtocali  madqacl gl't pta. .aenetaL me-tra" taootrcate ica m
A;.tr .... mai  0.00*0300   *00.tt'   t  A  
ar'.  o77   own~oO       sa.t').*01  owaa  eo  ,wk*                         ,3l.0.0.. :oo  '0m  tc(ftoll or eqSttal * ort" wamdrorl
toe,o  p.pr000,.orc.  a rwa'otOrcooale0100  50M8  rccimcptRt   4,,03 vu r1fr4 of aor,a  par -otota
-.C. mt.r c.or1R i 31*0.. t-baL.M  o0ffse. oa.V* .1 0811000.4 WA%                  pe"accL twe"'a of Ok- tabtry.' urcax 000 L& 4oritod frm  tOe r..rit lowo
,ecas"A" 3t4" "ntar aih 00 that frau; prtetotd  ,anhol.d.s, optag,                 with a4oata.ac Mor liabr coot ofr t1384 Is oaim  mea".
ma0.10.7mIS) aW p100000t400 of XbO3  rcope@tlo  popUtioss,h8  ZS           _________________________________
Meet  or Z"f NJo&-.  tO n-r" ~~~~~~~~~~~~ss nea,n ;rt.  kg  m0.".00wcr L4ottOcpoo
toot tb: hoo.kfc of, sminr or Weh N',oa.lo. do ma tame to epeas a                                                       lahinie MA Sorita 0010 100s,.
44.oo u.oaloa   pant of Lb* la   to tthlegf Osa fmabily8 a or ""aOVaam    Amaysto mad Pr'ojeactlme frpetmboo
Ia0 tW



25  -
?age ic of t
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                           ESTrmATE             PROJECTED
1970         1975         1976     : 1977 /1          1978          1979         1985
NATIONAT %CCOUNTS /2
(US$ nil. at 1975
Prices)
Gross Domestic
Product (GDP)  22,519.9    30,931.9    32,138.2         34,612.8       36,897.2      38,557.6      48,787.7
Gains from Terms
cf Trade           148.9          0            69.1           0           332.6           0             0
Gross Domestic
Income          22,668.8    30,931.9    32,207.3        34,612.8      37.229.8       38.557..6     48.557.6
Imports           6,519.8      8,832.0      8,493.2       9,636.8      10,038.5       10,344.8      12.857.0
Exports-Volume -5,022.7    -6,426.0    -7,026.9          -6,712.8      -6.761.7      -6.896.6    -10.952.4-
Exports-Terms
cf Trade
Adjusted        -5,171.6    -6.426.0    -7,095.1        -6,712.8      -7,094.3      -6,896.6    -10,952.4
Resource Gap      1,348.2      2,406.0      1,398.1       2,924.0        2,944.2       3,448.2       1,904.6
Consumption      16,339.6    23,123.5    22,778.2        25,367.6      26,820.2      27,850.8       34,266.7
Investment        7,677.4    10,214.4    10,827.2        12,169.2      13,353.8       14,155.0      16,405.6
National
Savin8g          6,993.2      9,211.4    10,992.2       10,817.0      12,520.3      12,516.5       15,713.7
Gross Domestic
Savings          6,329.2      7,808.4      9,429.1       9,245.2      10,409.6      10,706.8       14,501.0
GDP at Current
US$              13,766.4    30,931.9    42,336.6        50,154.9      58,480.6       68,422.3    123,803.8
SECTOR OUTPUT
(snare of GDP
at 1975 prices)
Agriculture             .182         .152         .160          .156          .139          :134          .130
Industry                .410         .480         .472          .478          .487          .494           .508
Services                .408         .368         .367          .366          .374          .372          .362
PRICES
(1975 -100)
Exports Price
Index               52          100          104            117           128           145           210
Imports Price
Index               50          100          103            117           122           145           210
Terms of Trade
Index              104          100          101            100           104           100           lOO
GDP Deflator         61          100           132           145           158           177           254
Annual Average
Exchange Rate       12.50        17.39         18.19         18.30         18.64          -             -
SELECTED INDICATORS             1976-78      1978-85
Import Elasticity                  .71          .88
Average National
Savings Rate                      .33          .32
marginal National
Savings Rate                      .30          .27
Imports/GDP'                       .27          .26
Investment/GDP /3                  .35          .34
Resource Gap/GCU                   .07   ,      .06
/1 Preliminary.
/2  Components may not add up because of rounding.
/3 Including all statistical discrepancies. In 1976, 1977, and 1978 large statistical discrepancies
exist as a result of which components of final demand exceed total resources. Since, in the
above table consumption has been reduced by this discrepancy and investment has not been changed
although it too is likely to account for part of the discrepancy, the share of investment is lIkMIy
to be an overestimate.
EIIIDC
July 25, 1979



ANNEX I
- 26-                                    Page  5 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ Million)
Actual                                Projected
1974         1975        1976       1977       1978 1/      1979         1985
Exports (f.o.b.)                      3,805        4,072       4,878      5,254       5,671       6,900       15,000
Imports (c.i.f.)                      7,520        7,697       7,367      9,634       9,988      12,500       21,000
Trade Balance                     -3,715        -3,625      -2,489    -4,380       -4,317      -5,600       -6,000
Non-Factor Services Receipts          1,891        2,354       2,430      2,600       2,984       3,100         8,0W
Non-Factor Services Payments            795        1,135       1,381      1,641       2,259       2,500        6,000
Non-Factor SUrvices
Net Balance                       1,096        1,219       1,049        959         725         600        2,0WO
Factor Services Receipts              1,714        1,746       1,974      2,220       3,030       3,200        4,5W
Factor Services Payments                285          343         364        381         455         500        1,8CO
Factor Services Net Balance         1,429        1,403       1,610      1,839       2,575       2,700        2,70
Current Account Balance             -1,190        -1,003         165    -1,582       -1,017      -2,300       -1,300
Capital Account-Medium
and Long-Term (net)                    612        1,156       1,193      1,615       1,300       1,700        2,0X
Disbursements                       1,426        2,171       2,096      2,665       2,700       3,400        7,0CO
Amortization                         -814       -1,015        -903    -1,050       -1,400      -1,700       -5,000
Exports Credit Extended Net            -130          -80        -100       -213        -150        -200         -300
Disbursements                        -215           -           -          -           -           -             -
Amortization                           85           -           -          -           -           -             -
Total Medium and Long-Term
(net)2/                                482        1,076       1,093      1,402       1,150       1,500         1,700
Short Term (net).3/                     270          127         -47        -19         182          -             -
Allocation of SDR's                      -            -           -          -            -           -            -
Change in Reserves(--Increase)          438         -200      -1,211       -199        -315         800          -4W
Gold, Foreign Exchange, SDR           243          -63      -1,065         38        -250          -             -
Bilateral Balances                    195         -137        -146        161         -65          -             -
1/    Preliminary
2/    External borrowing reported in the balance of payments is  not consistent with external debt data.
5I    Including capital transactions, n.e.i and errors and omissions.
EMENA CPIC
November 2, 1979



- 27 -
AYNNI\ I
Page 6 of 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL
1973         197'         1975           i976T        1977
Medium- 6 Lonp-Term Debt (Disbursed only)- us $ million
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD) (end of period)              4287.0       4925.9        5820.0        1145.1       8946.1
Including Undisbursed         (end of period)             5548.7       7709.7        8807.9        9696.4     12157.8
Public Debt Services          (during period)             -306.5      -394.2         -447.0        -305.2      -379.0
Interest                                                -98.4       -105.3         -127.9       -143.0       -157.3
Other Medium- and Long-Term Debt Service(during pd.)   -746.4          -822.7        -989.7       -1134.8     -1233.3
Total Debt Service    .        (during period)           -1052.9    -1216.9         -1436.7       -1440.0     -1612.3
Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                                          23.9         21.4          22.4          19.7         20.2
Debt Service Ratio/i                                        18.4         16.9          17.3          15.7        15.9
Terms
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                              4.9         5.0            4.9           4.2         4.0
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                24.6         24.7          24.7          20.2         18.0
Dependency RatJos for Mediumr- & Long-Term Debt
Gross Disbursements/Imports                                 37.0         20.6          27.3          32.8         30.7
Net Transfers/Imports                                       13.7          4.5           8.7          13.3        14.0
Net Transfers/Cross Disbursements                           36.9         21.8          31.7          40.5        45.6
srlposure
World Bank  Disbursements/Cross  Total  Disbursements        3.0          5.8           7.3           4.9          4.5
World Bank & IDA Disbursements/Crosa Total Disbursements  3.0             5.8           7.3           4.9         4.5
World Bank  DOD/Total DOD                                    8.2          8.6           9.6           9.2         8.5
World Bank & IDA WvD/Total DOD                               8.2          8.6           9.6           9.2         8.5
World Bank  Debt Service/Total  Debt Service                 3.6          3.6           3.9           4.7         5.3
World Bank 6 IDA Debt Service/Total Debt Service             3.6          3.6           3.9           4.7         5.3
/1   Including workers' remittances.
EMlD0
*l.a-y 25, 1979



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF Bh.NK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1979)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-two Loans fully disbursed                                  597.6
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0       9.1
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism              20.0      0.3
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      0.2
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      1.3
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    20.3
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       0.3
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          0.5
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             93.0    17.7
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0    10.0
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      3.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit              50.0    10.8
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                   Roads                40.0      3.4
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline             48.4      3.5
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    11.3
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    32.6
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0    20.4
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0    15.9
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water   54.0    51.6
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      20.5



- 29 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0     21.6
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0     11.5
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic              Transmission         80.0     59.9
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka          Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0     69.4
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                  Railways             100.0     73.9
1535     1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia        Roads                 80.0     49.8
1561     1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine       Hydro Power           73.0     64.1
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      35.8
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      17.4
1613     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      17.2
1614     1978   Investiciona Banka          Fourth Industrial
Titograd                   Credit               20.0     12.7
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0     79.1
1621     1978   Privredna Banka,            Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                  Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      55.0
1678     1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia    Roads                 148.0    148.0
1756 /a  1979   Zagrebacka Banka            Croatia Sava
Drainage            51.0      51.0
1759 /a  1979   Republic of Montenegro    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation -
Highways            21.0      21.0
Total (less cancellation)                    2,337.5   1,019.7
of which has ben repaid                       254.7
Total now outstanding                        2,082.8
Amount sold                      8.5
of which:  Amount paid          7.7             0.8
Total now held by Bank                       2,082.0
Total undisbursed                                      1,019.7
/a   Not yet effective.



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1979)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation       -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry            7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-            Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry         13.7    3.3      17.0
1972   Sava Semperit                          Tires            11.3    3.8      15.1
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira            Pulp and Paper  13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0       -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                             Steel            50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute          Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing        4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6    2.6      18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                            Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
Total Gross Commitments                                147.4   24.8    172.2
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                              81.0    2.6      83.6
Total commitments held by IFC                           66.4   22.2      88.6
Total Undisbursed                                       11.2    5.2      16.4



ANNEX TI
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar 1liultipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
EffecJive Date:  May 31, 1972; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
The start of project work was delayed for one year.  The main dam
is completed and the reservoir is being filled. A small part of the irriga-
tion network has been completed. with the remainder expected to be completed
by 1980 and 1981. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates, but the
overrun financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal
sources. Delays have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjust-
ment. Consult-nts have been engaged to help find solutions, and the Kosovo
Government has enacted appropriate legislation. After a delay of about five
years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist
in the provision of agricultural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated ($49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,000 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
$51.5 million, requiring addit:ional financing of about $1.6 million and
a change in spansorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, O^tober 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks, but another change in sponsorship is required
and is currently being discussed with the participating parties. The 1978
season was good. A further extLension of the Closing Date to December 31, 1979
has been necessary to permit disbursement of the small balance of the loan
(approximately $300,000) earmarked for the final payment against a computer
installation scheduled for mid 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission:  US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972, Effective
Date:  December 29, 1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The Project construction has progressed slowly, but has v rtually
been completed, about two years late. Its cost has increased to about $428
million (up 90 percent) chiefly due to esc .lation in prices. The resulting
cost overrun is being financed from funds received from the Federal Republic
of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources. Appoint-
ment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recom-
mendations have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the
Borrowers and implementation of many of the recommendations is underway.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (MacedoniE): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 42 are completed, one is under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed to October 31, 1979, to permit comple-
tion on disbursements to suppliers of equipment.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Data: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by mid to late 1980.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credii:  US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements accelerated after a slow start. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, was postponed twice to December 31, 1979 to
allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements to
equipment suppliers.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. Tariff increases approved in 1977 and 1978 and institutional develop-
ments, including improved investment planning and management, the formation of
COIs and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
have resolved the major problems. Rate of disbursement, initially behind
schedule, is now improving. Undisbursed balance of $20.8 million is fully
committed. Closing date has been postponed from June 30, 1979 to December 31,
1980 to allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disburse-
ments on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items was expected by end 1979. The port authority has
been experiencing serious cash flow problems arising from delays in complet-
ing the project and in traffic build-up. Most recently, the earthquake in
Yugoslavia resulted in severe damage to port installations particularly in the
older parts of the port causing further delays and will require a reassessment
of the financial situation.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supp]Ly and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has now been
completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage com-
ponent.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
institution building. Ninety-seven percent of the loan has been committed.
Disbursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational
and learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applical:ions, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the year and, a: of June 30, 1979, 75 percent of the loan
proceeds were disbursed.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.() million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roacds of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia and Montenegro is on schedule. All road works should
be completed by the 10an closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date:  Jul         1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a one year slippage in the completion will occur. The
revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there will be a cost
overrun of about 45 percent because of required changes from original project
components and increases in local costs. The Borrower has taken steps to
obtain supplementary financing from various sources both foreign and local.
The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon review of the award
of a site preparation contract in one case, and the procurement procedures
regarding a telemetry supervision control system in another case, the Bank
concluded that the procurement procedures were not in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000 and
$112,000, respectively) that would have otherwise been eligible for disbur-
sement were cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished, has been reviewed by the
Bank and discussed with the relevant Yugoslav authorities. The flood control
and water quality studies are underway after initial delays in selecting con-
sultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has begun. Construction is completed
on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the remainder is well advanced.
Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice. Designs of sewage treatment
plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice are underway. The pilot irrigation components
which were delayed pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrange-
ments, are expected to get underway shortly. The creation of the Morava
Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than antic-
ipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties concerned
on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened in the
water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region Water
Community of Interest.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway. Tendering for the
sewage treatment plant is completed and award is expected shortly.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Gas is scheduled to be available in Sarajevo by end 1979, one year
later than originally planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the
supply of gas were the the major cause of delay. All contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high pressure loop-line, as well
as for gas transmission line, have been awarded and construction is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed except
for a small part of the Kosovan bank's portion for which a project has been
submitted to the Bank. Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal
estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants, with the assistance of foreign consultants, have
been retained as project consultants and are proceeding with final designs on
the project components and preparation of bidding documents. Two local con-
struction contracts have been awarded as well as the major contract for the
construction of the dam. Overall project progress is about one year behind
schedule.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. ICB procurement for the winery
and the cold stores is completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date:  July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all agro-industrial sub-projects have been approved by
the Borrower.  Twenty two sub-projects in the individual se--^r have been



-36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
approved committing 60 percent of loan proceeds. Slower than expected imple-
mentation (contract award for construction agro-industries facilities) due
primarily to lack of employment of agro-industries specialist by Borrower.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has been
completed by the consultant awarded. The studies on Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs are substantially complete. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 84 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution has started with the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The least cost development study and tariff study have been submitted
to the Bank and are being translated.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit:  US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and
indicated that funds will be committed faster than under the first project,
although behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracting has progressed as expected and most of the loan has
already been committed.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded for road sections
in Croatia and Serbia. Slovenia has delayed construction due to protest by
residents in the area of the Celovska Interchange that some measures must be
taken to abate noise pollution. Resident agreement to abatement solutions is
expected shortly.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date:  November 16, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982.
The loan became effect:ive November 16, 1978.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each Loans
of July 26, 1978; Effective Dates:  November 16, 1978; Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans became effective November 16, 1978.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major contracts for construction of the dam, alimentation canal and
main canal have been awarded. Consultants have been awarded contracts for
preparation of three irrigation studies.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan became effective March 28, 1979.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1978; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
All five participatirng Republics/Provinces have completed prequalif-
ication of contractors and have established monitoring and evaluation units.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date:             ,      ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is January 31, 1980.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Highways: US$21
million Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date:
; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is December 20, 1979.



-38 -                           ANNEX III
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EART:QUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - RAILWAYS
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
project:                               From April 15, 1979, final design
by the end of 1979.
(b)  Agency which prepared project:         Railway Transport Organization (RTO)
Titograd with assistance of the
Belgrade Design Institute
(c)  First presentation to Bank:            May 1979
(d) First Bank mission to consider
the project (identification):         May 1979
(e) Second Bank mission to consider
the project (appraisal):               August 1979
(f) Negotiations substantially
completed:                             October 1979
(g)  Loan Effectiveness planned:            February 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank will maintain close cooperation with the Borrower to
ensure that procurement procedures cause no delays in the urgent work of
rehabilitating the railway lines.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) As conditions of the loan, the Borrower would agree to supplement
its capability for project supervision with the services of quali-
fied organizations acceptable to the Bank (para. 52 and draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(b).
(ii) As conditions of loan effectiveness: (a) the Republic of Montenegro
has adopted decisions or given guarantees in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank to cover the financing of the Project
including cost overruns and (b) the agreements between Investiciona
Banka Titograd (IBT) and RTO Titograd under which IBT is to act as
fiscal agent for the Project and the agreement between RTO Titograd
and Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) under which CYR is to
provide assistance in procurement and reporting are in full force
and effect (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).



39 -                       ~~~~~~Annex IV
Page l of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKCE REHABILITATION PROJECT--RAILWAYS
Cost Estimate of Railway Rehabilitation
(Din million)
Group I - Rehabilitation works expected to be completed by December 31, 1979
Local       Foreign       Total
1.  Super and Substructure
including ballast                          29.7           5.3          35.0
2.  Track renewal                                 13.9          9.2           23.1
3.  Levelling/lining of tracks
and points                                  1.7           0.7           2.4
4.  Bridges                                        0.6          0.2            0.8
5.  Electrical equipment
SS/TT/lighting                              5.8          5.9           11.7
6.  Buildings                                     12.3          3.1           15.4
7.  Tunnel repair                                  5.9          3.2            9.1
8.  Traction & rolling stock                      12.2         18.3           30.5
9.  Project preparation on
reconstruction work                         7.2            -            7.2
10. Project preparation and preliminary
works on yards                             23.0           7.0          30.0
Sub-total                                112.3         52.9          165.2
Group II - Increases in yard capacities I'
1.  Titograd yard                                 16.2          8.7           24.9
2.  Bar yard                                      53.7         28.9           82.6
Sub-total                                 69.9         37.6          107.5
Group III - Other Rehabilitation works
Lutovo-Titograd-Bar
1.  Embankments                                   31.3          7.8           39.1
2.  Cuttings (slope stabilization)                83.7         45.0          128.7
3.  Drainage                                      12,1          3,1           15,2
4.  Bridges                                        7,8          3,3           11,1
5.  Tunnels                                       46.2         24.9           71.1
6.  Buildings, business                           52.3         13.1           65.4
apartments                       55.8         14.0           69.8
Sub-total                                289.2        111.2          400.4
Niksic-Titograd
1.  Drainage                                      12.0          3.0           15.0
2.  Landslides                                     9.8          2.5           12.3
3.  Steel nets                                     3.5          5.2            8.7
4.  Tunnels                                        1.5          0.8            2.3
Sub-total                                 26.8         11.5           38.3
Group IV - Geological & soil-mechanics
research                                        15.0          3.8          18.8
Sub-total                                513.2        217.0          730.2
Physical contingencies                            77.0         32.5          109.5
Price contingencies                              112.1         26.2          138.3
Total                                            702.3        275.7          978.0
1/ The total cost of yard works is the sum of Group II and Item 10 of Group I.



Annex IV
- 40 -                          Page 2 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - RAILWAYS
Summary of Proposed Project Cost
Din millions                     US$ millionsA./
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total  Bank Part-
icipation
Rehabilitation works
expected to be completed
by December 31, 1979            112.3    52.9   165.2        6.0      2.8     8.8       2.4
2/
Increases in Yard capacities    69.9    37.6   107.5          3.7      2.0     5.7       1.5
Other Rehab. Works
Belgrade-Bar line               289.2   111.2   400.4       15.5      5.9    21.4       5.7
Titograd-Niksic line             26.8    11.5    38.3        1.5     0.6      2.1       0.6
Geological research               15.0      3.8    18.8       0.8      0.2     1.0
Sub-Total                  513.2   217.0   730.2       27.5    11.5    39.0       10.4
Physical Contingencies            77.0    32.5   109.5        4.1      1.8     5.9       1.6
Price Contingencies              112.1    26.2   138.3        6.0      1.4     7.4       2.0
Grand Total                 702.3   275.7   978.0       37.6    14.7    52.3       14.0
1/  US$1   Dn. 18.7
2/ See footnote 1, page 1 of this Annex.



IBRD 14638
OCTOBER 1979
YUGO0SLAVIA
-**\                           EARTHQUAKE   Montenegro
r-XMetalikq'!EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
BOSNIA-                                                                           SECTIONS DAMAGED BY EARTHQUAKE
HERCEGO V/INA                          !onvi Rogionoi 
'-  'N                          ______    -            ~~~~~~~~~~~Paved roads
?-  "'' '   't   is                   ----    =---  Gravel roads
wOSula  ___            "\ ,,, \          io>)                     =    Railway damaged by earthquake
-~----u-i j Railway
S\icepadnPolje   :              PLJEVLJ                                       -..-    Autonomous province boundary
/      P\ e )R>\Trlica*                                                          -    Republic boundaries
|   : :\\  \.                 _._ -International boundary
b                      . direltinjeQ6   ~~~~s,   ,,/                                  \\         \.
.4'r,atinieN-
Kosanica   I
Prsa                                                   Ko- Kauren . n-
(  PIu~~~ine0      f         Zobl1ak                 DjreviccaTara             N.
\   <   ~ '-----o'15inaVoda a                                                .0"\        SERB/A
-.X. Krstac          .     Bajovo Polije                                                       i        B EL  POLJE
9 t2 \                            C             ~      ~              \ 9          SR jepacMast
.N\>           \               g Savnik                                 Moikovac
Gornie                                                                        IVANGRAD
Kuside
V -IKSIC                     ManastirMae                   i Mateevo   -       - Andrijevica     /
Vilusi     Podbozur
rT T-be  IBogefi6 i
j^s-____ qGrOhovO      I        9%                                1                            -       Merina     ]          i  KOSOVO
Lutovo
Coilovgrod                                            (        Gusinje
ERC                          K tor   e nie                             TITOGRAD             /                 A L-B A N I A
C t J Q~~~~~~CETI JE  j ,  
Radanovici                        Rie  Crno,evi
A  d  r  i   o         c     Petioao                  r i                                                                     }
L 7.A0~-  tWNrGAeY ,
90
80SCOOVNIA1      Bogod                   a~3 
HERCEGOSNAV                                             Krute   II1.T*
ON~~~~~~~V    MONTE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~                                            a        0        344
;t~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~                                                    ores Oea (  m,/sss.m0Nn osmovo           , emmsve..n ..e .
9< SetiNUcinj                                   uOW rr.  Or.6-   tW_
o'AtY.      N-                                                                                                   OeN,*r/nn neoN, .nsen,~   ~                 dD
(9>  <                  teMAF0U'                             X                                            un.or.mbn,n



A



IBRD-146,37
OCTOBER 1979
Y U G O S L A V I A
BOSNIA -  (                    EARTHQUAKE Montenegro
t-XMesaIjkoa3Go \EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
BHCSNIA- V/NASEISMIC IMPACT OF APRIL 15, 1979 EARTHQUAKE
H/FRC,FGOV11NA                        .                     >s \.                                             Locol Regirnol InterrecuRu I
; \  N.                                        ____                   Paved roads
"Sula - ..dnioK1                                              --~~~ Grovel roads
Sub  -  -, \*.        .o                     *-'----.- ~~~~~~~~~Railway
{%ceponPoije  :   PLJEVLJ rlico\-          -   -Autonomous province boundary
(ScepanPolje                                   Tlc.
Republic boundories
International boundary
* 4ratinje         '.>    /                                \\        \
v                                  <           ? , 1                                    K           :         \              |  6  i MCS (Modified Mercalli Scale)
Kosonico
:          t t   _Trsr                           ]            ".    OKourer)n.
(          -            ~~~~~Zabljals           DrdevicdTara               ~*                    ~         S R /
Plu ine0       'S
-----    Paina Voda                                  I                 N
x~~~
Krstoc          oBajovo Polie           jiJELO POLJE
/                                '\-'                                          SlSovniLi  4 I ijepacMoss
Savnik                                Moikovoc
(5                                 Gorij"e  i      /KolaGin                                                 IVANGRAD                      oiaje
KusideKl
NS _   _7 +/cManastirMoraa                      IMatekevo
-A        -ndrijevico
\'    rVilusi     Podbozur
rs _!Nudo                     I       o ic|                                                                    ___           X
j  -__Groahovo                                                                                             rin                  KOSOVO
0            X ~~~Cevo    < o go                 t(                         ~     (         ne           ^ -
'6 ~        Rio                                      anibicgrad
gERCEG yso                         Cekonie                             GTOGRAD         /                AL 8A  N    i A'
Tuiva .g   
< ~~~~A  d r   r6' t / sr  PetrOw-XZov   a<-     ....z;
~~~~~~~~  (~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A  . r  Petrovs.Stro--
SS, R 74t0UI A                                                                                                   20
805NIA~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c    uc,csc                                         dSr S,c 
cc dccVc    = Ccu ==u l



