OrPICIAL
DOC11CETS    LOAN NUMBER 1769 YU
Loan Agreement
(Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation
Project - Railways)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZELEZNICKA TRANSPORTNA ORGANIZACIJA TITOCRAD
(Titograd Railway Transport Organization)
Dated     N/0AYev lo,     % 0     , 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1769 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       en><'   eA   '         , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ZELEZNICKA TRANSPORTNA ORGANIZACIJA TITOGRAD
(Titograd Railway Transport Organization) (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is an autonomous organization,
established and operating in the territory of the Socialist
Republic of Montenegro pursuant to its Self-Management Agreement
on Associating into Working Organization Railway Transport Organi-
zation Titograd dated April 27, 1977 and its Statutes dated
September 27, 1979, and is associated with Yugoslav railway trans-
port enterprises and organizations within Zajednica Jugoslovenskih
Zeleznica (Community of Yugoslav Railways) (hereinafter called
CYR);
(B) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), the Socialist Republic of Montenegro
(hereinafter called Montenegro) and the Borrower have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(C) the Guarantor has enacted a Law Providing Funds for
Reconstruction published in the Official Gazette of the Guarantor
No. 36 of July 27, 1979;
(D) Montenegro, by a Decision of its Assembly adopted on
July 31, 1979 and published in the Official Gazette of Montenegro
No. 23 of August 1, 1979, has enacted a Law establishing the Fund
for Rehabilitation and Construction of Areas Affected by Catastro-
phic Earthquakes in 1979 (hereinafter called the Fund) for chan-
nelling and earmarking resources for specific sectors;
(E) Montenegro has adopted or will adopt Decisions, or has
given or will give other appropriate assurances in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, by which Montenegro undertakes
for the purposes of assisting in the financing of the Project: (i)
to make available or cause to be made available to the Borrower,
as and when required, on appropriate terms, out of the proceeds of
the Fund, financial resources in an amount estimated to be not
less than thirty-eight million three hundred thousand dollars
($38,300,000) equivalent required for the carrying out of the
~~r


﻿- 2 -
-2-
Project, and for said purpose, the Borrower will enter into an
agreement with Investiciona Banka Titograd - Udrufena Banka
(hereinafter called IBT) on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (hereinafter called the IBT Agreement); and (ii) to make
available or cause to be made available to the Borrower, as and
when required, on appropriate terms, any additional funds required
for the carrying out of the Project over and above the funds to be
made available in accordance with the IBT Agreement;
(F) the Borrower and IBT have entered or are about to
enter into an agreement (hereinafter called the IBT Basic Agree-
ment) providing for IBT's undertaking to administer and coordinate
the financing for the Project, and for other purposes, all as more
fully set forth therein;
(G)  the Borrower and CYR have entered or are about to enter
into an agreement (hereinafter called the CYR Agreement) providing
for CYR's undertaking to assume certain responsibilities under the
Project, as more fully set forth therein;
(H)   the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank-'s entering
into this Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the f,iregoing,
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower on the terms and condi-
tions in this Agreement set forth or referred to;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
ITr


﻿-3-
(a) "Social Accounting Service" means the SluEba Dru9tvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 281 of the Constitution
of the Guaranter;
(b) "Self-Management, Law or Statutes of CYR" means the
Self-Management Agreement on Association of Railway Transport
Enterprises into CYR, dated July 3, 1973, published in the Of fi-
cial Paper of CYR on July 27, 1973, in accordance with the Law on
the Obligatory Association of Railway Transport Enterprises into
CYR published in the Official Gazette of the Guarantor No. 25/72,
and the Statutes defining, inter alia, the objectives and work of
CYR and its organization and management, approved by CYR's
Assembly on December 18, 1974 and published in CYR Official Paper
No. 1, of January 1975;
(c) "IBT Self-Management Agreement and Statutes" means the
Self-Management Agreement on Association and the Statutes of IBT,
both dated January 16, 1978, as amended from time to time; and
(d) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement No.
1534 YU (Fifth Railway Project) between the Bank and CYR dated
April 13, 1978.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby represents that it shall,
througl, the IBT Basic Agreement, designate IBT as its representa-
tive fcr the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be laken under the provisions set forth or referred to in
Sectioni, 2.02, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07 and 2.08 of this Agreement, and
Article! III, IV and V and Sections 6.01 and 6.05 of the General
Conditions; and for such purposes, the Borrower and IBT shall take
such 'ctions as are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engiieering and railway manage-
ment practices and in close cooperation with CYR.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of assisting the Borrower:
(i) in the administration of the Loan; (ii) in the preparation of
plans and specifications for the Project; (iii) in the prepara-
tion of bidding documents, bid evaluation and coordinating pro-
curement; and (iv) in reporting on the progress of the Project,
.                 r


﻿-5-
the Borrower shall fully cooperate with the panel of experts of
CYR referred to in Section 3.02 of the Prior Loan Agreement.
(b) For the purposes of assisting the Borrower in the
supervision of repair and rehabilitation works for the Project,
the Borrower shall, to the extent required, seek the assistance of
qualified organizations acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, through CYR, furnish to
the Bank, for its approval, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project, all in
accordance with guidelines agreed within CYR; (ii) shall enable
the Bank's and CYR's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank, through CYR, at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank,
through CYR, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's and CYR's repre-
sentatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall acquire the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan free of any encumbrances.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall at all times conduct
its operations, manage its affairs, plan its investments and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
financial, engineering and railway management principles and
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management.
(b-) Without any limitation to the generality of the fore-
going paragraph, the Borrower shall at all times employ an
adequate number of appropriately qualified staff, including
engineers, economists, financial analysts and procurement
officers, for the purpose of planning investments, placing con-
tracts and monitoring the execution of all contracts and works.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate railway practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to maintain or renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿-7-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its railway network, equipment and installations and
make all necessary renewals or repairs in accordance with appro-
priate engineering and railway management practices.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient operation of its business.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and
experienced auditing organization; (b) furnish to the Bank
through CYR as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies
of its finpncial statements for such year as so audited and (ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (c)
furnish to the Bank through CYR such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any


﻿- 8
-8-
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any of the Decisions or assurances referred to in
Recital (E) of the Preamble to this Agreement shall have been
terminated or abrogated or shall have been modified, in such a
manner as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower to carry out its obligations under this Agreement;
(b) any provision (i) of the IBT Agreement, or (ii) of the
IBT Basic Agreement, or (iii) of the CYR Agreement, or (iv) of
such articles of the Borrower's Self-Management Agreement or
Statutes as affect in any way whatever the Borrower's ability to
carry out the Project, or (v) of such articles of CYR's Self-
Management Agreement, Law or Statutes as affect in any way what-
ever CYR's ability to carry out any of the obligations in the Loan
Agreement contained in respect of CYR, or (vi) of such articles of
IBT's Self-Management Agreement or Statutes as affect in any way
whatever IBT's ability to carry out any of the obligations in the
Loan Agreement contained in respect of IBT, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated without the prior
approval of the Bank; and
(c) any part of the principal amount of any loan or credit
to the Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable
in advance of maturity as provided in the relevant contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan or credit shall
have become enforceable.


﻿Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) Montenegro shall have adopted the Decisions or given the
assurances referred to in Recital (E) of the Preamble to this
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) the IBT Agreement, the IBT Basic Agreement and the CYR
Agreement shall have been duly authorized by all necessary
action and shall be in full force and effect.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Decisions or other assurances referred to in
above Section 7.01 (a) have been duly taken and validly given by
Montenegro and are in full force and effect;
(b) that all approvals, consents or decisions required for
the Borrower to carry out the Project have been duly given or
made; and
(c) that the IBT Agreement, the IBT Basic Agreement and the
CYR Agreement are in full force and effect and are legally binding
on the parties thereto.


﻿-10-
Section 7.03. The date       a        if$O, is hereby speci-
f ied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Zelezni6ka Transportna
Organizacija Titograd
Titograd
Mitra Baki'a 13
Yugoslavia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 11 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ZELEZNICKA TRANSPORTNA ORGANIZACIJA TITOGRAD
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Repair and rehabi-            8,100,000         27%
litation works in-
cluding equipment
and materials for
fixed installa-
tions and buildings,
and geological research
(2) Expansion of yards            2,000,000         27%
at Bar and Titograd
including equipment
and materials
(3) Replacement of                  500,000         27%
traction and
rolling stock
(4) Unallocated                   3,400,000
TOTAL             14,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end,, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
Ir


﻿- 13 -
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments ide for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures, as determined in agreement with the Bank, before
that date but after April 15, 1979.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Following the damages caused by earthquakes in 1979 to the
existing railway network and facilities of Montenegro, the Pro-
ject's objectives are to eliminate hazards of accidents on said
network and facilities by preventing further physical deteriora-
tion, to restore railway lines to service on-going economic
activities and to improve the Borrower's operations as to handle
additional freight trafic resulting from rehabilitation programs
in the earthquake-affected areas.
The Project consists of: (a) repair works to preserve damaged
railway facilities; (b) rehabilitation works on about 40 km of the
Lutovo-Titograd section and 30 km of the Zeta-Bar section on the
Belgrade-Bar mainline and on about 10 km on the Titograd-Niksic
branch line; (c) the expansion of Titograd and Bar yard facilities
with the construction of loading and unloading tracks; and (d)
geological and soil mechanical research.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1982.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1983
through   June 1, 1994                     585,000
On December 1, 1994                              545,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      3.20%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               5.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                               6.90%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                               7.95%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of procurement as described
in Part B of the Guidelines and outlined in paragraph 3 hereunder.
2.   (a) CYR shall on behalf of the Borrower coordinate procure-
ment for the Project and process on behalf of the Borrower all
information required by the Bank concerning procurement.
(b) Bid evaluation for contracts on which the Loan proceeds
may be disbursed shall be carried out by the Borrower with the
participation of at least one member of the panel of experts
referred to in So:ction 3.02 of the Prior Loan Agreement.
(c) If foreign firms wish to participate in the bidding for
the contracts referred to in paragraph 3 (b) hereunder, they shall
be entitled to do so and shall not be required to register in
Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the event
that registration shall be necessary after a foreign firm has been
notified that it will be awarded a contract, the Borrower and CYR
shall facilitate the registration. Said contracts shall include a
provision allowing foreign firms to convert into foreign exchange
and to repatriate a reasonable portion of contract payments, and
to import equipment and specialized manpower as required to carry
out their services.
3.   (a) Repair or rehabilitation works which must be carried
out urgently and under traffic, as determined in agreement
with the Bank, may be procured on the basis of limited bidding
amongst contractors qualified for work under traffic, in accor-
dance with procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Because of the urgency of the works concerned, the
following items may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procurement proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank:


﻿- 18 -
-    a contract for an apartment building estimated to
cost about $3,000,000 equivalent;
-    a contract for a depot and workshop complex estimated
to cost about $2,500,000 equivalent; and
-    contracts for buildings and civil works in scattered
locations outside tLe traffic area estimated to cost
less than $1,000,000 each and $4,000,000 in the aggre-
gate.
(c) Rails and other track materials estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $3,000,000 in the aggregate, may be pro-
cured under an extension of the existing contracts to be concluded
after negotiations and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
(d) Installation of protecting nets with signalling devices
for safety purposes estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $2,000,000, may be procured through negotiated contracts
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) Standardized equipment required to replace destroyed
electrical installations and rolling stock, estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $2,500,000 in the aggregate, may be pur-
chased from the original suppliers after negotiations and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank through CYR, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
I,r


﻿- 19 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower, through CYR, shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and furnish to the Bank, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank through CYR promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first Application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   The Borrower shall establish, from time to time, as deter-
mined in agreement with the Bank and CYR, a list of contracts
estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 each, to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, each of those contracts being oh terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and CYR before its execu-
tion. With respect to each of those contracts to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank through CYR,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award, if applicable, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 20 -
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
-------------------------------------------------------  ~ .1


﻿ ] -     -)   -g  I.- .- - -* - -I
- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Actions to be taken by the Borrower and IBT in accordance
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.09 of
the Loan Agreement:
1.   (a) Upon the Borrower's written request, IBT shall promptly
take the following action with respect to the Borrower's Loan:
(i) make applications for withdrawal from the Loan
Account and pay to the Borrower, or on its order
the amounts so withdrawn;
(ii) request the Bank to enter into any special commit-
ments in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.02 of the General Conditions;
(iii) give the Bank notice of any repayment in advance
of maturity in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General
Conditions;
(iv) request the Bank to purchase any currency needed
by the Borrower for payment of principal, interest
and other charges, as provided by Section 4.05 of
the General Conditions;
(v) give the Bank any notice of cancellation in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 6.01 of the
General Conditions; and
(vi) in general, take any action required or permitted
to be taken by the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the General Conditions and the Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 2.09 of the Loan
Agreement.
(b) Any request submitted to IBT in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) above shall be in such form, and
include such supporting documentation as IBT shall determine in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
2.   All payments to be made to the Bank by the Borrower shall
be made through IBT.


﻿- 22-
3.   IBT shall assign qualified and experienced staff in suffi-
cient numbers for the carrying out of the actions to be carried
out by it on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with this
Schedule 5.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J0       day of 1    .A, 197.
FOR SECRETARY


