Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11844
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1672-GH)
APRIL 30, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma. not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit =      Cedis (¢)
US$1          =      386 Cedis
SDR I         =      US$ 1.08 at negotiations
SDR I         =      US$ 1.43 at closing
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOG           =      Bank of Ghana
CBS           =      Central Bureau of Statistics
DFD           =      Development Finance Department, Bank of Ghana
ERP           =      Economic Recovery Program
FRI           =      Food Research Institute
FUSMED        =      Fund for Small and Medium Enterprise Development
GIC           =      Ghana Investment Centre
GSB           =      Ghana Standards Board
GSS           =      Ghana Statistical Service (formerly CBS)
ISAC          =      Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
MFEP          =      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MIST          =      Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology
PIB           =      Prices and Incomes Board
PNDC          =      Provisional National Defense Council
RIC           =      Reconstruction Import Credit
SIP           =      Government Statement of Industrial Policy
SUL           =      Special Unnumbered Import Licenses
UNDP          =      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U. S A.
Omce of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Ghana
Industrial Sector Adiustment Credit (Credit 1 672-GH)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Ghana - Industrial
Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 1672-GH)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The project had three basic objectives. First, to break the constraint on foreign exchange
available for import of industrial inputs. Second, to rehabilitate potentially viable manufacturing
enterprises. Third, to strengthen key institutions in the public and private sectors involved in economic
and financial analysis and restructuring. In addition, a studies component was designed to identify
options with respect to enterprise and subsector restructuring programs.
The project has performed satisfactorily overall and its institutional development achievements
have been satisfactory. Hence, sustainability of the benefits is likely.
The PCR makes a good assessment of project design and implementation but lacks information
on impact in terms of capacity utilization and industrial growth as well as sub-project performance.
There is also no assessment of the impact of the combined abolition of quantitative restrictions on
imports and reduction of tariff levels and their dispersion. The transitional and structural problems
resulting from retrenchment of labor are also not discussed.
An audit of the adjustment credit is being carried out because it is an important element in a
reform process that began in 1 983 and continued over a decade. There are questions about the
institutional framework of the adjustment process; the timing, sequencing and intensity of trade
reforms; the impact on the financial viability of enterprises; and the incentives to save and invest.
These issues are relevant to the future role of adjustment operations in Ghana.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discdosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1672-GH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .            ..................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .......................................  ii
Implementation Experience ................................... iii
PAR, 1: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  .................    1
1. Project Identity.                                                                   1
2. Background.                                                                          1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                                4
4.      Project Preparation, Design and Organization.                                  6
5.  Project Implementation.                                                            6
6. Results.                                                                            9
7.  Project Sustainability .10
8. IDA's Performance .11
9.  Borrower's Performance .11
10. Consulting Services .12
11. Documentation and Data .12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                          ...  13
1.   Introduction  .........................................                          13
2. Project Preparation, Design and Implementation .13
3. Project Achievement ....................................   15
PART Im: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................   16
3.1 Status of Covenants .16
3.2 Related IDA Credits .18
3.3 Project Timetable .19
3.4 Loan Disbursements .19
3.5     Mission Data ..........             ............................   20
3.6    Staff Inputs ...........             ............................   20
3.7     Project Costs and Financing (to be supplied by Borrower) ....         ......  20
3.8     Recipients of Subloans Under Ghana ISAC (Credit 1672-GH) ....           ....  21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1672-GH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
(ISAC) to the Republic of Ghana, for which Credit 1672-GH in the amount of SDR 25.7
million (US$28.5 million equivalent at the time of negotiations) and an African Facility Credit
of SDR 22.5 million (US$25 million equivalent) were approved by the Board on March 27,
1986. The credits were fully disbursed and the project closed on December 31, 1991, one
year behind schedule.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Industry and Energy Division of the Western
Africa Department in the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
Im) and by the Bank of Ghana and the Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology (Part II).
Preparation of the report was based on data and reports available in the project files,
and discussions with some members of the Project team.






- jj -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1672-GH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.           With Bank Group and IMF support, Ghana embarked in 1983 on an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) which stabilized the economy and set the stage for resumed growth
after a period of decline and stagnation caused by poor economic policies and a sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade. While waiting for policy reforms and rehabilitation
programs to have their effect, Ghana needed external resources to increase the supply of
goods on the market and enhance the performance of institutions in order to sustain an
economic environment conducive to those reforms. In 1984, the Government began
discussions with IDA concerning an adjustment program for the industrial sector. The main
elements of such a program emerged from extensive sector work undertaken during 1984-85.
The ISAC credit was intended to provide quick-disbursing assistance to help raise production
of manufactured goods while facilitating a medium-term restructuring of the industrial sector
through incentive policy reforms and strengthening of key institutions.
Project Objectives and Description
2.           The ISAC project's major objective was to complement various reforms to the
incentives framework by helping the Government carry out the first phase (1986-88) of its
medium-term industrial adjustment program, which aimed at: (a) increasing production of
locally manufactured goods through greater use of existing capacity; (b) streamlining Ghana's
industrial capacity, through (i) appropriate incentive policies, and (ii) selective rehabilitation
of economically viable industries; and (c) strengthening key institutions in the industrial sector
to undertake policy analysis, credit delivery and investment analysis. Thus, the ISAC project
concentrated on three main areas: reform of incentive policies, provision of finance for
industrial inputs and rehabilitation, and strengthening of policy planning and project
implementation capabilities in the Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology (MIST), the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP), the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and selected
support institutions.
3.           The combined IDA Credit of US$28.5 million equivalent and Africa Facility
Credit of US$25.0 million equivalent financed the four components described below. Joint
IDA/African Facility financing was used for the industrial imports component (a), while the
IDA Credit financed components (b), (c), and (d).
(a)    The industrial inputs component ($40 million), implemented by MIST and
BOG, included the importation of industrial raw materials, spare parts, and
other inputs. MIST prepared the annual import program and BOG sold the
necessary foreign exchange to importers to faciitate imports under the
component. The funds provided under ISAC for the importation of industrial



- iii -
inputs also financed part of the Government's annual import program for
industry, which covered inputs and capital goods only.
(b)    The industrial rehabilitation component ($10 million) was implemented by the
Development Finance Department (DFD) of BOG under an apex lending
arrangement involving seven commercial and development banks in Ghana
that had expressed an interest in participating in the Credit. The component
financed equipment and services for the rehabilitation/restructuring of selected
enterprises. Financing was also provided for rehabilitation proposals from
existing enterprises deemed economically viable over the long run, with
priority given to industries using domestic resources to produce basic
consumer or exportable goods, and making full use of rehabilitated capacity.
Participating banks made the final decisions on approving rehabilitation
investment proposals, according to criteria set out in the Project Agreement.
(c)    The institutional strengthening component (US$ 3.0 million) included US$1.8
million for advisory and consultant services and US$1.92 million for
equipment and vehicles. Each agency involved was responsible for
implementing its own strengthening program. The component financed
technical assistance to BOG, MFEP, MIST, the Central Bureau of Statistics
(CBS), the Ghana Standards Board (GSB), the Food Research Institute (FRI)
and the Ghana Investment Centre (GIC). The total cost (including
contingencies) of these technical assistance and training activities was
estimated at US$4.8 million, of which the proposed Credit was to finance
US$3.0 million (63%), with Government providing US$0.4 million (8%), and
UNDP US$1.4 million (29%).
(d)    The studies component ($0.5 million) was intended to generate policy options,
enterprise and subsector level restructuring programs and other measures for
achieving the Government's medium-term industrial adjustment objectives.
Three agencies - MIST, MFEP, and BOG - were involved. MIST was
responsible for subsector studies, MFEP for policy analysis studies, and BOG
for studies to design export incentives and to prepare enterprise (mainly
public) restructuring plans. The total studies budget was estimated at US$1.0
million, of which the proposed Credit financed US$0.5 million. The balance
was financed by UNDP (US$50,000) and a grant (US$0.45 million) from the
United Kingdom.
Imnlementation ExRerience
4.           The project got off to a good start, and project performance continued overall
to be quite satisfactory throughout the implementation period. The project closed on
December 31, 1991, one year behind schedule. Two six-month extensions in the closing date
were granted to allow implementing agencies to complete pending work and fully utilize the
undisbursed balance. All criteria for the disbursement of the second tranche were met
satisfactorily and the tranche was released in February 1987, a few months ahead of schedule
(Part I, para 5.9). The quick-disbursing industrial inputs component (US$40M) of the credit
was fully disbursed well before the original closing date of December 31, 1990. Utilization
of the subloans under the industrial rehabilitation component (US$10M) was initially



- iv -
paralyzed for about a year by the interest rate and foreign exchange risk conditions that had
been designed before the reform in exchange rate policy in late 1986 (see paras. 5.3-5.6).
The legal documents were amended on October 17, 1987 to reflect the changed conditions and
also to broaden the definition of eligible enterprises to include new enterprises. (The lesson
learned here concerning exchange rates was applied in designing the Small and Medium
Enterprise (SME) Project, Cr. 1996-GH, approved in FY89.) Under the institutional
strengthening component (US$ 3.OM), the training program at BOG was carried out
satisfactorily, although there were delays in the implementation of this component with regard
to CBS and GIC. While there were delays in implementing the studies component
(US$0.5M), all the studies were completed before the extended closing date. Study results
were used to promote non-traditional exports, to reform exchange rate policy, and to
liberalize imports (para 6.4). The project was fully disbursed, and the Borrower complied
with credit covenants, except for lengthy delays in submitting audit reports, which are now all
in.
Results
5.            The operation was largely successful. Incentive policy reforms (exchange
rate, price liberalization, import liberalization and export promotion measures) were fully
implemented and the Government continues to maintain these incentive reforms. Increased
availability of foreign exchange for industrial inputs and spare parts enabled many firms to
increase capacity utilization, manufacturing output and employment. Export earnings,
especially from non-traditional exports, have improved. The main result of the ISAC was to
raise production of locally manufactured goods in Ghana. This was achieved through the
transfer of resources to the annual import program for industry, thus helping to alleviate the
main short-term constraint to increasing industrial production. The annual import program
helped the industrial sector achieve moderate, but steady, growth rates over the period 1985-
90 (para 7.2), as opposed to the steady decline observed since 1977, which had reduced real
output by nearly half. The ISAC project provided funds to import needed industrial inputs,
which otherwise would not have been available.
6.           The industrial sector as a whole has also become more efficient as a result of
policy reforms associated with the project. Whereas import restrictions used to protect
inefficient industries, the disappearance of these restrictions has led to the closing down of
inefficient plants and increased efficiency in the remaining ones. While the impact of
rehabilitation and new investments can take a long time to be felt, the twelve enterprises that
received subloans under the rehabilitation component have been able to reduce downtime,
improve product quality and achieve energy savings.
7.            Most aspects of the institution building component of the operation were
greeted with enthusiasm by the beneficiaries in the government agencies concerned.
Availability of equipment and vehicles has enhanced the effectiveness of support institutions.
The training program on project analysis, evaluation and supervision worked well and was
appreciated by BOG, and other participating financial institutions and agencies, to such an
extent that some private enterprises paid for their staff to attend the training. Participating
banks are now more adept at project appraisal and preparation. On the other hand, the
technical assistance (TA) to the GIC and CBS was slow to get off the ground. CBS
completed Phase I of the industrial survey/census satisfactorily, while Phase II had not been
completed by the closing date, nor had the update of foreign trade statistics been published.



Phase I was still useful, however, as it provided an update of the registry of Ghanaian
industries by subsector and location. In collaboration with UNDP, the operation funded
several potentially useful subsector studies, the results of which may assist the Government in
formulating sector strategy.
Conclusion and Lessons Learned
8.           The impact of the project may be considered sustainable, since there is no
reason to believe that the Government will reverse any of the policy measures that have had a
positive impact on Ghana's economy, and IDA has seen fit to build upon and reinforce these
policy reforms through subsequent adjustment operations. The ISAC project influenced the
product mix available on the domestic market through the allocation of foreign exchange to
their producers. It also helped increase capacity utilization in these industries, reducing unit
costs, reinforcing downward price pressures and benefitting employment. The policy reforms
supported by the ISAC helped achieve a restructuring of Ghana's industrial capacity to
increase its efficiency. Institutional strengthening activities under the ISAC facilitated the
adjustment process and helped rebuild institutional capacities that had deteriorated
significantly. Staff training activities enabled the financial institutions to improve the quality
of work and services performed and thereby contribute more effectively to economic growth.
9.            The first lesson that can be drawn is that good economic and sector work
leads to a good project. The ISAC project was linked to, and grew out of, extensive and in-
depth economic and sector work by IDA. Second is the importance of having a project
reinforce and supplement ongoing reforms. The policy reforms undertaken in the context of
ISAC (exchange rate, price liberalization, import liberalization and export promotion
measures) reinforced and supplemented those undertaken previously under the Reconstruction
Import Credit and Export Rehabilitation Credits, and the reforms initiated under ISAC were
in turn reinforced by reforms under other structural adjustment credits. Third, it is important
for both the borrower and IDA to be flexible and adapt to changes in the policy environment.
Tbis was clearly illustrated with respect to the amendment to the legal documents regarding
the determination of interest rates and the bearer of foreign exchange risks. Fourth, intensive
supervision, which was carried out in this case, greatly enhances project effectiveness. Fifth,
the existence of an ISAC project unit within the BOG was a great advantage, especially since
the unit was in place before effectiveness and was composed of staff already employed by
BOG's Development Finance Department. With regard to the difficulties encountered with
technical assistance to the GIC (caused by a change in management at GIC in the course of
project implementation), the lesson to be learned is perhaps that it is wise to emphasize
nownership" of the project by the implementing agencies, and not just by specific individuals
who may leave the benefitting agency, leaving successors with different ideas and priorities.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1672-GH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Ideati
Project Name           Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC)
Credit Number          1672-GH
RVP Unit               Africa Region
Country                Republic of Ghana
Sector           :     Industry
2.    Background
2.1          At the time the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC) was appraised in
1986, Ghana's previously adequate standard of living had declined precipitously. Average per
capita income in 1984 was estimated at US$350 and about half the population of about 12
million was thought to be living in absolute poverty. Ghana's economy was highly dependent
on primary products, such as cocoa, for exports. Efforts to diversify the export base had had
little success, and manufacturing depended heavily on imported inputs. Throughout the
1970s, Ghana's economy was characterized by a perpetual foreign exchange crisis that
spurred increasingly restrictive import regimes, which in turn starved the economy of the
imported inputs that were the main fuel for its growth. The related erosion of the tax base
and drop in economic activity forced severe reductions in Government operations and
maintenance and capital expenditures, further reducing the country's productive capacity.
2.2          In the early 1980s, Ghana suffered other problems, including a prolonged
drought, a petroleum price hike, a drop in cocoa and gold prices, and a sudden influx of over
one million Ghanaians from Nigeria. The cumulative effect of these 'shocks' was seen in the
key economic indicators between 1970 and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30
percent; import volumes fell by a third; real export earnings fell 52 percent; domestic savings
and investment declined from 12 and 14 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1970 to almost
insignificant levels; inflation ran at 44 percent per annum over the period.
2.3          The Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) cane to power in
December 1981 and drew up an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in collaboration with the
IMF and the World Bank. Policy measures were aimed at realigning relative prices in favor
of production (particularly cocoa, timber, and minerals), improving Government's financial
position, and encouraging private investment. The most important measure was the move
towards a more realistic exchange rate (C90tSl in January 1986.) Administered prices were
adjusted to reduce the distortions arising from the overvalued exchange rate, and price
controls were largely dismantled. Interest rates became positive in real terms.
2.4          Following the announcement of the ERP, the long-dormant Ghana
Consultative Group was reconvened and broadly supported the Government's program. New
aid commitments materialized following the Group's 1984 meeting and, given the existing



- 2 -
pipeline, disbursements during 1985 were about US$300 million, helping to finance the
increase in imports, thereby stimulating domestic production and exports. Economic
performance improved on several counts, benefitting to a large degree from more normal
rainfall, but also from better policies. The economy grew by nearly 8 percent in 1985, and
growth in GDP was estimated at about 5 percent, spurred primarily by higher output in
forestry, mining, and manufacturing. Ghana's deteriorated economic and social infrastructure
had become a critical bottleneck to efforts to generate a strong supply response. Accordingly,
the 1984-86 portion of the ERP launched rehabilitation programs in key sectors - agriculture,
mining, and economic infrastructure - and pointed up the existence of many potential projects
with high returns on incremental investments.
2.5          In the context of the ERP, the Government requested help in developing a
program specifically for industrial adjustrnent. Such an adjustment program evolved from
IDA's sector work and dialogue with the Government. In its initial years, this multi-year
program emphasized increased capacity utilization, an appropriate policy framework
depending on efficient resource use, and an institutional framework capable of designing and
implementing policies and programs for industrial growth. Although Ghana's industrial
capacity was relatively large and diverse at the time the ISAC project was identified, it was
largely underutilized for lack of domestic and imported raw materials. This large under-
utilized capacity offered an opportunity for significant increases in manufacturing output in a
short period if the required raw materials, largely imported, could be provided. In addition,
many industrial plants needed replacement and modernization to improve productivity and
meet market demand.
2.6          IDA's lending strategy in Ghana at that time emphasized: (a) support for
policies designed to return the economy to a growth mode; (b) rehabilitation and improved
capacity utilization of the country's existing productive assets; (c) increased agricultural and
industrial production, particularly for export promotion and efficient import substitution; and
(d) improved infrastructure and increased productivity in such key sectors as transport, water,
petroleum, and power. Two Reconstruction Import Credits (RICs) were approved to cover
emergency imLport requirements for productive sectors. Two additional credits were granted
for export rehabilitation and related technical assistance. An industrial sector study, a public
expenditure review, an agricultural sector review and an energy assessment were carried out,
and these sector reviews indicated that projects with major rehabilitation components were
likely to show the highest benefits and quickest returns.
2.7          IDA's analysis of Ghana's comparative advantage revealed five major
structural weaknesses in the sector: (a) the imported input requirements of full capacity
production greatly exceeded the amount of foreign exchange available for that purpose at the
time; (b) full capacity production exceeded the domestic market in some subsectors; (c)
processing capacity often exceeded the availability of local raw materials; (d) direct public
sector holdings exceeded what the Government could manage effectively; and (e) a substantial
share of capacity was unlikely to be able to produce competitively with imported goods. The
analysis also revealed that, although two-thirds of firms surveyed were operating inefficiently
in 1983, most were probably capable of efficiency if allowed to operate close to full capacity.
IDA's analysis of the potential of manufactured goods exports from Ghana indicated that, in a
reformed policy environment, exports could recover to its levels of the mid-1970s when they
accounted for about three percent of the manufacturing sector's output, and could even show



-3 -
more substantial growth as the additional investment and structural changes expected as a
result of the ERP began to make themselves felt.
2.8           The Government issued a Statement of Industrial Policy (SIP) in early 1986
outlinig its industrial development objectives and strategy. The short-run objective was to
promote rapid industrial recovery through greater use of existing capacity. The medium-term
objective was to break production bottlenecks in the most efficient industries and achieve
significant cost reductions in others that are potentially viable. The long term objective was
to achieve an internationally competitive industrial structure more closely linked to domestic
resources.
2.9           The Government also took steps to improve a business environment previously
ambivalent to private enterprise. In revising the Investment Code, the Government
demonstrated its commitment to an open economy and to greater participation by both
domestic and foreign private investors. The Government took measures to reduce protection
accorded to local manufactures. The exchange rate was depreciated by over 80 percent in
real terms during the 1983-85 period. The tariff structure was simplified. A phased program
of import liberalization began in 1987 (not under the auspices of the project). In the area of
export promotion, substantial exchange rate adjustments and automatic retention of a portion
of export earnings were the main elements of the incentive package. The Ghana Export
Promotion Council was strengthened and given responsibiity for monitoring improvements in
the policy and administrative framework for exports and for formulating further export
incentives. Tax and price incentives were reviewed. Price controls were limited to eight
"essential commodities', of which six are manufactured locally (textiles, soap/detergent,
matches, cutlasses, drugs and cement). The Government also removed distribution controls
on items freed from price controls and generally left buyers and suppliers free to negotiate
even for items nominally under price controls. A program for the rationalization (including
privatization/divestiture) of state enterprises was drawn up to deal with overall issues such as
policy, criteria for divestiture/retention of public enterprises, institutional restructuring for
monitoring of public enterprises, selective rehabilitation, and reducing the role of the state in
selected state enterprises through encouraging joint ventures and divestiture. Public
investment in industry during 1986-88 was to be limited to urgent rehabilitation of industries
deemed financially and economically viable and for which the necessary foreign exchange to
make full use of rehabilitated capacity was likely to be available within the constraints of the
annual import program for industry. The problem of industrial finance was addressed through
a deferred debit scheme for import financing intended to ease the liquidity position of
importing enterprises.
2.10          Several institutions needed strengthening: the Ministry of Industries, Science
and Technology (MIST) needed help in the areas of policy formulation, monitoring of public
expenditures, dissemination of sector information, monitoring of sector performance and
problems, import programming, coordination and formulation/implementation of the
rationalization program for industrial public enterprises. The Bank of Ghana (BOG) needed
to increase its implementation capacity for apex-lending arrangements, and the staff of local
banks needed to be trained in project appraisal and supervision and financial restructuring.
The Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) needed to conduct an industrial census, clear the
backlog of industrial and foreign trade statistics and thereafter produce them in a timely
manner. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MIFEP) needed to boost its
capacity to formulate, implement, and monitor tariff, trade, and related policies. Finally,



-4 -
technical support institutions such as the Ghana Standards Board (GSB) and Food Research
Institute (FRI) needed support to fulfill their function of providing quality control and product
testing services to manufacturers.
2.11          The (1986-88) portion of the ERP moved on to the following issues: (a)
improving macroeconomic policies and incentives; (b) increased emphasis on specific sectoral
concerns in the key sectors of industry, agriculture, energy, education and health; (c)
rehabilitation of human capital through increased spending on training, health and education;
(d) reform of wage and employment policies, rationalization of state enterprises, and
encouragements to the private sector; (e) financial and banking sector reforms to facilitate
resource mobilization and allocation; (f) shifting of external assistance and debt away from
stabilization and towards longer-term supply-oriented programs and projects; and (g) increased
focus on rural poverty and rural development.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1          ISAC was meant to support industrial sector reforms under the ERP, provide
quick-disbursing assistance to raise production of manufactured goods, furnish technical
assistance to fill skill gaps as needed, while facilitating a medium-term restructuring of the
industrial sector through incentive policy reforms and strengthening of key institutions. The
ISAC's main objective was to help the Government carry out the first phase (1986-88) of its
medium-term industrial adjustment program, which aimed at: (a) increasing production of
locally manufactured goods through greater use of existing capacity; (b) streamlining Ghana's
industrial capacity, through (i) appropriate incentive policies and (ii) cautious and selective
rehabilitation of economically viable industries; and (c) strengthening key institutions in the
industrial sector to undertake policy analysis, credit delivery and investment analysis. The
IDA Credit of US$28.5 million and African Facility Credit of US$25.0 million financed four
components as listed below. Joint IDA/African Facility financing was used for the industrial
imports component while the IDA Credit financed the other three components.
(a)   Industrial ImDorts Component (USS40M). The main constraint to increased
capacity utilization was the lack of foreign exchange to import raw materials
and spare parts. Import requirements for full capacity production were
estimated to exceed US$250 million per year, of which only 25-40 percent
could be provided. The Government allocated foreign exchange to different
sectors through an annual import program under which enterprise-level
allocations were made by the relevant Ministry. The funds provided under the
ISAC for import of industrial inputs were meant to finance part of the
Government's annual import programs for industry. This component was
implemented by MIST, which prepared the annual import program, and BOG,
which sold the necessary foreign exchange to importers to facilitate imports
under this component.
(b)    Industrial Rehabilitation Component (USS1OM). Many Ghanaian enterprises
required rehabilitation to improve productivity. However, it was recognized
that rehabilitation had to proceed slowly since (i) indiscriminate rehabilitation
could worsen the structural weaknesses in the sector; (ii) modest investments
were sufficient for most industries; and (iii) it would continue to be difficult to
provide the foreign exchange needed to fully utilize the rehabilitated capacity.



Therefore, the ISAC financed only a limited number of rehabilitation
proposals from enterprises deemed economically viable over the long run.
Priority was given to industries using domestic resources, producing basic
consumer or exportable goods, and making full use of rehabilitated capacity.
This selective approach was to be reviewed periodically and relaxed as the
reformed incentives framework took hold. This component was implemented
by the Development Finance Department (DFD) of the BOG under an apex
lending arrangement involving several commercial and development banks in
Ghana. Appraisal and approval of rehabilitation investment proposals was the
responsibility of the participating banks.
(c)    Institutional Strengthening Component (USS 3.OM). This component financed
technical assistance to the following institutions to support their operational
improvements and staff strengthening activities: (i) the Bank of Ghana (BOG),
to train staff of local banks, BOG, and other relevant Government agencies in
the areas of economic/financial analysis and restructuring. This training was
to go beyond the immediate needs of the ISAC and build project evaluation
capability in local banks and ministries to improve the quality of investment
analysis; (ii) the MFEP to build staff capability in analyzing incentive policy
issues, formulating appropriate policy measures, and monitoring the impact of
policy measures; (iii) the MIST, to strengthen capability for formulating and
implementing industrial policy and industrial restructuring programs; (iv) the
CBS, to carry out an industrial census (last done in 1962), timely compilation
of industrial statistics, and updating and adoption of monthly processing of
foreign trade statistics; and (v) the GSB and FRI for the purchase of
laboratory and office equipment and vehicles to provide quality control,
product testing and other services to manufacturers. The total cost (including
contingencies) of these technical assistance and training activities was
estimated at USS4.8 million, of which the ISAC financed US$3.0 million
(63%), with the Government providing US$0.4 million (8%), and UNDP
US$1.4 million (29%). Each Government agency involved was responsible
for its own strengthening program.
(d)    Studies (USS0M. Financing was included for studies to generate policy
options, enterprise and subsector restructuring programs and other measures
for achieving the Government's medium-term industrial adjustment objectives.
The total budget for the studies program was estimated at US$1.0 million, of
which ISAC was to finance US$0.5 million. The balance was to be financed
by UNDP (US$0.05 million) and by an grant (US$0.45 million) from the
United Kingdom. The studies component involved three agencies: MIST,
MFEP, and BOG. The MIST was responsible for subsector studies, the
MFEP for policy analysis studies, and BOG for studies to design export
incentives and to prepare enterprise (mainly public) restructuring plans.
3.2          The Government of Ghana was the Borrower, and retained those portions of
the Credit earmarked for the MIST (US$0.30 million), MFEP (US$0.56 million), CBS
(US$0.39 million), GSB (US$0.27 million) and FRI (US$0.43 million). The balance of the
Credit amounting to US$51.55 million was made available to the Bank of Ghana, which was
the main implementing agency.



- 6 -
4.    Project Preparation. Design and Organization
4.1          The project was well prepared. As noted in para. 2.5, the project grew out of
extensive economic and sector work. The preappraisal and appraisal missions were
supplemented by a post-appraisal (Part III, section 3.5). The organization and procedures to
implement the industrial imports component (which represented 75% of the ISAC amount)
were well established at the time of Board approval. A project unit was in place within BOG
at the time of effectiveness. MIST had already prepared a draft 1986 annual import program
for industry. For the industrial rehabilitation component, several rehabilitation investment
projects had been identified and loan requests were under preparation with the help of
consultants before project effectiveness. Bidding invitations for consultants to organize
training of local bank staff had been issued and terms of reference for all technical assistance
for the year 1986 had also been agreed before effectiveness.
5.     Proiect Implementation
5.1          Procurement, Procurement of goods and services was according to standard
procedures. All contracts valued over US$500,000 were subject to ICB and those less than
US$500,000 were awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers. Contracts
estimated at less than US$100,000 were concluded directly with suppliers. Procurement on
behalf of Government agencies and parastatals was done through a procurement agency.
Consulting services were procured according to IDA guidelines. Project records show no
significant problems with procurement. Procurement arrangements were modified slightly in
August 1987 to harmonize them with those of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC).
5.2          Disbursements. Disbursements were on the basis of 100 percent of expendi-
tures for: (a) foreign exchange costs of imported raw materials and spare parts under the
industrial imports component (US$40.0 million); (b) foreign exchange costs of imported
goods or services for eligible subloans under the rehabilitation component (US$10.0 million);
(c) expert advisory services, short-term consultancy services, and technical equipment and
vehicles under the institutional strengthening component (US$3.0 million); (d) short-term
consultancy services for studies (US$0.5 million) and (e) refinancing of the PPF advance (US
$0.28 million). Separate Special Accounts for the African Facility and the IDA Credits were
established by the BOG in a commercial bank in order to ensure speedy disbursements. An
initial deposit of US$5.0 million was paid into each Special Account upon effectiveness.
Retroactive financing of up to the equivalent of SDR 5.0 million (SDR 2.5 million each from
African Facility and IDA Credit) was provided to cover eligible expenditures made prior to
the signing of the ISAC. The BOG, as main implementing agency, maintained records of all
disbursements, including the Special Accounts, and separate accounts for amounts disbursed
on the basis of statements of expenditure. It had these accounts audited by independent
auditors, albeit with some delay in the second half of the implementation period because of
the auditing firm's overextended work commitments (a generalized problem in Ghana).
Regarding expenditures incurred by agencies other than the BOG under the institutional
strengthening and studies component, annual Statements of Receipts and Expenditure were
also furnished to IDA and audited.
5.3          For the project as a whole, cumulative disbursements consistently exceeded
projections (Part m, section 3.4). As expected, much of the quick-disbursing industrial
inputs component of ISAC was spent down rapidly, largely due to the retroactive financing



arrangements. The disbursement rate then slowed subsequently due to difficulties in
collecting import documents to permit replenishment of the Special Account, procurement
procedures that were more stringent than those of other program credits, such as the SAC
(para. 5.1), and the lack of a database within the banking system to monitor the foreign
exchange auctions. The Loan and Project Agreements were amended in September 1987 to
permit the establishment of multiple Special Accounts in six commercial banks to cover letters
of credit opened by importers who bid successfully at the foreign exchange auctions. Under
the auction system, the BOG was required to transfer foreign exchange to a successful
bidder's commercial bank immediately, but under the World Bank procedures the BOG cannot
apply for replenishment of the Special Account without import documentation. The lag
between release of the foreign exchange by the BOG and reimbursement strained government
resources. The use of multiple Special Accounts was found to ease this strain, since
commercial banks could use the Special Accounts to cover letters of credit, thereby making it
unnecessary for the BOG to advance its own foreign exchange. Disbursements from the
ISAC were also facilitated, since it was then in the interest of the commercial banks to
expedite the submission of shipping documents to the BOG, thereby ensuring timely
replenishment of the accounts and government access to the counterpart resources generated.
5.4            Disbursements under the industrial rehabilitation (sub-loans) component were
initially paralyzed. A supervision mission determined that the major obstacles were: (i) the
requirement that sub-borrowers pay the prevailing domestic interest rates and at the same time
bear the foreign exchange risk (because the then-overvalued cedi was undergoing continuous
fluctuations); and (ii) the narrow definition of eligible enterprises. The interest rate charged
on a sub-loan was the one normally applicable to commercial bank loans permitted by the
BOG, i.e., 26% per annum in 1987. Sub-borrowers assumed the foreign exchange risk or
were allowed to shift the risk to the BOG at a fee determined by the BOG. This arrangement
had been made before the introduction of foreign exchange auctions, at a time when the cedi
was highly overvalued. As for the eligibility criteria, the original stipulation was that
sub-loans could be used only for the rehabilitation of existing industrial enterprises; new
enterprises were ineligible. The national credit ceiling agreed between the BOG and the IMF
was also a constraint.
5.5          IDA subsequently discussed and agreed with the Government an amendment
(dated October 17, 1987) to the legal documents' provisions for interest rate and foreign
exchange risk to give the sub-borrowers the option of accepting (a) foreign-exchange-
denominated subloans, to be repaid in cedis, at an interest rate equivalent to the IBRD floating
rate plus a spread of 5%, with the foreign exchange risk borne by the sub-borrowers or (b)
cedi-denominated subloans at the prevailing domestic interest rate applicable to such loans
according to BOG guidelines, with the foreign exchange risk borne by the BOG. Interest and
principal payments were calculated in dollars (as in the case of a normal dollar-denominated
loan) but actual payments by the sub-borrower were in cedis applying the exchange rate
prevailing on the due date. Under the second option, the sub-loans were cedi-denominated
and the principal fixed in cedis at the time of drawing down the loan proceeds. In order to
meet foreign exchange risks arising from this option, the BOG established a foreign exchange
risk guarantee fund using part of the proceeds of interest payments. In the interest of
reaching out to other high return investments that could help the sector, IDA also reached an
agreement with the Government to broaden the definition of eligible enterprises to include
new investments, especially in such important activities as non-traditional export production
which could be facilitated by the new foreign exchange and trade regimes.



- 8 -
5.6          The interest rate situation was still found unsatisfactory a year later, in 1988.
Participating banks were now charging sub-borrowers the prevailing interest rate, but this
meant in practice that the interest rate was fixed and remained in effect for the life of the
sub-loan (typically five years or more). Since interest rates were high in 1988 (26-30%),
many potential borrowers were being discouraged. IDA therefore recommended a variable
interest rate. This change was implemented, and under the resulting system, the BOG advised
participating banks that it expected the final interest rate to be set at 5 percentage points above
the rate charged on participating banks. The final interest rate was adjusted twice a year, and
was generally 5 percentage points above the treasury bill auction discount rate. Similarly, for
those who opted for foreign exchange risk, the applicable interest rate (i.e., the IBRD rate
plus 5 percentage points) could be adjusted twice a year depending on the fluctuations in the
IBRD rate. This arrangement proved satisfactory. Changes in this conditionality made it
possible for the balance of funds to be committed and disbursed (para. 6.2).
5.7          The institutional strengthening component moved overall at a satisfactory
pace. The Arthur D. Little Management Education Institute (ADLI), supported by BOG and
staff of the Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI), delivered basic,
mid-level and refresher courses in project analysis and financial restructuring that were
attended by about 200 people from BOG, MDPI, commercial banks, MIST, MFEP,
government agencies and industrial enterprises. All participants expressed full satisfaction
with the program. The reorganization of MIST did not proceed as planned, however.
Government delayed acting upon the proposals for MIST's restructuring pending the issuance
of a national policy on ministerial organization, and UNIDO was also slow in selecting
expatriate experts. In January 1988, when a workplan for MIST's new organizational
structure had been completed, a nationwide policy change occurred concerning the number of
Chief Directorships in any one Ministry, and the whole restructuring proposal was rendered
invalid. Funds allocated to the Ghana Standards Board (GSB) and Food Research Institute
(FRI) for vehicles, equipment and inputs were fully committed and disbursed, albeit with
some delay. The industrial sector relied heavily on the effectiveness of the GSB and FRI to
monitor and advise on the quality of manufactured products in order to improve production
techniques and increase consumer acceptance of products. The vehicles and equipment helped
improve the performance of GSB and FRI. Technical assistance to GIC was impeded by a
change in management at GIC.
5.8          Studi  component. To support the ISAC, a number of subsector and
enterprise studies were carried out by international and local consultants. An impact
assessment survey was carried out as planned by MIST, but analysis of the results by the
Institute for Statistical, Social and Economic Research (ISSER) has not been completed to
date. This is unfortunate, as the survey was to be a great help in monitoring the effects of
policy reforms on the industrial sector. The industrial census carried out by Ghana Statistical
Service (GSS) was delayed by late recruitment of the adviser. Phase I of the census, which
consisted of establishing a directory of industrial enterprises in the country (the last such
census had been done in 1962), including information on location, size, type, activity, etc.,
was completed. Phase II of the census, involving collection of more detailed information on
medium- and large-scale industrial enterprises, was incomplete at project closing; the data had
been collected, but its analysis was not completed.
5.9          Conditionality and Tranchine. The US$40 million allocated for the industrial
imports component was made available in two tranches and was expected to be fully disbursed



-9-
over a three-year period, i.e. by June 30, 1990. The first tranche of US$25 million was
available upon effectiveness, and the second tranche of US$15 million was to follow about 12
months later (April/May 1987). Disbursement of the second tranche was conditional on: (a)
agreement on the size and composition of the 1987 annual import program for industry; (b)
the Government approving a phased program of import liberalization satisfactory to the
Association; and (c) satisfactory implementation of agreed export promotion measures during
1986. Once the first tranche of SDR 22.5 million comprising the entire amount of the Africa
Facility Credit was fully disbursed, progress was reviewed and it was determined that the
Borrower had carried out the conditions of second tranche release in an expeditious manner
and had created a more favorable environment for existing and new exports and more efficient
import substitution. Condition (a) above had been overtaken by the introduction of foreign
exchange auctions. IDA was able to release the second tranche in February 1987, a few
months ahead of schedule.
5.10          Monitoring and Reporting. The BOG, as main implementing agency, was
responsible for monitoring the implementation of the ISAC and for furnishing quarterly
progress reports to IDA. This requirement was fulfilled in a satisfactory manner. MIST
submitted, as required, annual reports on the industrial sector's performance in terms of
certain key indicators such as output and employment expansion, capacity utilization rates,
and local value added, as well as half-yearly reports on the progress of (a) the annual import
program for industry and (b) the assistance provided to Ghana Standards Board and the Food
Research Institute. BOG performed its monitoring tasks satisfactorily until 1990, when some
staff working on ISAC were transferred to another unit (FUSMED) to work on the Small and
Medium Enterprise (SME) project, and the ISAC monitoring function began to suffer. DFD
eventually cleared up the backlog of overdue progress reports. The CBS submitted its
quarterly progress reports on the implementation of its work program covering industrial
census, industrial statistics, and foreign trade statistics.
6.    Results
6.1           The main result of the ISAC was to raise production of locally manufactured
goods in Ghana. This was achieved through the transfer of resources to the annual import
program for industry, thus helping to alleviate the main short-term constraint to increasing
industrial production. The annual import program helped the industrial sector achieve a
steady annual growth rate over 1985-88 (para 7.2), as opposed to the steady decline observed
since 1977, which had reduced real output by nearly half. In the absence of the ISAC,
increased funding for imported industrial inputs would not have been available. The industrial
sector as a whole has also become more efficient as a result of policy reforms associated with
the project. Whereas import restrictions used to contribute to the protection and price control
enjoyed by inefficient industries, the disappearance of these restrictions has led to the closing
of inefficient plants and increased efficiency in the remaining ones.
6.2           A total of 15 sub-loans were approved under the industrial rehabilitation
component, of which three were canceled on the advice of the BOG: one due to the lack of a
sponsoring bank (the bank that had agreed to sponsor it had exceeded its credit ceiling and
had serious arrears problems and the enterprise could not find another sponsor) and the others
due to delays in procurement. Of the twelve remaining enterprises (see Part In, section 3.8),
ten are private-owned, one is a joint state/private enterprise, and the other is a state-owned
enterprise. Supervision missions found that the sub-loan/rehabilitation component was having



- 10 -
a positive impact on the Ghanaian economy. Some of the enterprises were new, while others
that had ceased production several years before were rehabilitated and put back into operation.
Others that were operating at very low capacities appear now to be performing much better as
a result of the sub-loans. Output, product quality and profitability of the enterprises have
improved and additional jobs have been created in most cases.
6.3           The industrial subsectors represented by the sub-loan recipients included
food/beverages, metal products, plastics, paper and printing, and textiles (Part III, section
3.8). For reasons that are not known, no loan applications were received from enterprises in
the pharmaceutical subsector. The project was well-advertised in the news media all over
Ghana, but since most industries are concentrated in the Accra/Tema region, most sub-loan
applicants were located there. One sub-loan beneficiary is in the coastal city of Takoradi and
another in the centrally-located town of Kumasi.
6.4           Studies carried out under, or in association with, ISAC include: (a) a study of
export incentives and procedures, which provided the basis for the formulation of proposals
for reforming policies and procedures affecting exports; (b) a study to develop a phased
program for import liberalization; (c) a study of price and income effects of exchange
adjustments; (d) a study of indirect taxes, to provide the Government with the analytical basis
for simplification and rationalization of the indirect tax system; (e) preparation of investment
code guidelines; (f) selected subsector studies providing baseline data on such subsectors as
agro-industries, metals and machine shops, and building materials; and (g) enterprise studies
to prepare restructuring proposals for selected public industrial enterprises. The results of the
studies were used to promote non-traditional exports liberalize imports and reform exchange
rate policy.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.1           There is no indication that the Government of Ghana will reverse its position
on any of the policy measures that have had a positive impact on the country's economy. The
ISAC influenced the product mix available on the domestic market in favor of items for mass
consumption (rather than imported luxury goods) through the allocation of foreign exchange
to their producers. It also helped increase capacity utilization in these industries from 20-30
percent to the target of 40-50 percent, thereby reducing unit costs, reinforcing downward
price pressures and benefitting employment. The policy reforms supported by the ISAC
(exchange rate policy reform, price liberalization, import liberalization and export promotion)
helped achieve, over a medium term, restructuring of the industrial capacity in Ghana to
increase its efficiency. The structure of industrial production should continue to improve as a
result of the more uniform pattern of protection achieved through exchange rate adjustment,
liberal import of competing goods under the system of special unnumbered import licenses
(SULs), and the phasing out of quantitative restrictions implicit in the import licensing
system. The ISAC fostered activities with relatively high value-added at world prices, greater
use of domestic materials, and the best prospects for increasing export revenues. Some of the
institutional strengthening activities (training, equipment, vehicles) under the ISAC facilitated
the adjustment process and helped rebuild institutional capacities that had deteriorated
significantly. Staff training activities enabled the financial institutions to improve the quality
of work and services performed and thereby contribute more effectively to economic growth.



- 11 -
7.2          Ghana is well into its eighth year of the ERP. In this period, the economy
has maintained an average growth rate of over 5 percent a year, despite a setback in 1990 due
mainly to drought. The industrial sector has grown at a moderate, but steady, pace, from a
low of -3.4% during the 1973-80 period, to 3.3% during 1980-90, 4.1 % in 1989 and 4.2% in
1990. Within the four-year period FY92-95, the IDA lending program envisages the phasing
out of adjustment lending to Ghana. Adjustment lending has now shifted from broad-based to
sector adjustment operations, focussing on the financial and agricultural sectors. These
operations have further deepened policy and institutional reforms designed to transform
finance and agriculture into competitive sectors with a major role for the private sector. The
intention is to complement them with sector investment lending, with a major focus on sector
policy and institution-building. At both the sector-wide and project-specific investment levels,
there is now increased attention to longer term issues, including human resource development,
population and environment, as well as on ways to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
delivery of economic infrastructure. ISAC has been succeeded by other structural adjustment
operations, including a recent Second Financial Sector Adjustment Project (FINSAC II) and
an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Project.
8.    IDA's Performance
8.1          IDA played an important role in the design and implementation of the
industrial sector reforms undertaken by the Government under ISAC. Preparation of the
ISAC adjustment program began with IDA's extensive economic and sector work. Detailed
design of the components of the program emerged from discussions of several IDA studies
with representatives from key ministries and the Bank of Ghana. Section 3.6 in Part m
presents staff inputs. A total of 228.8 weeks of staff and consultant time were spent on the
project, of which 197.9 were for supervision activities. Field supervision accounted for 53
staffweeks. Tle project was supervised intensively, with missions taking place at appropriate
intervals and preparing their reports in a timely manner (Part HI, section 3.5). Enterprises
that had received subloans were regularly visited and assessed. The frequent supervision
allowed IDA to react promptly and appropriately to requests from the Borrower to modify
Project and Loan Agreements (paras 5.1, 5.3, 5.5).
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1          The Government ministries and agencies performed satisfactorily for the most
part. Some concern was expressed by an early supervision mission that the functions of the
various people at BOG involved with the records and documents relating to the ISAC credit
were not clearly defined, that there were not sufficient reconciiations being done and that
documents were not maintained in a manner that would facilitate the quick extraction of
information. One person was assigned to coordinate this task to ensure coherence, and that
person performed his function satisfactorily. The BOG set up an ISAC Unit within the DFD
to manage the Project, and its staff performed well. However, in 1990 some of them were
transferred to the Fund for Small and Medium Enterprise Development (FUSMED) Unit
within the same department to manage the SME Project. The move weakened the ISAC Unit,
resulting in late submissions of quarterly progress reports to IDA and some laxness in
monitoring of project implementation. There were also delays in claiming reimbursements
under the Credit from IDA.



- 12 -
9.2          BOG complied with the Project Covenants, relending the proceeds of the
Credit under Part B of the Project (financing of eligible rehabilitation and new investment
proposals) to participating banks which in turn made sub-loans to eligible enterprises. The
sub-loans were made in accordance with the agreed eligibility criteria. As required, BOG
entered into a participating bank loan agreement with each of the participating banks. Each
agreement included the terms and conditions agreed to between BOG and IDA.
9.3          BOG remained in default for a long period on the yearly submission of
audited reports on Project Financial Statements, Special Account and Statements of
Expenditure, at one point falling three years behind schedule. This situation was cleared up
by the time of closing in December 1991. Other financial covenants were complied with:
e.g., the BOG kept various records as required. The Government requested, and received, a
second extension of the closing date to enable the implementing agencies to complete the work
funded under the Project and BOG to submit withdrawal applications to IDA.
9.4          Under the project, MIST was to use a database to assess the impact of policy
reforms on the manufacturing sector. This task was not carried out to MIST's satisfaction
and was eventually dropped partly because a similar effort was jointly carried out by IDA and
the government resulting in the issuance of the report, 'Toward a Dynamic Investment
Response". The Industrial Research Institute (IRI) provided MIST, as planned, with a draft
report on both the study conducted to identify production and technology constraints for the
local production of agro-industrial implements and the study to classify the raw material base
for local production of ceramic glaze. The project document for the continuation of the
reorganization of MIST was completed and submitted to MFEP, but MIST had not received
any feedback as of the closing date of the project. The Ghana Statistical Service (GSS,
formerly Inown as the Central Bureau of Statistics) received funds under the Project to carry
out an industrial census, to compile industrial statistics in a timely manner, and to implement
monthly processing of foreign trade statistics. These objectives were only partially met, and
progress in the area of foreign trade statistics was disappointing. Data collection and
processing have progressed well but the backlog in actually publishing the data persists.
10.   Consulting Services
10.1         Some difficulties were experienced in recruiting acceptable consultants and
one study had to be revised. The vast majority of studies planned under the project were
submitted by the consultants by the extended closing date, which suggests overall a
satisfactory level of performance from consultants under the project. The training program
carried out at the BOG by ADLI (para. 5.7) was particularly successful and well-reviewed by
participants.
11.   Documentation and Data
11.1         Project files were reasonably complete, and no significant difficulty was
experienced in obtaining information about IDA activities under the project. Notably missing
in the files were: specific details of the financial condition of the various recipients of
subloans under the rehabilitation component of the project (presumably available at the Bank
of Ghana) and IDA's views/comments on some of the studies. In preparing this PCR,
considerable reliance was placed on supervision reports, several of which were well prepared
and comprehensive, and on discussion with a couple of members of the project team.



- 13 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ISAC)
(CREDIT 1672-GH)
PART H PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Introduction
This Part n of the Project Completion Report (PCR) analyses key issues related to the
ISAC project and appraises its implementation from the standpoint or perspective of the
Borrower. It reviews the project from its design and preparation stage through its implementation
covering, monitoring and supervision. The Report was jointly prepared by the Bank of Ghana
and the Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology (MIST).
2.    Project Preparation. Design and Implementation
The ISAC Project comprised four major components, namely:
a.    Industrial Imports
b.    Industrial Rehabilitation
c.    Institutional Strengthening, and
d.    Studies.
2.1    General Observations - Coordination
It seems that in designing the project no proper account was taken of the need for a
mechanism to ensure effective coordination of the various components. Thus, there was no
provision in the Credit Agreement for putting in place an overall committee, specifically an
Inter-Ministerial Committee, consisting of the relevant ministries and organizations to
facilitate coordination as has been done under the SME project, except in the case of the
Rehabilitation component. Although the Bank of Ghana was charged with the responsibility
of coordination, all indications point to the fact that this task was too onerous for a single
institution to handle effectively. The result was undue delays in the implementation of some
of the components, particularly the institutional strengthening and studies components, which
necessitated requests for two extensions of the validity of the project. However, there is no
doubt that some of the beneficiary institutions also contributed to delays by failing to process
documentation quickly for financing.
2.2   Industrial Imports Component ($40 million)
The determination of the size of the industrial imports component may be said to have
been influenced by the industrial import program for 1986 within the framework of the Import
Licensing System. As is well known, the first tranche released was allocated administratively,
whilst the second tranche was disbursed under the auction system, and this latter system of
allocation could not possibly have benefitted only firms operating in the industrial sector.
This is because of the difficulty in drawing a fine distinction, in some cases, between
industrial raw materials and finished goods or consumer items. Therefore, the impression
created that the second tranche was exclusively used by industries because it was limited to
industrial raw materials does appear to be erroneous. Furthermore, statistics show that a



- 14 -
large amount went to less productive sectors such as the breweries simply because they could
raise the cedi equivalent.
Another problem that faced this component was the considerable time-lag between
winning at the auction and the actual release of the equivalent arnount in foreign exchange to
the winning company's bankers for Letters of Credit to be established. This led to delays in
procuring raw materials badly needed to keep the wheels of industries moving. There were
also delays in the submission of the necessary import documentation by the banks to the
Foreign Operations Department of the Bank of Ghana for reconciliation to be made. This
indirectly led to delays in submitting relevant documents to IDA for reimbursement. The
upshot of all this was the establishment of a Unit initially in the Development Finance
Department, captioned 'The Reimbursement and Reconciliation Unit" to facilitate
disbursement.
2.3    The Industrial Rehabilitation Component
The World Bank during the project preparation stage had a fair knowledge of the total
rehabilitation requirements of the industrial sector which in 1986 had been estimated by the
various Missions of the Bank and MIST officials to be US$262.2 million. The US$ 10
million earmarked for the rehabilitation component was really on the lower side and therefore
inadequate.
This component was implemented under the Apex Lending Arrangement by the
Development Finance Department of Bank of Ghana with the assistance of an Interministerial
Committee comprising representatives from MIST, Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning and the Association of Ghana Industries. The Committee played a
vital role, as it did help the DFD in evaluating the projects from the participating financial
institutions and ensuring that the eligibility criteria were complied with.
In spite of the good work of this Committee, it was, however, inactive in the
beginning through no fault of its own, but because of the way the rehabilitation component
was packaged regarding the areas of risk, interest rate and its limitation to existing
enterprises.
The initial conditions for sub-loans under this component, inter alia, were as follows:
(a)    An enterprise benefitting from the rehabilitation component shall assume the foreign
exchange risk on sub-loan, provided that such an enterprise may enter into an
agreement with the Bank of Ghana to insure itself against such risk by payment of a
fee to be determined by the Bank of Ghana.
(b)    The interest rate charged by a participating bank on a sub-loan shall be the interest
rate normally applicable to such loans as permitted by the Bank of Ghana (about 26%
at the time of credit effectiveness).
Structuring the component this way really made it expensive and unattractive. It was
only proper that these restrictive conditions had to be changed to speed up utilization of the
facility.



- 15 -
2.4    The State of the Financial Institutions
Part of the delays encountered with the rehabilitation component could be attributed to
the fact that the implementation of the ISAC Project took place at a time that the banks had
not been restructured or recapitalized and were operating within credit ceilings. One other
effect of this state of the banks was that some of the rehabilitated companies could not obtain
from the banks the much-needed working capital for their rehabilitated capacities. This would
seem to suggest that the credit delivery component should have been structured in such a way
as to cater for both working capital and term loans through the apex lending arrangements.
The problems encountered from the financial institutions also cast some doubt as to whether
due cognisance was taken of the state of the banks during the project preparation and design
stage.
2.5    Monitoring/Supervision
If a Secretariat and a Policy Committee had been established under the ISAC Project
to deal with emerging problems, especially those with policy implications, the initial
problems and delays encountered by the project would have been minimized.
2.5.2 World Bank Monitoring/SuRervision
The supervision of the project during implementation was quite impressive. The visits
of the Missions which intensively supervised the project were well spaced and timely. The
various reports were prepared on schedule and were also found to be informative and
beneficial. On a number of occasions the Missions, accompanied by some officers of the
Development Finance Department, paid visits to some of the companies to see the progress of
the projects financed under the ISAC facility. However, although supervision and monitoring
of the project by the World Bank were impressive, there were a few cases of delays by the
Bank in reacting or granting approvals to some recommendations made to the Bank such as
the two studies - "The Kind and Level of Protection Required by Local Industries, and the
Regional Resource Identification".
3.     Project Achievement
Without question, the implementation of the project was on the whole satisfactory. The
availability of foreign exchange for industrial imports enabled a number of firms to import inputs
and capital goods, which led to an increase in capacity utilization and manufacturing output,
despite the fact that there was some spill-over into other less productive sectors. With regard to
the rehabilitation component, even though it is too early to gauge its full impact, its achievement
so far in terms of performance of the rehabilitated firms is quite remarkable. However, the most
significant achievement relates to the institutional strengthening component, particularly the
training program conducted by Arthur D. Little in conjunction with the Bank of Ghana.
This program has enabled the development finance units of the various financial
institutions and some Ministries to improve the quality of their work, including the areas of
project appraisal and financial analysis. That there is the need for more financial assistance of
this kind in support of the on-going Economic Recovery Program cannot be overemphasized.
27th April 1992



- 16 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1672-GH)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
3.1              Status of Covenants
Cttit AU: :: N"                                                                              i;t 
Sction 3.01                       Govt. to oder into subsidiary financing and        Completed.
admintrtion agreement with Bank of Ghunm
(BOG).
Sctiorn 3.01                      Govt. to prpre an anuual inport program            Superseded by impost
each year for its industrial sector.               lbon .izatioo.
Setion 3.04                       Prior to carying out each study under the          Compled with.
pmoject, Govt. iu to furnish to IDA for rview
and oomment the TORs, timetable nd budget;
oonsut wl IDA on findings and
-:mecom sdations.
Sedio  3.05                       Govt.L to exchange views wI IDA on plans for       Done, but with delay
;orp:nizin.  depu. and agencies receiving TA       in implemttion.
: i:: 0 D   f:::    : :  X   f  the proec
ecotion 3.05                      GovL t. t    uwre that Catral Bureat of             Comp jlelted.
S3i, no-S ;-w GSS, complete  an industrial
ec: us by 12131/87 ot a revised date.
Seceion 4.01                      Have project Acount and SpoecialAot for            Completed slier
ach fil ear audited.                               submtntial delays and
vwarnung about
overdue audits.
section 4.01                      Maintiin spate records and accounts                Done.
reflcting expenditues made on the basis of
SOEs.
Schedu-le 4-                      Conditiona of Second Trmnche Releas
(1)-                   Ap v an 0 0indui6strialmport p am                  Bame iti  W  Boca= irreva  due
ee        loj::. -t IDA for 1987                     t          fratio:.
(2)                Appmove~;4   a phase prga   f import                  ne
lbe- :lzzaaea ptablb eto IDA.
(3)   :                      p-::i-: t ayon promotion m  asur   n1956        ))one.
accptbletoIDA.



a                              So
Cob1f  I                  !        Ii



- 18 -
3.2    Related IDA Credits
Year of
Loop ride                    Purps                          Approval       Status
NIB I S1OM                   Foreign exchange for           1975          Completed
industrial, agro-industrial
and ounim projects.
NMB 1 (Cr.901-GH)            Foreip exchang for
S19M                         term loa  and capital          1980          Copld
inveasments.
Reconstactin Import          Emergency imports for          1983          Completed
(IC I) (Cr. 1393-            the agricultural and
GH)$40M                      tansport sectors.
Export Rehabilitati          Partial emergncy               1984          Completed
(Cr. 1435-CH)$40M            asstance to road
tasport and port
subswctDr.
Export Rehabilitati          Strengthning institutional    1984           Completed
(Cr. F009-(H)535.9M          capacities of key
organizations in export
sector.
Export Reabitin             Sam  as above.                 1984          Completed
T.A. (Cr. 1436-
GH)S17.IM
Second Recnstuction          Import requirements for       1985           Completed
imports Crt (IC II)          agriculture, transport,
(Cm. 1573-GH and             mining and  anufacturing
A003.GH$60M                  setos.
Sructural Adjustmet          Trade liberlization,          1987           Complet4d
Credit (SAC 1) (Crm          cocoa sctor, public
1777, A025-0, A025-1)        expenditure, reform of
$125.8M.                     SOEs, public sector
mnagement.
Financial Sector             To support ongoing            1988           Will closo June
Adjustmt Credit              reform s in finanial                         30, 1992.
(FINSAC) (Cr. 1911-          system.
GH)S lOOM
SAC 11 (Crs. 2005-GH,        Improved ictives for          1989           Cmpleted.
2005-1-GH) $S89.2M.          svings and investments,
strengthening of balance
of payments.



- 19 -
3.3   Project Timetable
ITEM                           ESTIMATED DATE    ACTUAL DATE
Identification                  1984-85               1984-85
Project Brief                  July 1985             July 1985
Preappraisal/Appraisal         June'85/Aug' 85 D     June'85/Aug'85
Post Appraisal                 December 1985          December 1985
Credit Negotiations            February 3, 1986       February 3, 1986
Board Approval                 March 27, 1986         March 27, 1986
Credit Signature               April 17, 1986        April 17, 1986
Credit Effectiveness           June 6, 1986          June 6, 1986
Credit Closing                 Dec. 31 1990           December 31, 1991
Project Completion             Dec. 31, 1990          December 31, 1991
Last Disbursement                                    December 11, 1991
3.4   Loan Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ES71MATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
-Cumulative
Estimated         Revised         Actual        Actual as
Fiscal Year       Amount            Amount       -  Amount        % of Estimate
1986                -0-              -0-            9.35           -0-
1987              10.00            10.00           28.19        282.00
1988              26.00           26.00            43.05        166.00
1989              28.50           42.00            52.85        185.44
1990              28.50           44.40            57.71        202.49
1991                40               -0-           60.24           -0-
1992                -0-              -0-           60.96           4-



- 20 -
3.5     Mission Data
Mission         Date           Duration (weeks)   No. of Persons   Staffweeks     Date of Rpt.
Pre-Appmisal    06/10-22V85        2.5               5            12.5            06/28/85
Appmisal        08/12-09/04/85     4.0               6            24.0            09/10/85
Post-Apprmial   12109-13/85        1.0               1             1.0            12/20/85
Spn 1           07/14-25/86        2.0               2             4.0            08/20/86
Spn 2           10/20-11/07/86     2.0               1             2.0            12102V86
Spn 3           01/21-25/87        1.0               1             1.0            02/10/87
Spn 4           01/26-02120/87     3.0               1             3.0            03/04/87
Spn 5           03/20-25/87        1.0               1             1.0            05/29/87
Spn 6           06/30-07/08/87     1.5               1             1.5            07/14/87
Spn 7           10/19-11/06187     3.0               1             3.0            11/23/87
Spn 8           03/14-18/88        1.0               1             1.0            04n788
Spn 9           11/18-25/88        1.5               1             1.5            12112188
Spn 10          0203-05/90        0.5               1             0.5            03/02190
Spn 11          05/15-06/01/90     2.0               2             4.0            07/13/90
Spn 12          10/31-11/16/90     2.5               2             5.0            12/21/90
Spn 13          05/19-29/91        1.5               1             1.5            06/28/91
3.6 Staff Jnput
EXY    fY8       FY87   E8         Y892   EY9   EY91  EY92
Prep.           30.9   35.7
Cofin.                   1.8
Appris.                 44.1
Neg.                    10.6
Board                    3.4
Spn.                   7.4      322 _4            13 S     17.4   7.4    _ 4
TOTAL           39  103.0               l         La U5      .4  7Z4    04
3.7 Proiect Cost (to be suvolied by Borrower)
Aporaisal Estimate                   Actual
Local       Foreign         Total           Total
Cawtcros                          Costs         Costs          Costs           costs
(USS million)                    (USS nilmon)
(A)      Indurial Imports                  0.0             40.0         40.0            45.9
(b)      Industrial Rehabiliation           0.0            10.0         10.0             9.8
(c)      Inst. Strengthening                0.7             4.1          4.8             5.2
(d)      Studies                             °              _O           LO               J
0.7            55.1         55.8            61.4



- 21 -
3.8         Recipients of Subloans Under the Prolects
Sublma Ammum
Disburwd
Ely                                                        Subaector              Purpow|
Accra Brewcy Ad.                                    FoodI/Beveae             RebabUitatio                         639.7
Waane Sted LAd.                                     Metlal                   New                                 1,507.1
Saou  Akim Miufag LAd.                              Mmufeiag                 RchabWioio                            541.2
Podym   Limbed                                      Plagtea                  New                                   549.3
GOcdd  *p   Flur Mm LAd.                            Mmuaebrug                New                                   627.3
Mgahwu  lId.                                        metals                   Rdhzbilaii                            294.4
Al Heblm  a Marfo Campmy LAd.                       Pae A PeIn3f             Expsi-                                4S9.6
Trapieal Melc C        _.gnaii  Co. LAd.            Mtals                    ReabiLtiom                           234.8
Tom Texiie LAd.                                     Textil                   Rebabilti                             764.0
Aslim   hatsiets LAd.                               Food/Bcerge              Rebabjlliim                            91.2
EAjad-om Prs A Midnfwar                             Pape & Pri_teg           Rebabilhiwi                           197.5
ONTC BDtdkW  Dvivm                                  M      tuacuring         Rebabiiatom                         1,239.0



