Dom_nt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCFLF   USE ONLY
- /3 ¢7s'
Report No. P-4217-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 25.7 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY
CREDIT OF SDR 22.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
March 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Calendar 1984       December 1985        January 1986
US $ 1            ¢ 35.9                    60             ¢ 90
Cedi (¢) 1        US $ 0.028            US $ 0.017        Us $ 0.011
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOG       -  Bank of Ghana
CBS       -  Central Bureau of Statistics
DFD       -  Development Finance Department, Bank of Ghana
ERP       -  Economic Recovery Program
FRI       -  Food Research Institute
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GSB       -  Ghana Standards Board
ISAC      -  Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
MFEP      - Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MIST      - Ministry of Industries, Science, and Technology
PB        -  Participating Bank
PIB       -  Prices and Incomes Board
RIC       -  Reconstruction Import Credit
RP        -  Rehabilitation Investment Project
SIP       -  Government Statement of Industrial Policy
SUL       -  Special Unnumbered Import Licenses
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Ghana
Executing Agencies:  Bank of Ghana (BOG) and Ministry of Industries,
Science and Technology (MIST)
Credit Amount:       IDA:               SDR 25.7 m (US$28.5 m equivalent)
African Facility:  SDR 22.5 m (US$25.0 m equivalent)
Total:             SDR 48.2 m (US$53.5 m equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA and African Facility terms
Description and      The proposed Credit would support the first phase
Allocation of        (1986-88) of the Government's medium-term adjustment
Credit:              program which includes important policy reforms
designed to streamline Ghana's industrial capacity.
It would provide (i) US$40 million equivalent to
finance imports of industrial inputs and spare parts
to increase production of locally manufactured goods,
(ii) US$10 million equivalent to finance equipment for
the rehabilitation of economically viable industrial
enterprises, and (iii) US$3.5 million equivalent to
finance technical assistance, training, and studies.
Benefits and Risks:  The main benefits of the proposed Credit are:
'i) improved supply position of the economy through
increased production of locally manufactured goods;
(ii) increased efficiency in the industrial sector as
a result of policy changes which the Credit supports;
(iii) strengthening of key institutions which serve
the industrial sector; and (iv) a rapid increase in
industrial capacity utilization and production which
would add momentum and credibility to the Government's
policy reforms and facilitate further reforms. The
main risks associated with the Credit are possible
internal resistance to the timely implementation of
critical policy reforms and potential difficulties for
importers in arranging the necessary local financing
to pay for the imports. These risks are limited by
the Government's determination to go ahead with the
policy reforms and establishment of a scheme to
provide short-term funds to producers.
This document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwie be discased without World Bank authorizaton.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursements:       IDA Fiscal           87        88       89       90
(US $ million)
Anrial               10       16       16      11.5
Cumulative          10        26       42      53.5
The industrial import component would be disbursed in two tranches (of
US$25 million and US$15 million). The second tranche would be released
following satisfactory implementation of the 1986 program of policy
actions.
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not applicable
Appraisal Report:    None



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
PROPOSED CREDITS TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 25.7 million (US$28.5 million
equivalent) and an African Facility Credit for the equivalent of SDR 22.5
million (US$ 25.0 million equivalent) to tne Republic of Ghana on standard
IDA and African Facility terms to help finance an Industrial Sector Adjust-
ment Credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana:  Towards Structural Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985. A
summary of the economic situation is presented in this section. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared with
most other West African nations. However, a declining gross national
income bas combined with high population growth (estimated at about 3
percent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per capita income.
The average per capita income in 1984 is estimated at US$350, which repre-
sents a substantial decline over what it was a decade ago. The rate of
unemployment is quite high and underemployment is widespread. Almost half
the population of about 12 million is now estimated to live in absolute
poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once the best in Africa,
are now no better than those of other Sub-Sahara African countries with
comparable per capita incomes. Modern health services are available to
only about a third of the people, and only 47 percent have access to safe
water. Although the education system is well established and primary
schooling has been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and 70 percent
of adult women have had no formal education.
Basic Structural Characteristics
4.        Ghana is comparatively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold,
but also diamonds, bauxite, manganese, and offshore oil. There is further
potential for hydro power generation. Ghana has a relatively good supply
11  This Part is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Health and Education Rehabilitation Project which was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 23, 1986.



of land suitable for growing tree crops, most importantly cocoa, but also
oil palm, rubber, and coconut; cereals and starchy staples; and possesses
considerable fishing and forestry resources.
5.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for
about half of GDP. Approximately 11 percent of the land area is cultivat-
ed. Previously, cocoa had covered about half of the cultivated land, but
acreage has declined greatly in recent years. Nearly 70 percent of the
population derive an income from agriculture or related activities. The
staple foods are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain but,
except for cassava, yields have stagnated in recent years. Per capita food
production in 1983 was only 61 percent of that in 1975. Prolonged droughts
in 1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services, poor transport facili-
ties, and lack of fertilizers and other inputs contributed to the decline.
In recent years, Ghana has had to import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal
consumption (mainly rice and maize).
6.        Ghana's economy is highly dependent on primary products for
exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer)
contributes about two-thirds of total export earnings, although production
has been declining. Mining, primarily gold, is Ghana's second largest
foreign exchange earner, contributing 20 percent of the total, although
production has fallen over the past two decades. Timber is also an impor-
tant export.  Efforts to diversify the export base have not made much
headway.
7.        Industrial production and services currently account for 9
percent and 40 percent of GDP, respectively. Manufacturing--including
textiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer goods-contributed
5 percent of GDP in 1984 down from 11 percent in 1970 and provided full- or
part-time employment to just over one-tenth of the labor force. Manufac-
turing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported inputs.
8.        Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as fuel for
transport. Recently some oil deposits have been discovered and commercial
exploitation has commenced. Production of crude was about 600 barrels per
day in 1984, satisfying only a minor share of the country's requirements,
but declined to negligible levels in 1985. Hydropower generates most of
Ghana's electricity, some of which is exported to neighboring countries.
It was drastically affected by the drought during 1983-84, but production
is now returning to more normal levels.
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
9.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was poorly managed.  Large
budget deficits, necessitated partly to support a sprawling, inefficient
public sector, led to a marked acceleration in domestic inflation. Given
the reluctance to move the exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became
grossly overvalued, shifting relative incentives away from exports into
import trade, and more specifically from cocoa, Ghana's main export, into



subsistence food production. The resulting deterioration in export perfor-
mance, combined with a growing disenchantment on the part of aid donors
with Ghana's performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis that
pushed successive Governments into increasingly restrictive import regimes.
What was once an economy with ample imports became one starved of the main
fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to declining exports
and imports, and the related drop in economic activity forced severe
cutbacks in Government operations and maintenance and capital expenditures.
There was a marked deterioration in what was once fairly well developed
economic and social infrastructure. This, in turn, further reduced the
country's productive capacity.
10.       A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem by eroding the incentives to produce and save, dimin-
ishing the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and creating a vast parallel black market with its
related corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining real wages,
political instability and reduced economic opportunities led talented and
skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving it of scarce managerial,
administrative and technical resources.
;1.       To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
1980s to three otlher problems. First, a prolonged and severe drought
created the worst food shortages since Independence. Second, the external
terms of trade sharply deteriorated following the increase in petroleum
prices, and a softening in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa and
gold). Third, the sudden return of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria
severely strained the food and employment situation. The cumulative effect
of the downward economic spiral and these most recent "shocks" to the
system can be seen in the trends in key economic indicators between 1970
and 1982: per capital real income declined by 30 percent; import volumes
fell by a third; real export earnings fell 52 percent; domestic savings and
investment declined from 12 and 14 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1970 to
almost insignificant levels; inflation ran at 44 percent per annum over the
period.
A Program of Reforms
12.       The Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) came to power
under the leadership of Flight Lieutenant Rawlings on December 31, 1981.
An Economic Recovery Pzogram was developed by the Government in close
coordination with the IMF and the World Bank. The program has been sup-
ported by two IMF Standby Arrangements, totaling SDR 419 million, the
latter extending through December 1985; SDR 179 million in purchases from
the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF) on account of both a shortfall in
merchandise exports and an excess in the cost of cereal imports; and two
IDA Export Rehabilitation and two Import Reconstruction Credits, in all
totaling some SDR 187 million. Policy measures were aimed at a realignment
of relative prices in favor of production (particularly cocoa, timber, and
minerals), an improvement in the Government's financial position, and the
encouragement of private investment. The most important measure taken was



the movement towards a more realistic exchange rate. The cedi depreciated
from ¢2.75 - US$1.00 in April 1983 to 060 - US$1.00 by October 1985. In
January, 1986 the Government made significant progress towards reaching an
equilibrium exchange rate by moving to 090 - US$1.00. Administered prices
have been adjusted to reduce the distortions arising from the overvalued
exchange rate, the most critical being a near doubling of the cocoa
producer price announced in May 1985. Petroleum prices have been raised
steadily in line with changes in the exchange rate. In addition, price
controls are being dismantled.  Only 8 items are now subject to controls
administered by the Prices and Incomes Board compared to 23 in April 1983.
In addition the prices of beer and cigarettes are determined in conjunction
with the Government budget because of revenue implications. Interest rates
have been adjusted in stages to the point that they are now positive in
real terms. The rate on 12-month time deposits has doubled since October
1983 to the present level of 18 percent. The maximum lending rate is now
23 percent, up nine percentage points since October 1983. In the area of
fiscal policy, the Government's efforts have concentrated on eliminating
subsidies; resource mobilization through improved tax collection and
selective increases in consumption taxes and charges; and more adequate
provision for maintenance and capital expenditures. In addition public
sector salaries and wages, and statutory minimum wages have been raised to
offset partially the drastic erosion in real income.  Even after the
adjustments, real wages in the public sector are less than half their 1978
level.
13.       Following the announcement of this program, the Bank, in consul-
tation with the Government, decided to reactivate the Ghana Consultative
Group which had lain dormant for 13 years.  There has been a good response
to this initiative. The Group met in Paris, first in November 1983, and
then again in December 1984 and November 1985, and has broadly supported
the Government's program. Given the new aid commitments of about US$478
million that materialized following the 1984 meeting and the existing
pipeline, disbursements during 1985 are estimated to be about US$300
million, helping to finance the increase in imports, thereby stimulating
domestic production and exports.
Response of the Economy
14.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms was
temporarily crippled by the severe drought in 1983 and a lag in aid in-
flows. Nevertheless, the Government continued and even broadened the
reform program. After a real decline in output in 1983, economic perfor-
mance sharply improved on several counts in 1984, benefitting to a large
degree from the return to normal rainfall, but also from better policies.
The economy grew by nearly 8 percent. Agriculture led growth because of a
sharp expansion in food crops (output more than doubled for several crops),
while cocoa production rose by only 8 percent from the historical low of
the previous crop year. Wholesale and retail trade, and manufacturing
output increased in line with overall growth, reflecting higher import
levels and the restoration of power supplies. Preliminary estimates for
1985 indicate a growth in GDP of about 5 percent, spurred primarily by



- 5 -
higher output in forestry, mining, and manufacturing. Given the higher
base, growth in agriculture is expected to be less, but cocoa output is
likely to rise to 200,000 tons in the 1985/86 season, an increase of 16
percent over 1984/85.
The Budget
15.       The Government's fiscal position improved markedly in 1984.
Revenues as a share of GDP rose from 5 percent in 1983 to 8 percent in
1984. The gain primarily reflected the impact of the depreciation of the
exchange rate on the tax base and on the profits of export sectors.
Although a lower than expected level of imports caused a shortfall in
revenue in several categories, this was more than made up by higher bank
profits (reflecting the deregulation of interest rates), major gains in
income tax-collection, and a sharp increase in non-tax revenue. Recurrent
expenditures rose modestly from 7 percent of GDP in 1983 to 8 percent in
1984. Development expenditures and net lending increased to 1.7Z of GDP,
somewhat less than planned. As a result of these trends the overall budget
deficit narrowed to 1.7 percent of GDP and reliance on bank financing was
halved to only 0.6 percent of GDP. Although the overall budget deficit is
expected to increase to 2.3 percent of GDP in 1985, primarily because of a
much needed expansion in development expenditures, it is expected that
nearly two-thirds of it will be covered by foreign financing, enabling
domestic bank financing to be contained below the 1984 level.
Money and Credit
16.       The massive exchange rate depreciation since April 1983, together
with the credit ceilings which are part of the Government's program under
the IMF Standby Arrangement, resulted in a severe liquidity squeeze in the
banking system during 1984. While the demand for cedi credit to finance
imports expanded sharply, broad money (M2) grew at about the same rate in
1984 as in 1983 (slightly under 40 percent). Domestic credit rose by 32
percent in 1984. compared to 41 percent in 1983. The slowdown primarily
reflected lower growth in net credit to the Government. Although private
sector credit more than doubled (from a very low base) in 1984, the
increase was inadequate relative to the needs.
Prices
17.       Higher food supplies and the resulting sharp drop in prices was a
major reason for the deceleration in inflation in 1984, from an annual
average increase of 123 percent in 1983 to 40 percent in 1984. This trend
continued during the first half of 1985. The June 1985 point to point rate
was only 7 percent, despite an exchange rate depreciation of about 50
percent in this period. This confirms that prices already were reflecting
scarcity values and the tightness of current fiscal and monetary policies.



-6-
Balance of Payments
18.       The current amount of the balance of payments showed a deficit of
2.7 percent of GDP in 1984, close to the 1983 level. This outcome was
considerably lower than had been expected, almost entirely due to a large
import shortfall because of the continued tight foreign exchange situation
during the first half of the year. Export earnings rose by about 30
percent, reflecting higher world prices for cocoa and an increase in
electricity sales. On the capital account, in spite of some initial
delays, aid disbursements rose sharply; net aid increased from 0.9 percent
of GDP in 1983 to 3.4 percent in 1984. Allowing for other official and
private capital movements, the overall deficit in 1984 amounted to US$121
million. This was financed by net IMF purchases of US$214 million. The
balance of Fund resources was used to reduce arrears and to build up
foreign exchange reserves. In 1985 both export& and imports are expected
to recover further and the current account deficit is projected to widen to
5.5 percent of GDP. Higher capital inflows are forecast, enabling the
overall deficit to decline from the 1984 level. Expected IMF repurchases
would be sufficient to cover the deficit and to clear more paymenlt arrears.
Development Program
19.       In addition to achieving an appropriate incentive framework,
public expenditure policy is an equally important component of the Govern-
ment's development strategy. The neglected state of Ghana's economic and
social infrastructure has become a critical bottleneck to the reform
program's efforts to generate a strong supply response. Recognizing this
weakness, the Government's Economic Recovery Program for 1984-86 initiated
rehabilitation programs in key sectors-cocoa, timber, gold mining, and
transport infrastructure. At the same time, the Government has begun to
prepare a three-year rolling development program, beginning in 1986, based
on a review of public expenditures conducted jointly with the Bank in the
spring of 1985. The highest priorities in the area of recurrent expendi-
tures are to restore the viability and efficiency of public administration
and to expand signific.ntly support to health and education.  In addition,
adequate allocations ne-td to be provided for operations and maintenance.
To meet these needs, the annual average recurrent expenditures during
1986-88 would have to be about 20 percent higher in real terms than the
levels budgeted in 1985. The initial work on the capital side indicates
the substantial rehabilitation needs of the strategic economic sectors--
agriculture, minin-, and economic infrastructure. Consequently, there is a
large number of projects with high returns on incremental investments. The
only significant area where new investments have been identified is oil
exploration, which would be financed primarily by foreign investors.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1984 amounted to US$1.1 billion, about 20 percent of
GDP. Bilateral creditors account for slightly less than half of the total,
multilateral sources for about 40 percent (Bank loans and IDA credits



comprise 28 percent of total debt), and suppliers credits for only 10
percent. Despite the predominance of soft loans, Ghana's debt service
burden in the coming years ir likely to be very heavy, for several reasons:
first, amortization of previously rescheduled debt began in 1983; second,
there is a relatively large amount of short-term debt, including US$230
million of payment arrears at end-1984 which are to be cleared by 1988; and
third, the reported debt excludes the use of Fund credit under the recent
Standby Arranigements. The debt service ratio doubled from 14 percent in
1982 to 29 percent in 1984. Including IMF charges and arrears payments,
the share was 44 perceilt. In 1985-86 the debt service ratio is expected to
be about 44 percent, 60 percent including IMF charges and arrears payments.
21.       In spite of the considerable gains which have been made, Ghana's
economic situation remains difficult. That consideration plus the coun-
try's dependence on, and hence vulnerability to fluctuations in, cocoa
earnings, make it desirable that future debt service obligations be kept as
low as possible. In addition, Ghana's per capita income is relatively low
(US$350). Consequently, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for
Bank Group borrowing over the next few years. In order to help ensure an
adequate flow of foreign exchange into Ghana and to supplement the coun-
try's resource mobilization efforts, it also would be appropriate for
donors to finance a significant portion of local project costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 2/
Lending Strategy
22.       The principal objectives which now guide the formulation of the
Bank's assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of
policies designed to adjust the structure and improve the efficiency of the
economy and return it to a path of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and
improve capacity utilization of the country's existing productive assets;
(c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, particularly for
export promotion and efficient import substitution; and (d) to improve the
country's essential infrastructure (transport, water, petroleum, power) and
relievre major bottlenecks to increased production. The Bank group is
undertaking a substantial program of economic and sector work to broaden
and deepen understanding of the constraints which are likely to impede the
ret:overy proczss and to provide direction to future lending and the design
of project components. An economic memorandum (Report No. 5854-GH dated
October 7, 1985) has been prepared and, in preparation for the Second
Reconstruction Imports Credit, the Government budget and import program for
2/ This part is substantially the same as Part II of the President's
Report for the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on January 23, 1986.



- 8 -
1985 were reviewed in detail. An industrial sector study, a public expen-
diture review and an agricultural sector review have been completed. An
energy assessment is currently being carried out. In both lending and
economic sector work, attention will be given to ways of strengthening the
institutions responsible for economic management and development spending.
The Bank's dialogue has been most effective, and the Government continues
to be both receptive and responsive to the Bank's advice.
23.       In response to the Government's announcement of a major economic
reform program in April 1983, the Bank Group reopened its lending to Ghana
which had been put in abeyance for nearly two years due to economic uncer-
tainties and lack of proper economic policies. The Executive Directors
approved a US$40 million Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) which aims to
meet emergency import requirements for the agricultural and transport
sectors and is now approaching successful completion. A second RIC for
US$60 million covering the agriculture, transport, mining and manufacturing
sectors was approved in March 1985. Two credits were also made for export
rehabilitation and related technical assistance. To date, despite some
expected initial problems, the performance on projects approved after April
1983 has been satisfactory.
24.       In FY86, the Power System Rehabilitation Project with an IDA
Credit of US$28.0 million and the Health and Education Rehabilitation
Project with an IDA Credit of $15.0 million have already been approved. In
the near future, IDA expects to support a port rehabilitation project and
an agricultural rehabilitation project emphasizing cash crops. In brief,
projects with major rehabilitation components are likely to absorb the bulk
of IDA resources for the next few years as these are likely to show the
highest benefits and quickest returns. IDA is also maintaining a dialogue
with the Government for a possible structural adjustment credit in the near
future. The extent to which the Bank Group can provide financial and
technical assistance to support such a broad-based program will be
conditioned upon the performance of the Government in carrying'through its
economic recovery program.
Past Operations
25.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$189.7 million and 32 credits
totalling US$595.2 million (including two African Facility Credits for
US$37 million). In addition, Ghana is a beneficiary of a Bank-financed
regional clinker project covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and
Ghana). An IFC investment of US$55 million in Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation in Ghana was approved in June 1984. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31, 1985.
26.       Energy has been a major focus of Bank Group lending to Ghana
(23.5 percent of commitments). Projects financed in this sector include
three hydro power generation projects and three power distribution pro-
jects. A project aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to
accelerate petroleum exploration was approved in May 1983. A second



-9-
project in the sector, approved in March 1984, provides technical assis-
tance and financing of immediate requirements for rehabilitation of Ghana's
sole refinery. The second most imp-rtant sector in the Bank Group's program
in Ghana is transportation (18.2 percent of commitments) with four road
projects and a a railway rehabilitation project. The two Reconstruction
Import Credits and the Export Rehabilitation Project are also providing
partial emergency assistance to the road transport and port subsectors.
The Accra District Rehabilitation Project supports the transport subsector
in the Accra area as well as the strengthening of the administrative and
financial basis of the Accra City Council and the improvement of a poorer
section of the city. In agriculture (17.4 percent of commitments), the
main thrust of the Bank Group's operations has been to assist the country
in achieving greater self-sufficiency in agricultural production, particu-
larly food and raw materials for agro-industries, and rehabilitating the
cocoa subsector. In the field of water supply, three projects (in 1969,
1974 and 1983) have helped increase and improve water supply in the Accra/-
Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas, with the most recent one
helping to carry out emergency repairs and maintenance on main water
pipelines. In the manufacturing sector, two credit p-ojects (in 1975 and
1979) have financed investments in manufacturing and agro-industry under-
taken by small and medium enterprises.
Prcject Implementation Experience
27.       The country's economic difficulties in recent years have adverse-
ly affected a number of Bank Group-financed projects. Dwindling Government
revenues have denied projects needed local financing, and the lack of
foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported materials
and spare parts required for completed projects. The mass exodus of
qualified Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoralization, absentee-
is;m and low productivity among the remaining work force have also adversely
affected project performance. The unusually adverse conditions surrounding
Bank Group-financed projects and their generally poor performance have been
described in greater detail in the Project Performance Audit Reports.
Overall, the main conclusion of the reports was that macroeconomic and
sectoral policy constraints were the major factors responsible for poor
performance of the audited projects. Because of delays experienced in the
implementation of a number of Bank Group-financed projects in Ghana,
disbursement performance is behind appraisal estimates. Annual gross
disbursements over the four-year period FY81-84 have averaged about 20
percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments and as of September 30,
1985, US$365.6 million remained undisbursed. The Bank Group has held
periodic implementation reviews with the Government to identify steps which
could be taken by borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate disbursement
on ongoing loans and credits.
IFC Operations
28.       IFC approved an i4vestment of US$55 million in the mining sector
(Ashanti Goldfields Corporations Ltd. (AGC)) in June 1984. This is IFC's



- 10 -
first operation in Ghana. The loan will help finance a US$158 million
rehabilitation project designed to increase gold output from about
255,000 oz. in 1984 to 400,000 oz. in 1989-90, a level of production AGC
last achieved in the early 1970s before the deterioration in Ghana's
foreign exchange situation began to affect production at the mine.
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN INDUSTRY
Introduction
29.       In the context of its overall Economic Recovery Program (para 12)
the Government requested the Bank's assistance to analyze the problems
afflicting the industrial sector and develop a program for industrial
adjustment. The adjustment program described in this section evolved from
the Bank's sector work and dialogue with the Government. (A Sector Report
entitled "Ghana - Industrial Policy, Performance and Recovery" was distrib-
uted to the Executive Directors on October 30, 1985.) It is a multi-year
program, with emphasis in initial years on increasing industrial production
through increased utilization of existing capacity, while putting in place
an appropriate policy framework depending on the efficient use of resources
rather than excessive protection; and on strengthening the institutional
framework to design and implement policies and programs for industrial
growth. In this section a brief review of the industrial sector including
its performance, weaknesses and potential is presented first and then the
Government adjustment program in industry is described. Key statistics
related to the industrial sector are presented in Annex V.
The Industrial Sector: Performance and Potential
30.       In the decade following independence (1957), manufacturing output
grew by 13 percent per annum in real terms and its share in GDP rose from
around 10 percent in 1960 to a peak of about 14 percent in the mid 1970s.
Manufacturing output remained stagnant between 1970 and 1977 and then
declined sharply between 1977 and 1983, foreign exchange availability for
industrial inputs worsened during the 1970s, import costs rose and export
earnings declined. Consequently the share of manufacturing in GDP declined
from a peak of 14 percent in the mid 1970s to 5 percent currently. From
having been a leading sector generating growth elsewhere in the economy,
manufacturing became a lagging sector with increasingly underutilized
capacity.
31.      Although Ghana's industrial capacity is relatively large, diverse
and long-established compared to most other African countries, it is
largely underutilized for lack of sufficient domestic and imported raw
materials. The average capacity utilization was in the range of 43-52
percent during the period 1970-77 but fell to 21 percent by 1982. A
reversal of the decline occurred in 1984-85 as power supply was restored
and increased amounts of import licenses were issued. The large under-
utilized capacity offers the opportunity for significant increases in



- 11 -
manufacturing output in a short period, if the required raw materials,
largely imported, are made available. In addition many industrial plants
need replacement and modernization to improve productivity and meet market
demand.
32.       Ghana's deteriorating industrial performance in the last decade
is attributable to three main weaknesses of past industrial policies,
namely: (a) emphasis on import substitution through high levels of effec-
tive protection; (b) reliance on administrative controls rather than market
mechanisms to determine incentives and resource allocations; and (c) reli-
ance on unmanageably large public sector investments as the leading edge of
industrial development. All three policies are being reexamined by the
Government in light of past experience and current realities.
31.       An assessment of the overall efficiency of Ghana's industrial
structure and its consistency with Ghana's comparative advantage was
carried out as part of the Bank's recent industrial sector work (para :9).
The analysis revealed five major structural weaknesses in the sector:
(a) the imported input requirements of full capacity production greatly
exceed the amount of foreign exchange that is likely to be available for
this purpose in the foreseeable future; (b) full capacity production
exceeds the domestic market in some subsectors; (c) processing capacity
often exceeds the availability of local raw materials; (d) direct public
sector aoldings exceed what the Government can manage effectively and
profitably; and (e) a substant'al share of capacity is unlikely to be able
to produce competitively with imported goods.
34.       The analysis also revealed that there was a wide divergence
between actual and potential efficiency. Thus, although two-thirds of
firms survey-d were operating inefficiently in 1983, most would be poten-
tially effic snt if they could operate close to full capacity. Some 40
percent of tI.e potential full capacity production is in industries that are
estimated to Oa consistent with Ghana's comparative advantage but for
another 50 percent the comparative advantage is marginal, depending upon
cost structure a-.d productivity levels at the firm level.  It was also
found that wide -ariations in efficiency exist between industries and firm
within a subs-c.--,r suggesting that overall efficiency of the sector can be
significantly Lmproved under an appropriate incentives policy framework
that encouragee zfficient production rather than a subsector or firm level
restructuring approach. These results indicate that, while a restructuring
of the industriUl sector is needed, a substantial T:ortion of Ghana's
industries is, or can become, viable and sustainable in a competitive
environment. An analysis of the performance and potential of manufactured
goods exports from Ghana indicates that in a reformed policy environment
exports can recover to the levels achieved in mid 1970s when the exports
accounted for about three percent of the manufacturing sector's output and
may even show more substantial growth as the additional investment and
structural changes expected as a result of the Economic Recovery Program
have their impact.



- 12 -
Objectives and Strategy for Industrial Adjtstment
35.       There is a widespread recognition among policymakers in Ghana of
both the weaknesses and the potential of the industrial sector. It is
recognized that the primary objective, in the short run, for government
policy should no longer be to create new capacity but to reduce and ration-
alize existing capacity so that resources are concentrated in the most
pioductive industries in which Ghana has a comparative advantage. It is
agreed that the structural problems and deficiencies of the industrial
sector have their roots in over two decades of inappropriate policies and
that significant reforms would be needed to achieve restructuring objec-
tives. It is also agreed that restructuring should primarily be achieved
through reform of incentive policies rather than administrative solutions.
36.       The Government has publicly issued a comprehensive Statement of
Industrial Policy (Attachment to Annex VI) outlining its industrial devel-
opment objectives and the broad strategy for achieving them. The basic
objective for the future is to streamline Ghana's industrial capacity to
concentrate on those activities that are the most viable and sustainable
over time.  The short-run objective is to promoce rapid industrial recovery
through greater use of existing capacity. The medium-term objective is to
break production bottlenecks in the most efficient industries and achieve
significant cost reductions in others that are potentially viable, through
selective and gradual rehabilitation. In the long term, the objective is
to achieve an industrial structure that is more closely linked to domestic
resources and is internationally competitive.
37.       The adjustment strategy implied by these objectives would have
the following main elements: (a) reform of exchange rate and trade poli-
cies to eliminate excessive protection and to encourage efficient producers
and exports of manufactured goods; (b) rationalization of industrial public
enterprises; and (c) provision of additional resources to raise capacity
utilization and to rehabilitate industries that are most likely to be
sustainable in the long run.
Policy Framework for Industrial Adjustment
38.       As part of its Economic Recovery Program, launched in 1983, the
Government has undertaken substantial policy reforms. The emphasis to date
has been on exchange rate adjustment, monetary and fiscal responsibility,
pricing policy reforms, and interest rate policies (para 12). Taken as a
whole these measures have considerably improved the policy environment for
industrial recovery.
39.       Since 1983, the Goverment has taken steps to improve the busi-
ness environment that was at best ambivalent to private enterprise. The
Government has inducted private sector representatives into policymaking
bodies such as the National Economic Commission and the tripartite commit-
tee (which deals with pricing, wage and other issues involving Government,
management and labor). In recently revising and reissuing the Investment
Code, the Government has demonstrated its commitment to maintaining a



- 13 -
stable, open economy and to encouraging increased participation by both
domestic and foreign private investors in Ghana' s economic recovery. The
promulgation of the revised Investment Code should have a positive impact
on the confidence of new investors. The Statement of Industrial Policy,
recently issued by the Government, spells out the industrial development
strategy and goals of the Government and the respective roles the public
and the private sectors are expected to play in the sector. The initial
response of the private sector to both the Investment Code and the State-
ment of Industrial Policy has been encouraging. However, substantial
further policy reforms would be essential to translate this good will and
to achieve the industrial adjustment objecLives discussed above. The
policy reform program being supported through this proposed credit is
discussed below.
40.       (a) Protection Regime.  Protection to domestic industry in the
past, frequently at excessive levels, has been provided through low prices
for imported inputs and high tariffs and quantitative restrictions on
competing imports. The Government has taken policy actions which have
reduced the protection accorded to local manufactures. The exchange rate
has been depreciated by over 80 percent in real terms during the 1983-85
period. The tariff structure has been simplified and the applicable tariff
rates for industrial inputs and outputs are 25-30 percent. Given the tight
balance of payments position (para 18), quantitative restrictions still
apply through an import licensing system which rations the foreign exchange
provided by the Government. However, recognizing the constraints on its
ability to supply sufficient foreign exchange to meet demand, the Govern-
ment permits a special unnumbered import license (SUL) system to cover
imports when the importer arranges his own foreign exchange. The SUL
imports are a major market force (amounting to US$73 million during 1984
compared to non-oil imports of US$120 million financed by the Government)
and in some instances compete against local manufactures, thereby limiting
the effective protection.
41.       While the above policy changes have reduced the protection
accorded to local manufacturers, it is still high (mainly through the
quantitative restrictions) and further reforms are needed to bring down
protection to reasonable levels and expose inefficient production. Con-
tinued progress towards a realistic exchange rate and phasing out of
quantitative restrictions are keys to this task. The Government is commit-
ted to achieving a realistic exchange rate. In January 1986 the Government
further adjusted the exchange rate from 60 cedis to 90 cedis to the US$.
This would effectively raise the nominal price of imported industrial
inputs by 50 percent, encourage greater utilization of domestic inputs,
help curb the excessive demand for imports thereby facilitating import
liberalization, and improve the international competitiveness of the
industrial sector. The Government has agreed to keep the exchange rate
under review and make further adjustments (in consultation with the Inter-
national Monetary Fund) as necessary to achieve policy goals.
42.       Phasing out quantitative restrictions for industrial inputs and
outputs (inherent in the import licensing system) would go a long way in



- 14 -
helping accomplish the industrial adjustment objectives. The Government is
committed to a gradual liberalization of imports and it has already taken
several significant steps. It has liberalized imports under SULs by shift-
ing from a positive to a small negative list, thus permitting unrestricted
import of consumer and producer goods, many of which compete with
domestically manufactured goods. It has also agreed to make taxes and
special charges on SUL imports of industrial inputs eligible for waivers
and credits on the same basis as for ordinary imports of inputs. This
would encourage efficient industrial producers to utilize the SUL system
for import of raw materials and thus minimize the distortionary effects of
the import licensing system. The Government has established a Working
Group that is charged with the task of developing detailed alternative
proposals for import liberalization. A preliminary study on import liber-
alization options has already been carried out and will be useful to the
Working Group which has been asked to submit its report by end June 1986.
The Government has agreed to exchange views with the Association on the
Group's report and has agreed to approve a phased program of import
liberalization, satisfactory to the Association, prior to the release of
the second tranche (para 73).  The Government intends to begin
implementation of the phased program of import liberalization at the
beginning of 1987.
43.       (b) Export Promotion.  Substantial exchange rate adjustments and
automatic retention of a portion of export earnings constitute the main
elements of the export incentive package currently in place. The recent
devaluation has further improved the profitability of exports and the
Government is committed to an exchange rate policy designed to ensure high
and stable profitability of the export sector. The Government has agreed
to consider an increase in the percentage of earnings to be retained by
exporters of non-traditional products from 20 percent to 25 percent and to
increase flexibility in use of retentions for a wider variety of imports.
It has also agreed to eliminate procedural impediments to exports. A
number of other export promotion measures identified as part of sector work
are under active consideration by the Government. The Government intends
to decide on export promotion measures in April 1986 and implement them by
the end of 1986 as a condition of the second tranche release (para 73).
44.       The Government has agreed to strengthen the Ghana Export
Promotion Council and give it the responsibility for monitoring the
improvements in policy and administrative framework for exports and to
formulate further export irncentive measures. It has also initiated a
review of tax and price incentives and a study of additional export
promotion measures. These reviews would provide the basis for further
export promotion measures which the Government intends to implement during
the 1986-88 period.
45.       (c) Price and Distribution Controls.  The Government has taken
significant steps to reduce the coverage of price controls. Previously
comprehensive price controls tinder the Prices and Incomes Board are now
limited to eight "essential commodities", of which six are manufactured
locally (textiles, soaps and detergents, matches, matchets/cutlasses, drugs
and cement). In addition, the prices of beer and cigarettes are determined



- 15 -
in conjunction with the Government budget because of their revenue implica-
tions. The price controls are now administered more flexibly with a
greater element of automaticity in passing on cost increases and speedier
approval of requests to raise prices. The Government has also removed
distribution controls on the items lifted from price controls and generally
leaves buyers and suppliers free to negotiate even for items nominally
under price controls. These measures, together with the increased avail-
ability of resources to those industries still under control have reduced
the disincentives to producers. Under the RIC II (Credit 1573-GH), the
Government is obligated to reexamine the rationale for the remaining price
controls with a view to phasing them out completely as supply conditions
improve.
46.       (d) State-owned Industrial Enterprises.  At the Government's
request a major study of the state-owned enterprise sector in Ghana was
undertaken and completed in September 1985. The study was funded by UNDP
with the Bank as the executing agency. Its findings and recommendations
have been discussed with the Government. An action program for the
rationalization (including privatization/divestiture) of state enterprises
is being drawn up by a Task Force of the Government and two sub-committees
of the cabinet are to pay particular attention to the issues of labor rede-
ployment and layoffs. The action program would be ready by mid-1986, and
is expected to deal with overall issues such as policy, criteria for
divestiture/retention of public enterprises, institutional restructuring
for monitoring of public enterprises, selective rehabilitation, and
reducing the role of the state in selected state enterprises through
encouraging joint ventures and divestiture. The action program would also
establish priorities in the overall rationalization program and is proposed
to be supported by a structural adjustment credit (para 54).
47.       Rationalization of state-owned industrial enterprises would be a
part of the overall action program. The Statement of Industrial Policy and
the Letter of Industrial Goals and Policies (Annex VI) set out the Govern-
ment's policy fur state-owned industrial enterprises (SOIEs) which calls
for: (a) operation of SOlEs on a commercial basis without recourse to
Government financing, (b) no barriers to the entry of private firms in
areas of operations of SOIEs, (c) direct state participation on an
exceptional basis only, (d) turning several SOIEs into joint ventures,
(e) rationalization of present SOIEs' structure to improve efficiency and
reduce the size of the present SOIE subsector, (f) applying the Govern-
ment's overall criteria (being developed as part of overall SOE reform
program) for retention, joint ventures, divestiture, etc., to all SOlEs and
taking appropriate actions, and (g) a ban on the creation of new SOIEs in
the 1986-88 period. The Government has agreed to carry out the
ratioialization of SOIEs within 1986 in consultation with the Association.
Funds would be provided under the proposed Credit to assist the Government
in carrying out rationalization of selected SOIEs (para 64).
48.       (e) Public Investment Program in Industry.  Pending rationaliza-
tion of industrial public enterprises the Government has agreed that during
the 1986-88 period public investment in such enterprises should be limited



- 16 -
to most urgent rehabilitation which is evaluated to be financially and
economically viable and for which the necessary foreign exchange working
capital to make full use of rehabilitated capacity is likely to be
available within the constraints of the annual import .rogram for industry.
A review of the public investment program for the period 1986-88 was
jointly conducted by the Government and the Bank, and an overall program
was developed. As part of this overall program a "core" public investment
program for industry--not exceeding US$43 million (constant 1985 prices)
during the 1986-88 period has been developed. The Government has agreed
that this level will not be exceeded and that the rehabilitation projects
proposed will be subjected to economic and financial evaluation. The
Government has also agreed to exchange views with the Association on the
specific industrial projects included in the public investment program
during the 1986-88 period.
49.       (f) Industrial Finance.  A key constraint to industrial supply
responsiveness is the ability of enterprises to raise sufficient working
capital to provide the cedi cover which is required before the commercial
banks establish letters of credit in respect of the import licenses. This
is in part due to the creditworthiness problems facing many enterprises
given the run-down condition of their equipment, and to the cumulative
impact of the more than 3,000 percent devaluation of the cedi since 1983 on
the debt/equity structure and liquidity position of many firms. These have
resulted in a major imbalance in their financial structures and impaired
their creditworthiness in the eyes of a conservative banking community.
The Government is aware of the problem and has agreed to implement a
deferred debit scheme for import financing (para 17, Annex VI) which would
considerably ease the liquidity position of importing enterprises. The
Government has also agreed to review the situation of import financing
during 1986 and take additional measures if necessary. With a view to
encouraging firms to revalue their assets, thereby improving their
creditworthiness, the Government has agreed to exempt them from payment of
stamp or other taxes on revaluations.
50.       The Government is committed to a policy of maintaining real
positive interest rates on-deposits and loans. The current interest rates
of 18 percent on one-year time deposits and 23 percent on most loans are
positive in real terms given the estimated inflation rate of 12 percent
during 1985. Over the medium term, the availability of term loans will
play an increasingly important role in the industrial adjustment and the
overall economic recovery programs. The Government has therefore agreed to
provide training and technical assistance to commercial banks to strengthen
their capacity for term lending and establish an apex-lending arrangement
under this Credit (para 68).
Institutional Strengthening
51.       A strengthening of the folloving institutions in the specified
priority areas would be necessary to successfully implement the industrial
adjustment strategy:  (a) Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology--
policy formulation, reviewr and monitoring of public expenditures, compi-



- 17 -
lation and dissemination of industrial sector information, monitoring of
sector performance and problems, import programming coordination and
formulation/implementation of rationali7ation program for industrial public
enterprises; (b) the Bank of Ghana and local banks--implementation capacity
in the the Bank of Ghana for apex-lending arrangements, training of local
banks staff in project appraisal and supervision techniques with a view to
encourage medium-term lending by the banks, and training of banks and
enterprises staff in financial restructuring techniques; (c) Central Bureau
of Statistics--to conduct an industrial census, clear the backlog of indus-
trial and foreign trade statistics and thereafter produce it in a timely
manner; (d) Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning-formulation,
implementation, and monitoring of tariff, trade, and related policies;
(e) Export Promotion Agencies--such as Export Promotion Council, Ministry
of Trade and the Bank of Ghana to identify export opportunities, assist
exporters, formulate and implement export promotion measures; and
(f) Technical Support Institutions-such as Ghana Standards Board and Food
Research Institute which provide quality control and product testing
services to manufacturers.
52.       Technical assistance projects to assist some of the institutions
listed above are in place, funded from bilateral and multilateral sources.
However, these projects do not necessarily cover all the areas of institu-
tional strengthening listed above. Under the proposed Credit technical
assistance would be provided to fill the gaps as needed. The Government
itself is giving a high priority to carrying out a substantial upgrading of
managerial and administrative capability. Several committees of the
Government are currently considering reforms to improve public sector
management capabilities.
Relationship of the Industrial Adjustment Program to the Economic Recovery
Program (1986-88)
53.       The industrial adjustment program discussed above is an integral
part of the Government's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) for the 1986-88
period which was presented by the Government to the November 1985 meeting
of the Ghiana Consultative Group (para 13). The ERP, 1986-88, would address
the following main issues: (a) macroeconomic policies and management to
improve the structure of incentives; (b) increased emphasis on sectoral
reforms to shift the leading edge of policy reform from macroeconomic to
sectoral concerns in the key sectors of agriculture, energy, industry,
education and health; (c) rehabilitation of human capital by stepping up
expenditures for local training, health and education; (d) restructuring of
the roles of the public and private sectors through reform of wages and
employment policies, rationalization of the state enterprise sector, and
encouragements to private sector; (e) financial and banking sector reforms
to facilitate mobilization of additional resources and allocating them to
the most critical and efficient uses; (f) shifting of external assistance
and debt away from stabilization oriented external financing towards
longer-term supply oriented program and project financing; and (g) in-
creased focus in overall policies on measurev to alleviate rural poverty
and encourage rural development.



- 18 -
54.       IDA and IMF Support for ERP, 1986-88 is expected to be substan-
tial. Thie proposed Industrial Sector AdJustment Credit (ISAC) as well as
other planned sectoral lending operations in agriculture (FY87), health and
education (FY86), energy (FY86 and FY87) would support sectoral reforms
under the ERP. A structural adjustment credit (FY87) is planned to support
the reforms of macroeconomic policies, public sector management, finan-
cial/banking policies. Rationalization of state-owned enterprises
would be supported by the proposed structural adjustment credit (FY87) as
well as a public enterprises project (FY88). The Government is discussing
an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with the IMF which would follow an
eighteen-month standby program which came to an end in December 1985. The
policy reform program to be supported by IDA and the IMF is being developed
in close collaboration among the staff of the two institutions to ensure
consistency of recommendations.
Previous Bank Group Support for Industry
55.       Previous Bank Group assistance to the industrial sector has been
through two lines of credit to the National Investment Bank (NIB). The
first line was an IBRD loan of US$10 million (Loan 1180-GH) approved in
December 1975 and closed June 1984. The second line was an IDA Credit of
US$19 million (Credit 901-GH), approved in May 1979 and closed in December
1985. Both lines of credit were committed and disbursed more slowly than
expected due to the severely depressed state of the economy. The economic
deterioration of the last 10 years led to financial difficulties for all
businesses, including NIB's clients, which in turn has resulted in large
loan portfolio arrears for NIB. The Association has assisted NIB in
assessing the quality of its loan portfolio and formulating a financial
restructuring program. The Government has allocated the resources required
for financial restructuring, which is accompanied by actions agreed with
the Association to remedy management weaknesses, in particular in the loan
recovery area.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement
56.       In 1984, the Government opened discussions with the Association
on an adjustment program for the industrial sector. The main elements of
the adjustment program, summarized in Part III, were developed as part of
extensive sector work during 1984 and early 1985 (para 29). The proposed
Credit was preappraised in June 1985 and appraised in August 1985. A post-
appraisal mission visited Ghana during December 1985. Negotiations were
held in Washington in February 1986; the Ghanaian delegation was headed by
Dr. Kwesi Botchwey, PNDC Secretary (Minister) for the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning, and included representatives from the Ministry of
Industries, Science and Technology, the Bank of Ghana, and the Ministry of
Trade. Supplementary data on the Credit are presented in Annex III.



- 19 -
57.       With the Bank Group and IMF support (para 23) Ghana has embarked
on an Economic Recovery Program which has stabilized the economy and set
the stage for resumption of growth. Ongoing policy reforms and
rehabilitation programs will need time before substantial gains result. In
the interim Ghana must depend on larger net external inflows of resources
to increase the supply of goods on the market to contain the inflationary
pressures and sustain an economic environment conducive to policy reforms.
At the same time Ghana needs to rebuild its institutions to support steady
economic growth. The proposed Credit would provide quick disbursing
assistance to raise production of manufactured goods while facilitating a
medium-term restructuring of the industrial sector through incentive policy
reforms and strengthening of key institutions.
Credit Objectives
58.       The proposed Credit's major objective would be to help the
Government carry out the first phase (1986-88) of its medium-term indus-
trial adjustment program, which aims at: (a) increasing production of
locally manufactured goods through greater use of existing capacity;
(b) streamlining Ghana's industrial capacity, through (i) appropriate
incentive policies and (ii) proceeding cautiously with rehabilitation of
economically viable industries; and (c) strengthening key institutions in
the industrial sector to undertake policy analysis, credit delivery and
investment analysis.
59.       The specific actions supported by the proposed Credit are set out
in the Government's Letter of Industrial Goals and Policies (Annex VI).
The main features of these reforms are discussed in Part III above. The
timing of implementation and a brief description of proposed reforms in
each of the main policy areas addressed by the industrial adjustment
program are presented below.



- 20 -
TnM    OF AMI   IN THE MIn MUML
ADJUSWi   POMC AREAS
Actixm  Tla Betw.ui                         Actions to be Taken
Actions          Pkeraisal and Board First Year Progrm        Second Year Program
Prously Taken          Presentatim  of ISAC         1986                 1987              Mediua-Term
I. BUSlESS a.MPAE
Inchmim of  bsiness  * A public Statement  * Isa  WJiIlInes
LegresentatiVes an    of Industrial Policy  for approval under
Natfrjl Fcrit         Issue1. * Ne          the lrestnet Code.
Cadssim mi ant Ti-    Investmet Code        Siuplify and reduce
partite C(mssimi      issued.               direct and Indirect
reductim of arbitrary                       taxes. Launch an
decisions.                                  informtitm campaign
on above incentive
policy reforms by the
Governmnt.
II. P:llcrICN R1l£DE
Depreciatik   of real   * Thh. Rate ad-   * Approval on a        * Begin inplement-    Achieve and nmint-
exchange rate by over   usted in Jaumary    phased progran of    atimn of the agreed   ain realistic real
8(1 during 198385     1986 raising the      inport leraLization pased progm for    exccae rate;
period. Harxnzatim  price of Industrial  finlhdixg temparary   import liberali-        ccmplete inplem-
of custa tariffs at  input ivports by 50(. finsaal dharges if  zatimi.                 entatiom of phased
25-30% for no-t pro-   * Regulatim of SULs  recessary to permit   * Bdaluate experience import liberaliza-
dructs. Eased regRla-  shifted frma  a posi-  Import liberaliz-  with muasres intro-  tion program.
tions ard procedures   tive list to a ng-  ation.                duced in previou
for ihports wier      tive list.                                 years and uske ad-
SULs.                 * Douible taxation on                      justments. Review
SlL Lqiorts of inputs                      excha   rate ard
by industrial produ-                       uake further adjust-
cers eliminatEd.                          rents.
Note: Actions vlrked with * are proposed policy actions under the ISAC. Other actions listed are expected
to take place as part of the GoveroMEnt's on-going Econic Reovery Progran for nihich the Gwerrut
is seeking mA ard 1MF spport (para 54).



- 21 -
Acticru Taken Beowe                          Actions to be Taken
Actions           Preapral    Bord First Year ProRrm           Second Year ProRaM
Previcily Tan           Presetation of ISAC          1986                  1987              Medium-Term
m. Ewr PKRiV
Sucsive exchwg         * Qtw y devalued   * Sipiify expoting  * Ealute eperience Study the need to
rate adjustetnts.      50 percent in Jan.    procedures.           with already iplem-  contirum retention
Export earmig  reten- 1986.                  * Increase the flexi- ented export promo-   accomit/baius
tial schm. Special                           bility In use of the  tion measures and     sdme In light of
import alllcaons for                         export retention.     make adjustents.      exhane rate
first time exporters.                        * Institute a resev   * lmplment further   adjusmnts and
Provision of credits                         list of exports       export prxmtian       rxs of
to exporters.                                instead of export    nueares an the basis exports.
permit requirements.  of studies done in
* Increase amnmt of  1986.
permitted retention.
* Strergthen Ghma
Ecport Prmrtixi
Cwuncil. * Establish
post-shipment export
credit scheme.
IV. PRICE AND DlSlPBMtlEN CI 1   S
Previxosly cqpre-                            Review working of remaining price and
hensive price con-                           distribution controls with a view to
trols riw reduced to                        remove then. Study wys to maintain
eight essential ca-                          regular supply and distribution of
modities under PIB.                          essential caommdities imiportant in
Permission to raise                          ccntroUirg inflation (colitim  under
prices to reflect                            RIC II).
cost increases now
freely given. Disri-
buticn controls lifted
on the itenm not
subject to price
control.



- 22 -
Actions Taen Between                         Action to be Taken
Actions           Preaprasal mi Board First Year Progrm        Second Year Program
Previw ly Taken         Presentation of I-SC         1986                  1987              Mediln-Temn
V. STlAE-amD  INXSIREhL E193PRISF  (SOIEs)
A study of state-      Task Force to devlp * Carry out ration    * Cxtiue inpl ment- Goalete the
oned enterprises can- criteria for reten-   alization of unin      atim of action        rationalization of
pleted and under       tion and divestiture  SDIEs. * Begln div-   progran for ration-   SOIE enerprise
review. Hi level       of state-owned enter- estiture of selected  alizing SOIEs-        sector.
canmittee established  prises established.   industrLal  public
to prepare action     * Pblicy padelines   enerprises.
plan for restructur-   for ratonaliti
ing state eneprise   of         areed.
sector.                * SOIEs for seeklig
joint ventures
selected.
VI. PUIBLC Ell IURE PI(M  IN IUSRs
A core public invest-  * UpPer limit of the  * Implement the public * Review the PIP for
ment progran for the   public investnt       i t    program    inxutry to ccnfirn
peiod 1986-88 has      expenditures for      (PIP) in industry for relevance.
been d loped.          industry agreed.      1986.
-mI. INUT            FR4M-
Interest rates on                            * Etablish a deferr- * Review experien3e
deposits and irost                           ed debit sciee for   with the deferred
loans close to real                          finannwrg of imports  debit sdieme and miake
positive levels. The                         by producers.         dhanges if recessary.
Government's claion                          * Establish an apex-  * Maintain real
banks' credit reduced                        lending facility for  positive interest
to free up more                              fimnancng Industrial  rates.
resources for private                        rehabilitation pro-
sector.                                      jects. *Provide
training ard tech-
nical assistance to
local banks.
* Maintain real
positive interest
rates.
* Permi: revabijation
of assets without
payment of stanp duty
for a lindted period.



- 23 -
Description of the Credit
60.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$28.5 million and African Facility
Credit of US$25.0 million would finance four components as listed below.
Joint IDA/African Facility financing would be used for the industrial
imports component while the IDA Credit would finance the remaining three
components.
Components of the IDA/African Facility Credit
Expenditures to be
Financed
Amount
US$ million       x
(a)  Industrial Imports.  Importation of              40.00    100% of fo-
industrial raw materials, spare parts,                    rr.ign expen-
and other inputs;                                         ditures
(b)  Rehabilitation.  Equipment and services          10.00    100% of fo-
for rehabilitation/restructuring of                       reign expen-
selected enterprises;                                     ditures
(c)  Institutional Strengthening.
(i)  Advisory and consultancy services            1.80    100%
(ii) Equipment and vehicles                       0.92    100% of
foreign
expenditures
(d)  Studies                                           0.50    100%
le)  Refi-ancing of FPF Advance                        0.28    Amount Due
53.50
61.       (a) Industrial Imports Component.  There is a significant amount
of underutilized industrial capacity in Ghana and in the snort run the main
constraint to increased capacity utilization is the availability of foreign
exchange to import the necessary raw materials and spare parts (para 31).
Direct import requirements of potentially efficient industries, for full
capacity production, are estimated to exceed US$250 million per year.
However, during the last few years, only about 25 to 40 percent of the
requirements could be provided. Due to the tight balance of payments
position the Government allocates foreign exchange through an annual import
program under which enterprise level allocations are made by the concerned
Ministry. The funds provided under the proposed Credit for import of
industrial inputs would finance a part of the Government's annual import
program for industry which covers inputs and capital goods only; consumer



- 24 -
goods are included in the Ministry of Trade's import program.  Analyses of
production activities of industrial firms indicate that a majority of
firms can make efficient use of imported inputs when capital costs are
taken as sunk. Instead of proposing any administrative measures to
identify efficient and inefficient firms and allocating funds only to
efficient firms it is proposed to achieve both the short- and the long-run
efficiency goals by adjusting the price of imported industrial inputs to an
appropriate level and reforming the protection regime to eliminate
excessive protection (paras 40-42). To ensure that the annual import
program for industry will support the industrial production goals in the
short run and be consistent with the broad objectives of the industrial
adjustment program, the Government has agreed on principles to be applied
in determining the size and cpmposition of the annual import program for
industry (1986-88) (Annex VII). Submission of a 1986 import program for
industry, consistent with the agreed principles, is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit. Submission of a satisfactory 1987
import program for industry is a condition for the release of the second
tranche of ISAC.
62.       (b) Industrial Rehabilitation Component.  As noted earlier (para
31), many enterprises require rehabilitation to improve productivity. A
survey by the Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology of reha-
bilitation requirements (1986-88) estimated the priority needs to exceed
US$100 million. However, the Government agrees that rehabilitating
industrial enterprises must proceed slwly since Ci) indiscriminate reha-
bilitation could worsen the structural weaknesses in the industrial sector;
(ii) industrial production in most industries can be significantly
increased without major investments and (iii) the foreign exchange con-
straint will continue in the near future making it difficult to make
available necessary foreign exchange to fully utilize the rehabilitated
capacity. Therefore, under the proposed Credit, only a limited amount of
funds would be made available to finance rehabilitation proposals from
existing enterprises which are assessed to be economically viable over the
long run. The eligibility criteria and the financial/economic evaluation
criteria to be applied in approving the rehabilitation proposals under the
proposed ISAC have been agreed (Annex VIII).  Priority would be given to
rehabilitate those industries which use domestic resources. produce basic
consumer or exportable goods, and can make full use of rehabilitated
capacity. This selective approach to rehabilitation will be reviewed
periodically and relaxed as the reformed incentives framework t2kes hold.
63.        (c) Institutional Strengthening Component.  This component will
finance technical assistance to the following institutions to support their
organizational improvements and staff strengthening activities (para 51):
(i) the Bank of Ghana (BOG), to train local bank, BOG, and other concerned
Government staff in the areas of economic/financial analysis and restruc-
turing. This training would go beyond the immediate needs of this Credit
and would be designed to build project evaluation capability in local banks
and ministries to improve the quality of investment analysis; (ii) the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) to build staff capability
in analyzing incentive policy issues, formulating appropriate policy



- 25 -
measures, and monitoring the impact of policy measures; (iii) the Ministry
of Industries, Science and Technology (MIST), to strengthen capability for
formulating and implementing industrial policy and industrial restructuring
programs; (iv) the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), to carry out an
industrial census (last done in 1962), timely compilation of industrial
statistics, and updating and adoption of monthly processing of foreign
trade statistics; and (v) the Ghana Standards Board (GSB) and the Food
Research Institute (FRI) for the purchase of laboratory and office equip-
ment to provide quality control, product testing and other services to
manufacturers. The total cost (including contingencies) of these technical
assistance and training activities is estimated to be about US$4.8 million
of which the proposed Credit would finance US$3.0 million (63 percent),
while the Government would provide US$0.4 million (8 percent), and UNDP
would provide US$1.4 million (29 percent) (Annex IX).
64.       (d) Studies Component.  Studies to generate policy options,
enterprise and subsector level restructuring programs and other measures
for achieving the Government's medium-term industrial adjustment objectives
will be undertaken as needed. The total budget for the studies program is
estimated at US$1.0 million of which the proposed Credit would finance
US$0.5 million. The balance would be financed by UNDP (US$0.05 million)
and an already approved grant (US$0.45 million) from the Government of the
United Kingdom (Annex X).
Implementation Arrangements
65.       The Government of Ghana will be the Borrower.  The Government
would retain those portions or the Credit which are earmarked for the MIST
(US$0.30 million), MFEP (US$0.56 million), CBS (US$0.39 million), GSB
(US$0.27 million) and FRI (US$0.43 million). The balance of the Credit
amounting to US$51.55 million would be made available to the Bank
of Ghana. The signing of an Administrative Agreement between the
Government and the Bank of Ghana satisfactory to the Association is a
condition of effectiveness. The Bank of Ghana would be the main
implementing agency for the proposed Credit as set forth in the Project
Agreement. Specific implementation arrangements under each component are
discussed below.
66.       The industrial imports component will be implemented by the MIST
and the Bank of Ghana. The MIST would prepare the annual import program.
The Bank of Ghana would sell the necessary foreign exchange to importers to
facilitate imports under this component. Organizational arrangements
required for implementing this component (which represents 75 percent of
the proposed credit) are already in place. MIST has been making the annual
import program for several years and its staff and procedures are consid-
ered adequate. The Bank of Ghana has a system for releasing foreign
exchange to local bauks to finance imports under the Government's annual
import program. This system operates satisfactorily and will be used for
the disbursement ef the proposed Credit's proceeds.



- 26 -
67.       The industrial rehabilitation component will be implemented by
the Development Finance Department (DFD) of the Bank of Ghana under an
apex-lending arrangement involving seven commercial and development banks
in Ghana who have expressed an interest in participating in the Credit.
Appraisal of loan requests will be the responsibility of the concerned
participating bank which would make the final decision on whether to
approve a rehabilitation investment proposal. The Bank of Ghana has agreed
to apply the eligibility and appraisal criteria and terms and conditions
described in Annex VIII in approving sub-loans under this component.
68.       The institutional strengthening component involves a number of
Government agencies (BOG, MIST, MFEP, and CBS), each of which will be
responsible for implementation of its own strengthening program (para 63).
The proposed organizational improvements, incremental staffing require-
ments, technical assistance requirements, and terms of reference for
consultants have been agreed. All experts and consultants to be employed
under this component of the Credit would be selected in accordance with the
Bank guidelines. The Government has agreed to (a) exchange views with the
Bank on its reorganization plans for the departments/units receiving
technical assistance under the proposed Credit, and (b) cause the Central
Bureau of Statistics to carry out the industrial census by December 31,
1987.
69.       The studies component involves three implementing agencies--
MIST, MFEP, and the Bank of Ghana. The MIST will be responsible for
subsector studies, the MFEP would be responsible for policy analysis
studies, and BOG would be responsible for studies to design export incen-
tives and to prepare enterprise (mainly public) restructuring plans. It
has been agreed that (a) before beginning a study, the concerned agency
will furnish to the Association for its review and comment the terms of
reference, timetable, and a budget for each study; and (b) a copy of each
completed study will be furnished to the Association as soon as available
and that the Government will consult with the Association on the findings
and recommendations of each study financed by the proposed ISAC.
70.       Posting of additional staff in the Bank of Ghana and training of
local banks staff in project appraisal techniques are critical to timely
implementation of the rehabilitation component of the ISAC. The Bank of
Ghana has agreed that (a) prior to commencement of disbursements under the
rehabilitation component, the Bank of Ghana will assign six professional
staff to the Development Finance Department and employ a firm of
consultants to assist the BOG in carrying out the training program for
staff of DFD and local banks; and (b) during 1986, it will assign adequate
additional staff to its Development Finance and Foreign Exchange Operations
Departments to strengthen their implementation capacities consistent with
the increase in work load.



- 27 -
Status of Preparation
71.       The organization and procedures to implement the industrial
imports component (which represents 75 percent of the proposed Credit) are
well established (para 66). MIST has prepared a draft 1986 annual import
program for industry which conforms to the agreed principles. The final
import program is expected to be approved by the Government soon. As
regards the industrial rehabilitation component, several rehabilitation
investment projects have been identified and loan requests are being
prepared with the help of consultants. Request for proposals from suitable
consultants to organize training of local bank staff have been issued and
selection is expected in April 1986. Terms of reference for all technical
assistance services for the year 1986 have been agreed.
Procurement, Disbursement and Audit
72.       Procurement of goods and services to be financed using the
proceeds of the proposed Credit would be as follows: (a) all contracts
valued over US$500,000 million would be subject to ICB and less than
US$500,000 million through normal commercial practices through quotations
from at least three suppliers; (b) goods under contracts estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 may be purchased directly from suppliers; (c) procure-
ment on behalf of the Government agencies and parastatals will be through
procurement agency acceptable to the Association; and (d) consulting
services would be procured according to IDA guidelines. Procurement for
the African Facility Credit would follow the standard procedures.
73.       The US$40 million allocated for industrial imports component is
to be made available in two tranches and is expected to be fully disbursed
over a three-year period, i.e. by June 30, 1990. The first tranche of
US$25 million would be available upon effectiveness. The second tranche of
US$15 million would be available about 12 months later (about April/May
1987). Disbursement of the second tranche would be conditional on: (a)
agreement on the size and composition of the 1987 annual import program for
industry; (b) the Government approving a phased program of import
liberalization satisfactory to the Association (para 42); and
(c) satisfactory implementation of agreed export promotion measures during
1986 (para 43).
74.       Disbursements would be on the basis of 100 percent of expendi-
tures for: (a) foreign exchange costs of imported raw materials and spare
parts under the industrial imports component (US$40.0 million); (b) foreign
exchange costs of imported goods or services for eligible subloans under
the rehabilitation component (US$10.0 million); (c) expert advisory serv-
ices, short-term consultancy services, and technical equipment and vehicles
under the institutional strengthening component (US$2.72 million);
(d) short-term consultancy services for studies (US$0.5 million) and
(e) refinancing of the PPF advance (US$0.28 million). Excluded categories
involve goods financed from other sources, consumer goods, goods intended
for military or para military use, alcohol, tobacco, nuclear reactors and
uranium and crude oil. An estimated schedule for disbursements is



- 28 -
presented at Annex XI. All disbursements would be fully documented with
the exception of reimbursement applications related to contracts of less
than US$200,000 equivalent under the industrial imports component and to
contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent for other components of the
proposed credit which would be disbursed on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Separate Special Accounts for the African Facility and the
IDA Credits would be established by the Bank of Ghana in a commercial bank
authorized to deal in foreign exchange transactions, in order to ensure
speedy disbursements under the Credit. An initial deposit of US$5.0
million would be paid into each Special Account upon effectiveness of the
Credit at the request of the Borrower. Retroactive financing of up to the
equivalent of SDR 5 million (SDR 2.5 million each from African Facility and
IDA Credit) would be provided to cover eligible expenditures made prior to
the signing of the Credit but after October 1, 1"'5.
75.       The Bank of Ghana, the main implementing agency, will maintain
records and accounts in respect of all disbursements under the Credit,
including the Special Accounts and separate accounts for amounts disbursed
on the basis of the statement of expenditures. It would arrange an audit
of these accounts each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association. As regards the expenditures incurred under the
institutional strengthening and studies component, by agencies other than
the Bank of Ghana, the concerned agency would prepare and furnish the
Association an annual Statement of Receipts and Expenditure which would be
audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Monitoring and Reporting
76.       The Bank of Ghana, as the main implementing agency, will be
responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Credit and would
furnish quarterly progress reports to the Association. The MIST will
submit to the Association an annual report (first such report to be
submitted in June 1987) on the industrial sector's performance in terms of
certain key performance indicators such as output and employment expansion,
capacity utilization rates, and local value added. In addition it will
submit a report at half-yearly intervals on the progress of (a) the annual
import program for industry and (b) the assistance provided to Ghana
Standards Board and the Food Research Institute. The Central Bureau of
Statistics will submit a report at quarterly intervals on progress in
implementation of its work program covering industrial census, industrial
statistics, and foreign trade statistics. The consultants funded under the
proposed Credit to assist the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
will submit through MFEP to the Association a biannual report on progress
of work done.
Impact and Risks
77.       The first and the foremost impact of the proposed Credit would be
to raise production of locally manufactured goods in Ghana. This would be
achieved through the transfer of resources to help finance the annual
import program for industry thus helping to alleviate the main short-term



- 29 -
constraint to increasing industrial production. The annual import program
should help the industrial sector achieve an annual growth rate of 8
percent over 1985-88, as opposed to the steady decline since 1977 (which
reduced real output by nearly half). In the absence of the proposed Credit
it is unlikely that an increase in funding for imported industrial inputs
would be available.
78.       Although the proposed Credit does not directly benefit the poor,
it supports the Government's Economic Recovery Program (para 53) which has
a high degree of complementarity with the objective of poverty alleviation.
The proposed Credit would influence the product mix available on the
domestic market in favor of mass-consumption items (rather than imported
luxury goods) by allocating foreign exchange to their producers. It would
also help increase cavacity utili!zation in these industries from the
present 20-30 percent to a target of 40-50 percent, thereby reducing unit
costs reinforcing downward price pressures and benefitting employment. A
recently completed study on price effects of exchange rate adjustments in
Ghana shows that for a significant number of locally manufactured goods the
price rises are dampened because scarcity rents rather than the prices
absorb much of the cost increases due to the devaluation. In some cases
the increased availability of locally produced goods should exert a
downward pressure on prices, many of which at present include scarcity
premia.
79.       The policy reforms to be supported by the Credit would help
achieve, over a medium term, restructuring of the industrial capacity in
Ghana to increase its efficiency. The structure of industrial production
would shift gradually as the protection regime is reformed through exchange
rate adjustment, liberal import of competing goods under SULs, and phasing
out of quantitative restrictions implicit in the import licensing system,
yielding a more uniform pattern of effective protection as the present
tariff structure takes hold (30 percent on most items). After the adjust-
ment period, the activities that thrive are expected to be those with
relatively high value added at world prices, greater use of domestic
materials, and the best prospects for increasing export revenues.
80.       The proposed institutional strengthening under the Credit would
facilitate the adjustment process and would help rebuild institutional
capacities which have deteriorated significantly in the last few years.
The staff training would enable the concerned institutions to improve the
quality of work and services performed and thereby contribute more effec-
tively to economic growth.
81.       The risk of the adjustment program relates to the uncertainty of
assessing the length and the difficulty of the adjustment process and to
the related possible internal pressures to slow down the pace of reform or
even reverse it. Of particular concern would be the exchange rate and
import protection policies. The risk is limited by the Government's
declared commitment to pursue an exchange rate policy aimed at ensuring the
relative profitability of export activities in comparison with other
domestic activities and its willingness to take substantive actions in the



- 30 -
last two years and most recently in January 1986 to move the exchange rate
in this direction. The proposed liberalization of SUL imports would
provide an interim approximation to a liberal trade policy and limit the
extent of effective protection to locally manufactured goods. Imple-
mentation delays represent the other main risk. A continuation of past
problems in obtaining import financing could seriously delay the disburse-
ments. The Government's decision to establish a deferred debit scheme to
provide import financing should minimize this risk (para 49). A close
watch during the implementation of the proposed Credit would be kept on the
situation regarding import financing. The Government's limited administra-
tive capacity may also result in implementation delays, particularly of
institutional strengthening activities. The design of the ISAC takes this
into account by proposing that most of these activities would be imple-
mented by expanding existing UNDP projects under cost-sharing arrangements.
Once the proposed technical assistance is in place it would assist the
Government staff in implementation activities.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and the proposed Africa Facility
Credit would comply with the provisions of the African Facility Resolution
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credits.
Attachments
Washington D.C.                                    A.W. Clausen
March 5, 1986                                      President



-31 -                                           AMNEX I
,AI b S    F: 3                                 Page  1 of 6
GHANA                 - SUCIAL INDCATOIS DATA SNXT
GHANA                               unuguNC  CRoOn (slosAEA)
3051                    (MST5 RECENT KSTDIATEJ lb
ICEIIT        LaS INCOS AFRICAt       MIDLEg INCSiu
1960L       Mott!! rzjtSTiATIA     SOUTH OF bAHARA      AFRCA S. UP SAHARA
AS   TIUSID Iq. M)
TOTAL                             233.5      238.5       238.5
AGRICOLTURAL                      62.3        61.4       62.2
CQ PR CAPIA (o)                        ....                310.0             233.8                   ID63.8
ENERY cUUmImrUw Psi CAPITA
(KILOnAS OF OIL OUIVALINT)         71.0      180.0       160.0             62.3                    S81.5
POUCTIOC AND VITAL STATISTIC
POP1LATION,ID-YEAR (YHOUSAMS)   6832.0      8620.0    1218.0
uA  POPULATION (E OF TOTAL)       23.3        29.1       3N.1              ZO.1                     32.0
POPULATION PROIECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 200D (HILL)                          23.1
STATIONY POPULATION (tILL)                             64.0
POPUluATtON HOmHT                                       2.0
POPULATION DNSITF
PER SQ. Iff.                     2b.6       36.1       53.7              33.2                     65.1
PER Sq.  I. ASRI. LAND          109.7      140.3      197.5             112.8                    124.8
POPULATION MS  STIUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                        44.5       45.7        47.9              66.0                    45.b
15-4 YRS                        52.8        51.5       48.6              50.8                     51.5
Oa AND ADM                        2.5        2.6        2.4               2.9                      2.7
POPUIAT;N GROWN RATE (C)
TOTAL                             4.4        2.3        3.1               2.8                      2.9
URWA                             9.2         4.6        5.0               6.4                      5.1
C-3C   Rt.-H RATE (PER TINUS)      50.2       50.2       49.3              &7.2                     47.0
0001 DE ATH RATE (PER TROlS)       17.3       16.3       10.0              17.8                     15.0
ciRoSS RWPROOUTTON RATE             3.5        3.4        3.4               3.3                      3.2
FAMILY PLAAUI
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOU)          ..         8.3       33.5 /c
US0   (Z CF MARlID WOIME)         .          1.5       1o.o 7d            3.3                      6.4
NDEX OP FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     93.0       101.0       63.0              63.3                     82.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF RQUIREHCIITS)    97.0        97.0       69.0              L7.7                     95.5
PROTrINS (GSU   PER DAY)        46.0        50.0       40.0              51.9                     55.4
0F tUHICH ANIIAL AID PULSE      13.0       17.0       15.0 lc           18.7                    1l.5
WILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        28.6        21.4       12.0              23.1                     16.6
LiFE Ea ECC. AT  IRTH (YEARS)     68.5        53.2       58.9              47.8                     52.0
INFANT HDRT. RATe (PER TIIOS)    143.0       122.0       97.0             119.5                   108.8
ACCESS T0 SAFE wATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                             ..        35.0       47.0 /a           Z7.1                     42.4
URBAN                            ..         86.0       72.0 /a           63.5                     67.5
RURAL                             ..        14.0       33.0 a7           19.3                     35.8
ACCeSS TO EXCErTA oISPOSAL
(Z OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                             ..        55.0       27.0 /a           26.5                     28.9
URBAN                             ..        92.0       47.0 -7           65.4                     57.7
RURAL                            ..         60.0       17.0 ir           20.8                     20.7
POPULATION P   HsICIAIN        21690.0    12920.0      7160.0           27901.7                  11791.7
POP. PER NURSIC PERSON          5410.0 If  1070.0       770.0 Id         3308.4                   2459.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          1290.0      760.0      530.0            1273.6                    9e1.1
URBAN                           290.0 If   770.0      830.0 Ic          428.2                    368.8
RURAL                         47390.0 7I   890.0      730.0 7          3292.5                   4371.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BO         ..          ..         ..                ..                     27.2
AVERE SULE oF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                             ..         4.7
URBAN                            ..
RURAL                            ..          ..
AVERASE NO. OF PERSONS/ROCK
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                            ..          ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
PERCENTAGE OF IIELLINGS U1TH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URN                               ....
flAL                              ..         ..         .                  ..



-32 -                                             ANNEX I
T A  t L E 3A                              Page  2  of  6
CHANA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                               REFERENCE ROUPS (WEIGCiTED AVERAGES) /a
Mu ST                   (IDST ItECENT ESTIMATE) /b
EFCENT        LOW INCOME AFRICA        PUDDLE INCOME
196Otb-    19701-b ESTmATXk         SOUTH OF SAHARA     AlRICA S. OF SANARA
eWCATOII
ADJUSTED EHUOLINENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  38.0       64.0        76.0              67.6                     95.7
MALE                   52.0       73.0       85.0              77.6                    ID0.O
FEMALE                25.0        54.0       66.0              54.9                     83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  5.0       14.0        34.0              13.5                     17.3
MALE                   9.0        21.0       42.0               17.9                    25.0
FEMALE                 3.0         S.O       26.0               9.1                     14.8
VOCATION  (2 OF SECONDARY)          3.3       23.3         1.9              13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIAMY                           31.0       30.0        31.0              44.9                     41.1
SECONDARY                        16.0 a     17.0        22.0              27.4                     25.5
TousIrPICN
PASSENGER CARSJTHOUSAND POP         3.0        4.6         6.8 /c            3.d                    ZU.8
RADIO REEILVERS/THOUSAND POP       42.8       81.6       170.9              55.8                    107.8
TV RECEIVERS/TTOUSAND POP           0.1 Ih     1.Y         5.9               2.6                     Z0.8
NEWSPAER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESTr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           29.9       58.0        30.9 Id            5.0                     18.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     1.6        2.2         0.4 7i-           0.5                     0.4
LAU  FOR
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOuS)        2931.0     3424.0      4522.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 42.6       42.1        41.3              34.2                     36.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            64.0       58.0        53.0 le           77.5                     54.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               14.0       17.0        20.0 W             9.7                     18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            42.9       39.7        35.6              39.3                     36.8
MALE                             50.0       46.6        42.1              50.9                     47.1
FEMALE                           36.0       33.0        29.4              28.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.1        1.2         1.4               1.3                      1.3
InISXI DISmmnan
PERCENr OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20? OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..
tI-3EST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..
LOSEST 4OX OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
PrETY TAQtT GROUPS
ESTIMATlE  ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        307.0 /i          165.5                    590.7
RURAL                             ..         ..        150.0              95.0                   275.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        156.0 Il          113.1                    545.6
RURAL                             ..         ..        130.0              67.6                   201.1
ESTItATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                             ..         ..          ..               36.6
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..               61.B
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The grFap averges for each indicator are mopulatloruwighted arithmetic means. CWverag  of coantriea
song the indicators dependa on availability of data and in not uniform.
lb   Unless otberwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Most Recent estimte" between 1981 and 1983.
Ic  1977; /d 1979; /a 1980; /f 1962; /g Public education only; Ih  1964;  i 1978.
JUNiE, 1965



-33-                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINrnONS OF SOCAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the data ac drwn from source generally judged the moutauthoritativc and reabic it should also be noted that they may not be inlttonaly
comnparsable baw of ti lack or standardized definition and concepts used by diffecnt countries in colcting the doat. The data are noncthelk  useful to
descibe order of mantude, indiate trends, nd characti  cein major diffcrean  betwten contrie.
The refeenac groups are (3) the me country group of the subict country and (2) a country group with sonewhat higher averae incomc than the country
group rfthc subjet country (cccept ror -High Inconc Oil Exporter group whec 'Middle Income North Africa nd Middle Eat'" is choen because of stronger
sociocutl aflinitics). In the refecd e group data the aveaes are popuation weighted arithmetic mearn ror each indicator anJ shon only when majority
ofthe countrics in a group hs data for that indictor. Since th coverge ofcountries among the indicators depends on the availability ordata and is not uniform,
caitie,. must be cxercised in  atng avcrages of one indicator to another Thee averages are only usful in companng thc value ofone indicator a a ttmc among
the country and refcrcnc groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude rnth Rate (per t-housad)-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface arca comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Lrude Death Rate (per rhosmand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agvieustal-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mnid-ycar population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pasturcs, market and kitchen gardens or to  Cress Repreduction Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
le rallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her nonnal reproductivc period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World      F       Pa.im-Acceptors, Anual (thousanduj-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (198 1-83 basis); 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    fluiy PlAauiag-lsers (percent ofnrried wamen) -The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women ofchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
TotaPepaltin, Mid-Year (thousds)- -As of July 1; 1960,1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Index ofFood Production Per Capita (1969-71 = If) - Index of per
porban htpontioe  (percenf   of totafn -Ratio of urban to total  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different dcfinitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
hbpulaioa Prajsctiou                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popsrdation in year 2000-The projection of population for 200o.  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separatly. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates, and  hvestock products. Agg.regate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population bucame stationary.               Per Capita Supply of Calories (per    ofrequiremaets)-Comput-
Srationry population-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Nd supplies
(net reproduction rate= I). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentwn-Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capta Supply of Protein (,grams per Ay)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
ppulation Densiy                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkin.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capta Ptein Supply From Anim  and Puls- - Protein supply
Per sqkln. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
P     qopation Age Structre (perceutD-Children (0-14 years). work-  Chl (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per Ihstsmnd)- Numberofdeathsof
ing age (I 5-64 years). and retired (65 years and ovcr) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (perceAt)--totl--AnnuaI growth rates of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Popation Growth Rate (percent)-urhau-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy at Birth (year)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 19S0-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all peopLe



- 34 -                                        ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its tife.  PuI-teaher Ratio - priwiy. and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
ua&    MrswaEly Rtwe (per tisud)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levh.
before reaching one year of age per thouund lvC births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Aes sa Sit Wate (plecext of pep jwk-E90tI, whew., and         Pasenger Car (per heomd papliadon)-Passenger cars com-
rrn&-Number of people (total urban, and rural) with reaonable  prime motor cars seating les than eight persons; cdudes ambul-
aces to safc water supply (icludes treated surface wates Or   ances, hearses and miltary vehices.
untreated but uncontaminat  water such as that from protected
bormolm spiip nd sanitarwcs)ap         tes-                   for radio bradcasts to geeal pubic per thousand or population:
tive populations In an urban area a public rountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
loated not more than 200 meters from a house may be consdeed              r
as being within resonable acess of that house. In rural areas  registraon o radio sets was   effcn  data for recent years nay
reasonable aceess would imply that the housewife or members of the  not be comparable mince most countres abolshed heensing
houselhold do not have to spend a diproportioate part or the day  TV Receirs (per thassandpopu.laisdo)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water need                          to geneal publc per thousand population; excludes uniensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Excrete Disposa (pmrent of 'popunioa)--total, 04&X  in effect.
and nrl-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspaper CGhon (per thosad popehourn-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age irculation of 'daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recoring general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar instalations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
1puu.. per Physimn-Fbpulation divided by number of prac-      Cima Anna Atendance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tisng physicians quaified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year, incduding adrussions to
Popaldo per NuArsen Pou-Iopulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurse and nursing auxilaries.                       LABOR FORCE
Popolmden per Hospital Ned-toal wb, ad rnrdl-Population      Total Labor Force (thonsands)-Economically active pmons, in-
notai urban. and rural)         their resp*tve number of      duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beur availabl inpubicandepd vatby g enl and .        students etc.. wvering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers Hospitals are establshments  anous countres are not cornparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fenae (percenu)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding pnncipally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, indude health and medical centers not pennmanently staffed  Agriclue (percem)-Labor force in farning, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwie, etc.)    and fishing as peroentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acaommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faciCties.                                         Indastry (perccur)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adndssias per Hospital Bedl-Total number of admissions to or  facturing and dectricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from bospitas divided by the number or beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
-wrtadt  Rate (percexrn-rorta. mae, adfenmale-i prticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Aiere 5e ef Hosehod (p s per hosehld-total, arbn,             as percentages of total male and female population of all ages
ad rand-A household consists of a group of individuals who share    respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Avere Nmber of Persns per Reom-rotal, aren, and rral-        Economic D      qepnecy Rato-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in ael urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwdlings exdude
non-pennanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Peretage of Dwellngs wit Eleidky-ttal, vrba. an rura-         Prceage ojf Total Disposabk ncme (both in csh and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings rspectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjted &e/r Raios                                             The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P,rnary school - toral, male and femal-Gross total, male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimaed Absolte Poverty Income Lev  f USS per capita -urban
respective primary school-e populatons. While many countries  ad rr-Absolute poverty income level is that income levl
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimaed Retrive Povert nm  Level (S per capik-ourban
education, gross enroUlment may exceed 100 pent since sonmc   ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
SEcandwy school - toal, mae and female-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
seondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimared Popltiem Beow Absolrue Perty Incme Level (per-
nary instruction; provides general vocational, or teadher training  centi-arbon and rur- Percent or population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
ence cous are geneally exduded.
Vocazrind Eroibmi (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions incude technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
BURUII DDWA1M
QG  PE rAPT  IN 1984: US$0 1/
_WNAIMIL PMUCI IN 1984 I/ yAL  M  (F CRIf
(2 Ocautut Prices)
Cai MIf.            ,                      1979-%
G  at Mhrkit Prices                       287,507            100.0                    -2.0
Gros Dm.stic Inmbtmet                      21,068              7.3                    -5.9
Gros Natbal Sawivg                         13,267              4.6                   -14.7
wreit Acemmt Bhal                           7,801              2.7
Ep-ort of Goods, NIS                      21,356               7.4                   -10.4
hort of Goods, NS                         28,911              10.1                    -8.7
nnplrr AMUAM ORME
O.ltqpt in 1984                       labor Force, 1983
Gedis Mll.             2               M£l.        2
Agriculture                                141,904              51.3            2.584       57.2
Indbustry                                  23,434                8.5            0.691       15.3
Services                                   111,150              40.2            1.242       27.5
CDP at Factor Cost                        276,488              100.0            4.517      100.0
GOVERBM Fwiz3
1983                           1984
Cdifi l ML.   Z of GDP 2/       CAiBsM NL     Z of0G    /V
Total Revewie and Grnt:s                   10,241          5.3            22,641           7.9
Total Bpqenuitire ard Net LTndirg          15,178         7.9            27,485           9.6
OnveaLL Deficit (-)                        -4,937         -2.6            -4,844          -1.7
M,f, OEM= AND PRECE 3/
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982   1983    1984
Hmaey and Quasi-money            3,044   5,131   5,942   7,949  12,029  14,837 20,803  31,962
Boak CGredi to DPublic Sector    3,203   5,636   6,537   8,480  14,043  17,140 29,392  41,747
fanCkedict to Private Sector       560     739      796     940   1,342   1,558  2.838   5,978
(Nrcentages or Irxc Ncuiers)
Mmey andQuasi-mdney as Z of GDP   27.3    24.4    21.1    19.4    15.7    16.7    9.8    11.1
General Price Idc  (1977-100)    100.0   173.1   267.3   401.2   868.6  1062.4 2367.4 3,307.3
1/ Staff   E s.
2/ RatMos are ca          a recenly reised (MP seim.
/ P= IPS



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANMCF PAThl                                        MIMAINISE EXU     (AVHRAl 1980-84)
1983     1984 1/
(19$ mwuu                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US$ Mil111  z
Trade Balance                 -100      -102          Cocoa  e   & Products       458.2       66.9
Exports f.o.b.               439       566          Gold                        134.0       19.6
Iiports c.i.f.               539       668          Residual 011                 32.9       4.8
Tinher                      24.3        3.5
Ivisiblas Qlet)               -130      -113          Electricity                  13.0        1.9
Services                    -147      -186             ganese                     7.2        1.0
Transfers                     17        73          Diawml                        5.6       0.8
All Othar Goods             10.1        1.5
urrent Blaice                -230      -215
Total                      685.3      100.0
Grants                        72       141
Off ical capital (Nt)         28        88          ENPL DET, lMlE3    1984
Private Capital (Net)         14       -12
Capital n.e.s. 2/           -127      -123                                              US$ Nli.
Overalln Balce 2/             -243      -121          Total Outstanding and
Dlsbursed 1SiT                    1,122.4
Arrears Paynats                -34       -61
Gross International
Reserves (! of Period) 3/   217        393
DEOT SERVICE RATl  RR 1984 4/           Z
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                         Total Ostandfrg ard
US$1 - ¢1.15                                   DisbursedlMLT                         29.3
Total Qzstading and
Sice Aug. 26, 1978,  US$1  - e 2.75                     Disbursed inc. paymnt arreas         39.3
Since April 21, 1983, US$1  - e24.69
Since Ort. 10, 1983,  US$1  - 930.00                  IBD/MA, I1ING (June 30, 1985)
Since ifh 25, 1984, US$1  - 035.00
SinEe Augut 25, 1984, US$1  - 08.50
Sice Deceiber 3, 1984,US$1  - 00.00
Since April 19, 1985, US$1  - 053.00                  (itsnlig & Disxwsed         122.31   206.56
SInce hlp2st 12, 1985. US$1  - 057.00                 Urdisbursed                   5.80    178.86
Since Oct. 7, 1985,   US$1  -  60.00                  (    ^atsta1     inmcl.
Since Jan. 11, 1986   US$1  - 00.000                    Udishbrsed                128.11   385.42
1/ Pra 8sional estiutes sibject to chye.
2/  1xEi    erromrs and oissis.
3/S Including Sd at natioxal valuatir..
4/ As Z of eorts of gpods anid m-fator series (excule dart-tem debt).
Fdeb y 1986



- 37 -
ARECUI
7K SATE OF BANK P G    nPAsIN GM   1/
SIA1EI? OF  A   MM Dm AMD I  CPri (As of Der 31, 1985)
oIn or             -Axmt WS h                                            2 )2/
Credit   Fiscal                                              lss Ce ,e,lari
Number   Year     Borrowl Brlak  ID  Urdiaused 3/
Ten loans i adirtee  credits fUlly dis,ursd                 189.7 107.4
901-a   1979     RepulIc of Ghan   Second NIB                     19.0     2.0
1009-QI  l980     Republic of  uma  Volta Regkm Ag.Dev.           29.5    21.6
1029-UH  1980     Repblc of aum   Third d   LI*y                  25.0      1.6
1170-Q   1981    PRpblic of Qu    R philiy                        29.0    12.2
1327-a   1983     Republic of  a    R     n        CIO             9.3     9.5
1342-al  1983     Repblic of Gma  Water &upply                    13.0     5.8
1373-GH  183      Rebli of Cua  ftar E   Project                  11.0     8.1
1393-GI  1983     Repbl of Qua                   inot Cr.         40.0      6.9
1435-G   1984     Republic of Qua  Export RI Ibiltadcz            40.1    33.9
FV09-G   1984     Replblic of Gum  EHort R blitatin               35.9    32.0
1436-S   1984     Repiblic of Ghnsa  1pt RebLUtatim
Technical Assistawe        17.1   31.6
1446-G   1984     RepLbic of  uns  Petl0m  Refinery Re3ab.
and Technical Assistace      6.9     5.6
1498-U   1984     Repiblic of Guns  Secad Oil Palm                25.0    23.2
1564-GI  1985     Repxblic of Gana  kccra Disaict Rebab.          22.0    22.9
1573-a   1985     Republic of Gua  Second   xttcm
I i rIs Credit             60.0    45.5
AM3-GH  1985      Republic of Gum   Secwd R      trutic
fr~,orts Credit            27.0    27.0
1601-GR  1985     Republic of Ghans  Road      litatim and
laintewee                  40.0    41.4
A001-Gl  19C5     R Public of Gns  Road Ralitation and
Manenne  4/                10.0    10.0
1628-G   1986     Republic of Gum   Power Systm
Rehabilitation 4           28.0    28.0
Total                                    189.7 595.2  348.8
of 4dch bas been paid                     66.8   4.7
Total oww outstaudLug                    122.9 590.5
huxx  sold                  0.4
of hdch has bee repaid    0.4             0.0   0.0
Total n held by Bank & IDA               122.9  590.5
Total zurslbursed                            0  348.8 348.8
1/  TMm sa9 of tie project listed in this part is dci in a separae report an al
fl*/ M&fnaed projects in  cuticn, %*ihis utdated twdc yearly and Lrlate
to the ghwn ve DMrectos on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Prior to ebipe adjutnits.
31  ralcculated at the owbvge rat  applicable on Decediw 31, 1985.
N ibt yit effictive as at Deceder 31, 1985.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project : Three months
(b)  Project prepared by               : Ministry of Industries, Science
and Technology and the Bank of
Ghana
(c)  First presentation to the Bank    : March 1985
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission    : August 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  February 21, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness     : July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
signing of a satisfactory Administration Agreement between the
Government and the Bank of Ghana (para 65);
(b) Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (para 73)
Ci)   submission of a satisfactory 1987 annual import program for
industry;
Cii) approval of a phased program of import liberalization acceptable
to IDA; and
(iii) satisfactory implementation, during 1986, of agreed export
promotion measures.
(c) Other Conditions
(i)  Ministry of Industry to follow agreed principles while making
its annual import program (para 61);
(ii) Bank of Ghana to follow agreed eligibility and evaluation
criteria for sub-loans under the industrial rehabilitation
component (para 62).



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTNENT CREDIT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                         Document Title
1.   Ghana:  Industrial Policy, Performance and Recovery
Report No. 5716-GH, September 30, 1985. Document No. GH-Industry
Sector-BR
Volume I : Main Report
Volume II: Appendices
2.   Ghana:  Priorities for Public Expenditures (1986-88)
Report No. 5824-GB, August 13, 1985. Document No. GH-LEAP-BR
3.   Republic of Ghana:  Progress of the Economic Recovery Programme
1984-86 and Policy Framework, 1986-88. October 1985.
(Report distributed by the Government to the Third Meeting of the
Consultative Group for Ghana in November 1985.) Document No.
227.66±
Working Papers (WP)
4.  WP No. 1: Proposals for Strengthening of Ministry of Industries,
Science and Technology. Document No. 228.402
5.   WP No. 2: Proposals for strengthening of Policy Planning
Capabilities in Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Document No. 228.403
6.   WP No. 3: Role and Institutional Strengthening of the Bank of
Ghana. Document No. 228.404
7.   WP No. 4: Support to Central Bureau of Statistics.  Document No.
228.405
8.   WP No. 5: Support to Ghana Standards Board and Food Research
Institute. Document No. 228.406



- 40 -                                          ANNEX V
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTIMENT CREDIT
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR BASIC DATA SHEET
. ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~      ~         g
m h n 15h       I     _ A                                     19     193 1
two V W)SW -A Tmm Cs 'l                    U                                     1  -C.
Go-  Cu   4wam                       ZT       . lbo (+ t.M   -=,-  1.1           ( 2)      -,Ow   -u       TI6       -
2.an1~5u          ~        7i!U  !*J   1j         =         up &G    n CZ)                  4     3       5.     .17.9.
51,I6  1.501    IA      1.9        -nEm (S)                       0     1     31.9      -3.5
rz1.z                     1.033    56    -1.    -0-0        mm         CZ)                  I     1      16.5    -u.s
1_RflisWZ                 679    315    -1.6    4.5       Wmm     CX                      I     I      4.7    -15D.
"La1  A *=mYft            13      56   -5.9    -5.8        (odd CX)                       7    23      2.         3.9
nt1dz & m                  16    23      0    -12.7         .          °a= (CE           1A     9      7.5      -4.1
MB Z   U      -0.1   -6
1977           1912             I_    4                  197    16    1970 75   175.6
- - ~~~~~~~~lm:L ($                       1-M                                -siV A-
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   an  Sr  -iz-  -w1
vahin* M   in VARiM=Wf   k          Z    Au        Z-                                                             9P
07L            I           1 3      10   3 178   IW          lMOuab1  Cx        '          11    WA       2.0      -5.3
ram. I      .zq    &  m    a   b-       *14m    -            GM& CZ)
MMMTl & 14p_d               156    12     24      8           hinhit      u                7    WA       S39.6      .1
Ibat &Pixht                 96      7      261                  s CX)
p*   &   D       ftincq                                     haiL A        cX (S)          Z     W/A      0A        7.7
&FshUq                      26     2      85      3        Na.buu   Pw        .' -       23    WA       11.6     -2.3
_inlm, htU.a.                                                  (    ndab CE
P:rc * R*br Pft m    35D    23    667    21               nkubl. ftkmo                  10    WA      22.6
Mm-nod lnzmi Pz.bm          25      2      105    3          MbAdal (C)
-koft                      190     14    212      7         Pxumin'  bied                 211    /A     11.8       8.7
lbc_  FPnk    a NAnm        78      6      165    S
*dw                          .2     0       5     0                                    1975 ftrlm    Gt_ S Of
c                F           b5   1912      190      112
-O&M-t.L snw a CZ)  1962   19m8e1112   1982   M2             id1Szg CE                     48     5        -
uh"   S~Aft        ls  2 i-  Mr1  MyI-l                ad  _m m                      I      I
jai=  5am4bIul          7.1   3.4    15.9    2.9   23.6    TcM         BUId g             15      8
?dem G           _mIjPcaW    4J8  21.1   2.5-    3.9   2Z4  lbdin    &  Itqed             2)    23
pdim  0meO            3U    120    .7   12.3   M.3          Od                            is    14
Fm-g P                 6.2   8.A    8.6   565    5                   (!1000)                   19W      198g     19112
hom                              12      =18
.^-iQICP              prft cde    v        Cs NU.)                  -Q                                    -S        1( s
1'6    158    1E3 u    19                  8EO                                    75       68
Cold Cig)     1        I0   8aH    -W  lWq.                             an 0     Ixr             16       16       16
Dn    COW. C)           8M6    339    15    WA
Bass  CMl,  .)          181    70       9    WA
?        Cam. sin)      m      173    22    VA               siddy 1       kdw    4(i          1912
-m1m. Fhtmuy A H &                3w
ram  W      (1977-1W    19W    1981   191    198    1981     Mfq &  mn7fzt                       87
GrM      C       U ilml)  Mfl  -   l=  2 M           3.31s5   _aafml                             787
u31m.1                   380    524    712  1.63   2.959     UZ1dm                               74
Aplaamnm                35    476    773  1.73   2.676        _taztm                            S21
Iufh& QAm               45D    756    W?  1.116  2.078       Od                                 891
3a7     6    633  1.539  3.372
tlWizlin                174    LV    519    391  3.160                                 Vaha  (Ct.Wm CM) vale (Q d¢L)
3D6    439   798  1.14  2.731    sic hoaula    bg. 1983                 0.5             744
-=.. Mm                      1131  1912  19PM   1981   965
1              -e  CX  198 I 911 2 1 933 1912   19o   196    .g  b f        VW1 Sw 3W       12   13  26   _          1 5
al                      4 14   -306   -21   WA                            192
FAML~ ~ ~                 -6  -10      -21.  WA                 co-zss  _  MLIg                 o
ltnAL                    ~~~~~~~2N   1,830
s   H41i|tk                2.5%8  1.469
<z (C ilL)   977   1962   1983   1981               I8ash  & k1aW AMSV1                   4   WA
,7                    4.145  16,00e 22.608 29i              12CCdLy Caqarc1m                     26   WA
_       c 2c.70  11,06  21,59 22.818
MA l             S W    1.556  2.838  6.231                                  1973 77  1978-12  19811  1961 196
ad     Ob"              1_ 16.75          3      0
ct Gm11ay   t - u             h .   t  
o:__               f Ow. Cmc=L 1m1 d             1w. TMata  -ats             (wI= 3Mg) ad (Qmtarlv Dlc d Saoc
(d4m     S__)-  kgj hte   (m                                   W- SU2Ol. 1981). Vol. IM:   azll ml1          a
-.        :       M N             D MCl 1 1 -  L, 195). VL. l: Ses;sll 4 Sx.



- 41 -                        ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
ECONOMIC PLANNING
P.O. BOX M.40
ACCRA
February 21, 1986
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Subject: Industrial Goals and Policies
1.        I am writing in connection with the proposed Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit to inform the International Development Association about
the industrial development goals being pursued and the policy reform
actions which the Government has already taken or proposes to take to
reform Ghana's industrial sector. The ultimate goal is to restructure the
industrial sector so as to concentrate on those activities that are the
most viable and sustainable over time, that are fell integrated with the
domestic economy, and that can produce goods at competitive prices for both
Ghanaian consumers and export markets. The Government's specific indus-
trial development objectives and the broad strategy for achieving them are
described in detail in a Statement of Industrial Policy which has been
publicly issued; the Statement is attached to this letter for your informa-
tion.
2.        As you know this gover,ment launched an Economic Recovery Pro-
grame (ERP) in 1983 to revive a deteriorating economy. The first phase of
the ERP is now coming to a close and as a result of it the economy, and
living standards of people, have begun to show improvements. In order to
strengthen and build further upon the successes of the first phase
(1983-85) of ERP the Government has formulated a second phase covering a
three-year (1986-88) period. The issues to be dealt with under the second
phase of ERP are similar to those addressed under the first phase, but the
emphasis will be to shift th. leading edge of policy reform from macro-
economic to sectoral concerns to lay the basis for renewed, vigorous and
efficient growth in the key sectors of agriculture, energy, industry,
education and health. Against this background, the Government is asking
the International Development Association to grant a credit to support the
recovery and the development of an efficient industrial sector.
3.        The report presented by the Government to the Consultative Group,
in November 1985, describes the main features of the second phase of the
ERP covering the period 1986-88. In this letter, I will describe in more
detail the Government's objectives and actions taken or planned in five
major areas of policy reforms, critical to the restructuring of the indus-
trial sector: promotion of non-traditional exports, the import regime,
industrial public enterprises, public investment in the industrial sector,
and industrial finance.
Export Promotion
4.        One of the fundamental objectives of the ERP is to increase
exports from all sectors at an average rate of about 12% per annum in



- 42 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 15
current dollars. The industrial sector will be expected to reorient itself
toward foreign markets so as to ensure its sustained growth, contribute to
increased exports and thus earn a larger share of its import requirements.
Exchange rate adjustments and automatic retention of a portion of export
earnings constitute the main elements of the export incentive package
currently in place. The Government, on January 11, 1986, devalued from
¢ 60 - $1 to ¢ 90 - $1. This has improved the profitability of exports
both in absolute terms and relative to domestic sales. The flexible
exchange rate policy already in effect will continue with a view to ensur-
ing the high and stable profitability of the export sector.
5.        In order to overcome procedural impediments to exports, the
Government is actively considering measures (as set out in the attached
Statement of Industrial Policy) in close consultation with the Association.
These include a system whereby exporters will no longer need to be ins-
cribed on a list of registered exporters before beginning to export; and
the scrapping of the current requirement of export permits for all exports,
except for those few items temporarily placed on an export reserve list in
light of a set of criteria. The documents required by Government for most
exports (for customs clerarance, foreign exchange administration and statis-
tical purposes) will be simplified.
6.        To provide further incentives to exporters of non-traditional
products, the Government is also considering two ways of improving the
foreign exchange retention scheme: first, by increasing the percentage of
earnings to be retained by exporters of non-traditional products from 20Z
to 25Z; and secondly, by increasing the flexibility of utilization of
retentions. Efforts will continue to administer the scheme efficiently and
flexibly. The customs duty drawback scheme for imports for exporters will
be reinstated on an automatic basis. A temperary duty-free admission of
imports under tolling arrangements and other steps to promote tolling are
under consideration. To assist exporters with credit needs between the
time of shipment of goods and receipt of the foreign exchange proceeds, the
Bank of Ghana is considering the introduction of a rediscounting facility.
7.        Finally, the Ghana Export Promotion Council will be given appro-
priate autonomy. standing, composition, staff, and budget. It would be
responsible for monitoring the improvement of the policy and administrative
framework for exports, bringing together the Government and exporters,
carrying out needed studies of export potential and problems, and export
promotion activities in Ghana and abroad. Decisions on measures listed in
paras 5 to 7 are expected to be taken by some time in April 1986, and the
Government intends to have them in place by the end of 1986.
Import Regime
8.        The Government's medium term objective is to provide adequate but
not excessive protection to the domestic industry. This objective would be
pursued through a combination of appropriate exchange rate, tariff, and
trade policies. The tariff structure was simplified in 1983 so that most
industry-related goods are subject to a 30% tariff and a few 25%. This



- 43 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 15
tariff structure provides a relatively uniform pattern of protection.
However, the protection afforded by import quotas and the strict allocation
of foreign exchange in many cases exceeds that of the tariff structure.
The Government has taken substantial steps to adjust the exchange rate and
as a result the real effective exchange rate has depreciated by over 802
during the 1983-85 period. In January 1986 the Government further adjusted
the exchange rate from e 60 - US$1.00 to 0 90 - US1.100. This would effec-
tively raise the nominal price of imported industrial inputs by 70 percent,
encourage greater utilization of domestic inputs, help curb the excessive
demand for imports thereby facilitating import liberalization, and improve
the international competitiveness of the industrial sector. The Government
intends to keep the exchange rate under review and make further adjustments
as necessary to achieve policy goals. The Government is currently consult-
ing with the International Monetary Fund on the pace and manner of further
exchange rate adjustments.
9.        The Government is aware of the limitations of the present system
of import licensing which determines administratively the uses of foreign
exchange and creates opportunities for rent-seeking activities. While a
number of efforts have been made to streamline import licensing procedures
and further measures are contemplated in this area, the Government has
already taken two significant steps in the area of import liberalization.
First, under the Special Unnumbered Licenses (SUL) system, which was
reactivated under the recovery program, it is possible to import a wide
range of goods when the importer arranges his own foreign exchange (from
remittances and other sources). The SUL system is useful in three
respects: (a) it eases the overall supply situation by making available a
wide range of consumer goods for which, under a tight foreign exchange
situation, it would not be possible to allocate foreign exchange from
official sources; (b) it places a ceiling on the level of effective protec-
tion afforded by quantitative restrictions to local producers by making
available competing imports at the parallel market exchange rate plus SUL
duties; (c) it provides an alternative means for efficient producers to
procure additional inputs or spares beyond the amounts available through
the import licensing regime. Full realization of these benefits was
somewhat hampered by the requirement that only goods appearing on a list
specified by the Ministry of Trade could be imported under SULs, and by the
fact that special taxes on SULs made no distinction between imports of
inputs and spares for domestic manufacture and imports of consumer goods.
The Government has, therefore, recently further liberalized imports under
SULs by shifting from a positive to a small negative list. Further, in
order to encourage the use of SULs for imports of industrial raw materials
and spares, the Government has agreed to make taxes and special charges on
SUL imports of these inputs by registered industrial enterprises eligible
for waivers and credits on the same basis as for ordinary imports of
inputs. Second, it has introduced export retention scheme to enable
exporters to meet their foreign exchange needs. Urgent consideration is
now being given to increasing the percentage of earnings retained and
further liberalization of the use of these retention accounts (see para. 6
above).



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 15
10.       While these measures have already introduced a significant degree
of import liberalization, the substantial progress already made towards a
realistic exchange rate and the further progress planned will enable over
time a gradual integration of these various foreign exchange markets. In
the short term, however, it becomes important to further liberalize imports
for the productive sectors of the economy. With this in view a Working
Group has been established that is charged with the task of developing
detailed alternative proposals for easing restrictions on inputs for
industry and other key sectors in a phased manner, taking into account the
progress already made in this direction and the continuing s.evere foreign
exchange constraints facing the country. The Group has been asked to
submit its report by end June 1986. If the Group is to meet this deadline
it may be necessary to ask the Association to provide some technical
assistance to the work of the Group. The Working Group's report will be
discussed with the Association, and subject to agreament with the Associa-
tion, it is Government's intention to launch the first phase of an import
liberalization program at the beginning of 1987.
Industrial Public Enterprises
I1.       The Government is currently reviewing a report (prepared with
UNDP and World Bank support) on reform and restructuring of state-owned
enterprises (SOE). During the 1986-88 period the Government intends to
restructure the SOE sector, through institutional restructuring, management
reform, selective rehabilitation, and reducing the role of the state in
selected SOEs through encouraging joint ventures and divestiture. An
action plan is being drawn up by a Task Force of the Government and two
sub-committees have been established to pay particular attention to the
issues of labor deployment and redundancy and to the planning or the
selected divestiture of state shareholdings. Given the large number of
SOEs in the industrial sector, their restructuring would be a major compo-
nent of the action plan.
12.       The Statement of Industrial Policy sets out clearly the Govern-
ment's objectives.  In industry the overall strategy aims at limitiag the
direct participation of the state to critical areas in which there is a gap
in the availability of private investment or some other exceptional justi-
fication ior direct public intervention. Industrial SOEs will be expected
to operate on a commercial basis and not depend on Government financing.
13.       The SOE task force has recommended far-reaching changes to
Government which are in process of consideration and decision. The propos-
als include the division of SOEs into three groups: for retention, joint
ventures and full divestiture or liquidation. The Government has already
decided that a number of SOEs are candidates for turning into joint
ventures, such as Bonsa Tire, Tema Food Complex, State Construction Company
and Ghana Sugar Estates among others.  Since divestiture requires
appropriate machinery and will take time even if successful, these
arrangements are being set in motion, while transitional measures
(including any necessary recapitalization) for joint venture candidates are



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 15
also being pursued. The Government has further requested in-depth studies
of a number of industrial SOEs.
14.       The Hinistry of Industries, Science and Technology will as an
input into the overall reform rationalize selected industrial SOEs by
grouping all those in a single sector into one strengthened enterprise.
There is and will be no barrier to the entry of private firms into these
sectors. The rationalization will completely transform the present struc-
ture of industrial SOE groupings (GIHOC, NIC, GEA and Ghamot) and result in
an industrial SOE subsector significantly smaller than its present size.
The Government will exchange views with the Association
regarding rationalization programs and actions for these and other remain-
ing SOEs. The rationalization will be completed within 1986. To carry out
some of the subsector (and enterprise) studies needed to prepare the
rationalization, we plan to use funds provided under the ISAC.
15.       The sector enterprises will themselves be treated like all other
SOEs in line with the Government's criteria, for retention, joint ventures,
liquidation, etc. The industrial SOEs will be placed on one of the three
lists referred to above. Apart from the regrouping mentioned above, the
Government does not intend to create new industrial SOEs in the 1986-88
period.
Public Investment Program in Industry
16.       Pending a restructuring of the industrial public enterprises the
Government has decided that during the 1986-88 period the public investment
in such enterprises should be limited to the most urgent rehabilitation
component which is financially and economically justified and for which the
necessary foreign exchange to make the full use of rehabilitated capacity
is likely to be available within the constraints of the annual import
program for industry. The Government has recently completed a review of
large new and on-going projects and formulated a core program of capital
expenditures for priority consideration in the period 1986-88. It has been
decided that the share of industrial public enterprises in this program
would not exceed 2.57 billion cedis (in constant 1985 prices) during the
period 1986-88. The Government will consult with the Association on the
specific industrial projects included in the public investment program
during the 1986-88 period. Furthermore, these projects will be expected to
show a satisfactory economic as well as financial rate of return as a
criterion for proceeding with rehabilitation.
Industrial Finance
17.       The Government is fully aware that liquidity and creditworthiness
constraints have hampered production responses in the industrial as well as
some other productive sectors of the economy. Therefore, the Government
has decided to introduce a deferred debit scheme for import financing.
Under this scheme the Bank of Ghana will, upon the request of a bank at the
time of opening a letter of credit for import, defer the debit to the
requesting bank's account as follows: 60 percent of the cedi equivalent of



- 46 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 15
c.i.f. value of imports would be debited six months after release of
documents and the balance 40 percent would be debited three months later
(i.e. nine months after release of documents). The banks will in turn
extend short-term loans to concerned importing enterprises. It is expected
that this scheme will considerably ease the liquidity position of
enterprises who at present are expected to pay 100 percent of the cedi
equivalent before obtaining release of documents. The Government will
continue to keep a close watch on the import financing situation and will
take measures as needed to adjust this scheme and/or take additional
measures. With a view to encouraging firms to revalue their assets,
thereby improving their creditworthiness, the Government has decided to
exempt then from payment of stamp or other taxes on revaluations. The
exemptions would be allowed until the end of 1987. The Government intends
to continue its policy of maintaining real positive interest rates on
deposits and loans and to attempt to ensure an adequate flow of credit to
the private sector.
---   (^DR. KWESI BOTHCEWEY)



- 47 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 7 of 15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
GOVERNMENT STATEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL POLICY
INTRODUCTION
1.        Ghana's potential for industrial development is clear; she has a
rich mineral, forest and agricultural endowment; her manpower is compara-
tively well trained; wages are low; and she has a long commercial and
entrepreneurial tradition. The industrialization drive of the 1960s built
up Ghana's industrial capacity to one of the largest in sub-Saharan Africa.
After the mid-70s, however, industrial production was severely affected by
the general economic decline resulting in foreign exchange shortage and
import starvation. Revitalization of the industrial sector can now play an
important role in the continuing progress of the Economic Recovery Pro-
gramme (ERP) and in returning the economy to a path of dynamic growth and
diversification. Expansion of industrial production will provide a logical
complement to the ERP's emphasis to date on improving the incentives to
agricultural producers, who are expected to provide an increasing share
both of inputs to industry and of demand for its output.
2.        The principal objective for the future is to streamline Ghana's
industrial capacity to concentrate on those activities that are the most
viable and sustainable over time, that are well integrated with the domes-
tic economy, and that can produce goods at competitive prices for both
Ghanaian consumers. and export markets. This objective will be pursued
through policies wshich provide adequate incentives for efficient use of
resources in processing, export and real competitive import-substitution
industries and which enable the most productive firms to compete success-
fully for scarce but increasing amounts of financial and foreign exchange
resources. Manufacturing industries will be given adequate protection and
investment incentives to promote their competitiveness and efficiency. A
mixed economy approach will continue to be used, in which the State pro-
vides necessary infrastructural services and favorable business climate and
invests or participates in certain strategic industries, while looking to
the private sector to play an increasingly dynamic role in expanding
industrial output and utilizing Ghana's resource base. Foreign investors
will have an important role to play in providing capital, managerial and
technical know-how in partnership with Ghanaians.
BACKGROUND
3.        Industry has gone through two phases of growth and then decline.
At independence, industrial production was relatively small and consisted
mainly of extraction and processing for export plus a few consumer goods,
and it was dominated by foreign ownership. A strategy of vigorous indus-
trial promotion and public sector investment was successful in its objec-
tives of rapidly increasing the capacity to produce at home what was
previously imported and in diversifying the economy. In the 1960s, manu-
facturing output tripled to reach 13Z of GDP, the sector's employment
doubled, and production became increasingly diversified into intermediate



- 48 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 8 of 15
and capital goods. By the late 1970s, however, it became apparent that the
phase of easy import-substitution and growth had ended and that the costs
of domestic industrial production were high. Capacity utilization and
production fell as foreign exchange for inputs became increasingly scarce
under general economic decline. Exports and agricultural production
neglected under past policies could no longer provide the resources needed
to sustain industrial growth. High protection had led to excessive expan-
sion of industrial capacity in activities that were highly dependent on
imported inputs and that did not use scarce resources efficiently or
generate additional export earnings. Not only did most state-owned enter-
prises fail to generate profits for new investment, or even for working
capital needs; many represented a drain on the Government budget or on
those enterprises that were profitable.
4.        The disappointing performance of industry has been due partly to
the inconsistencies between objectives and the policy framework and partly
to the lack of an integrated approach to link industrial development with
the country's resources and broad consumption needs. The emphasis of the
Economic Recovery Programme to date has been, and will continue to be, to
correct the fundamental economic distortions and imbalances so that the
incentives that guide industrial producers will be consistent with these
objectives. In addition, sector-specific measures will be used to assist
industries in adjusting to the changing environment, including credit and
financial assistance schemes, services through technical and management
support institutions, export promotion and special attention to small-scale
industries.
5.        Although industrial production today is relatively low, the
situation is quite different from that at independence. Substantial
capacity exists, some of it potentially efficient, but some of it unable to
produce competitively or even to save foreign exchange. Foreign firms no
longer dominate the sector, and there is a much greater number of capable
and innovative Ghanaian industrialists with the ability to respond to
favorable opportunities. This means that the primary objective for Govern-
ment policy today is no longer capacity creation but restructuring and
rationalizing existing capacity so that resources are concentrated in the
most productive industries in which Ghana has a comparative advantage.
This requires, on the one hand, re-examination of public industrial hold-
ings and, on the other, establishment of incentives that favor relative
expansion of the most efficient producer (whether public or private),
especially in small-scale activities that process local raw materials and
provide goods in rural areas.  Another difference is that industry's
full-capacity imported input requirements would absorb more foreign ex-
change than is likely to be available in the foreseeable future, while it
contributes little by way of exports or additional value added to the
nation's exportable raw materials. This means that industry must be
re-oriented to seek more local input supplies and foreign markets.



- 49 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 9 of 15
RECENT POLICY MEASURES
6.        Major steps toward policy reform were taken initially in the
context of the ERP, adopted in 1983. The emphasis to date has been on
exchange rate adjustment, monetary and fiscal responsibility, and pricing
policy reforms in order to bring the balance of payments, budget deficit
and inflation under control and to improve incentives for producers,
especially in agriculture. Although long overdue, many of these adjust-
ments meant initial economic hardships and were difficult to take. The
initial response of the economy was slow, but the Government persisted with
its comprehensive program and with measures to improve the economy's supply
responsiveness and to translate subsequent increases into higher incomes
for workers and farmers. Special attention has been paid to transport in
order to facilitate the supply response, which was particularly encouraging
in 1984. Wage adjustments and agricultural price increases have provided a
more adequate floor for the lowest-paid workers and helped to restore
incentives for more productive work. Financial policy reforms have
focussed on moving toward positive real interest rates through a combina-
tion of gradually rising nominal rates and falling inflation (from 123% in
1983 to 40% in 1984 and 12% in 1985). The Government has also taken a
number of steps to enhance its ability to manage and develop the overall
policy reform process. The National Economic Commission brings together a
range of view points to advise on overall policy direction and change,
while the Tripartite Committee brings together labor, employers and the
Government where wage and price issues are concerned. Foreign exchange
budgeting and licensing are coordinated through a central committee, the
Import Programming and Monitoring Committee. Reviews have been initiated
of the entire public investment program, as a basis for the design of
reform measures. Taken as a whole, these reform measures have gone a long
way toward establishing a sound policy environment for industrial recovery
and for integrating industrial strategy with the overall process of eco-
nomic reform and recovery.
OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
7.        The main objectives of industrial policy during the second phase
of the ERP are to:
(a) increase industrial output through greater use of existin6
installed capacity;
(b) improve supplies of essential goods (e.g. food, textiles, mat-
ches, cutlasses, etc.) to meet the integration demands of eco-
nomic activities in the priority sectors of the economy;
(c) remove production bottlenecks in the most efficient industries
and achieve significant cost reductions in others that are
potentially viable through selectlve rehabilitation;



- 50 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 10 of 15
(d) develop economically viable linkages among local industries and
between key economic sectors (e.g. agriculture, construction,
transport, health, education);
(e) raise export earnings of non-traditional manufactured goods.
8.        The Government's strategy is motivated by consideration of both
efficiency and equity. The need to boost economic recovery by reviving
industrial production and growth in the face of severe resource constraints
demands that resources be used in the most efficient way possible to meet
the needs of the Ghanaian public at competitive prices and to generate
additional foreign exchange. Equity requires that this task be approached
in a way that gives producers an opportunity to adapt from the past -
highly protective policy environment - to a regime where success depends on
being efficient and productive. These considerations can best be
accommodated through an approach that provides appropriate incentives and
opportunities on a consistent basis across all industries.
9.        In the short term the strategy is to make available additional
resources to the more efficient priority industries which can make immedi-
ate supply response. The medium-term strategy would be to rehabilitate the
potentially viable and efficient industries and to develop the local raw
material base for industries, taking account of the country's comparative
advantage, in order to reduce their dependence on foreign inputs.
10.       In the long term, the o  ective is to achieve an industrial
structure that is more closely liued to domestic inputs and needs, that
can provide a higher share of its own foreign exchange requirements, and
that can sustain a rate of growth of output and employment above the
economy-wide average but in balance with the rate of growth of resources
and demand generated by agricultural development. This means phasing out
unviable excess capacity that constitutes a drain on resources and cannot
supply the Ghanaian market competitively, continuing the process of reha-
bilitation in the most viable existing plants: and investing in new indus-
tries that can realize Ghana's comparative advantage and export potential.
These objectives will be supported by establishing a policy environment in
which success depends on efficient use of scarce resources and in which
incentives are balanced between sectors and between growth and employment
objectives.
ACTION PROGRAM
11.       The industrial objectives and strategy described above will be
pursued through the following major policy measures (discussed below):
-    phased reform of production incentives to promote more efficient,
competitive, resource-based, labor-intensive and export-oriented
industrial production, while giving firms an opportunity to
adjust;



- 51 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 11 of 15
greater access by efficient producers to imported industrial
inputs and spare parts while progressively reducing administra-
tive decisions and allocations;
export incentive and promotion efforts to provide a return to
exports that is equivalent to that on domestic sales and to
compensate for disadvantages and costs that would reduce export
competitiveness;
a positive climate for industrial operation and investment,
including reasonable protection and investment incentives that
are relatively uniformly and automatically available across broad
classes of priority activities and that provide adequately for
small-scale and employment-oriented activities;
more limited direct public sector participation aimed at making
the most effective use of scarce public, financial and managerial
resources;
financial reforms to increase the ability of the financial sector
to hake credit available for industrial adjustment and rehabili-
tation, and to provide incentives for more labor-intensive
techniques.
POLICY FRAMEhORK
REVIEW OF TRADE AND EXCHANGE RATE POLICY
12.       To enable the most productive, highest-priority industries to
expand rapidly in response to improved incentives, the Government intends
to give them greater access to imported inputs, not only materials but also
spare parts, to repair broken-down equipment. The Government has already
facilitated the ability of exporters to meet their individual import needs
through foreign exchange retention, and will take further steps as neces-
sary to ensure that export production is not impeded by lack of access to
foreign exchange. It is investigating ways of giving other efficient
producers greater access to foreign exchange without going through the
licensing system and it is seeking additional external funding to support
the process of easing quantitative restrictions. During the transitionaL
period, such measures will be linked to the imposition of temporary finan-
cial charges to keep demand for additional industrial imports within
manageable bounds. In order to give firms greater flexibility in breaking
production bottlenecks by repairing and maintaining equipment, they will be
permitted to use a larger portion of their import license allocations for
spare parts and minor replacement equipment.
13.       The Government is considering the need for introducing special
measures during the transition period of exchange rate adjustment to
maintain reasonable protection of local industries and to ensure efficient
industrial operation. In order to simplify the importation of industrial



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 12 of 15
inputs and phasing out quantitative trade restriction, the Government has
commissioned a study to examine the scope for the use of fiscal and other
measures to eliminate the excess increase of imports that would otherwise
result from pent-up demand and to provide more adequate incentives for
non-traditional export industries.
14.       A major plank of trade policy will be exchange rate policy itself
with the overall objectives of ensuring:
(a) increase in efficient production;
(b) tapping economic rents;
(c) directing remittances through official channels.
Of particular concern is the need to ensure the high and stable profitabil-
ity of export sector activity as well as evolving a gradual reduction in
the dependence on quantitative restrictions over 1986-88.
EXPORT PROMOTIOH
15.       Exchange rate adjustments over the last three years have dramati-
cally improved prospects for exporters, and this process will be continued.
Retention of a portion of export earnings will be maintained as long as
needed to facilitate exporters' ability to meet their import requirements
and respond to improved incentives. In order to accelerate the expansion
of export earnings, which are critical to relieve constraints on the rest
of the economy, additional measures are being taken, or considered, to
ensure that exporters do not pay taxes on inputs into export production, to
compensate for the extra costs of developing export markets, and to make
export production more attractive relative to sales on the domestic market.
Efforts are also being made to strengthen the activities of the Export
Promotion Council and to increase the availability of financing for export-
ers through the Bank of Ghana.
A6.       The policy framework for promoting exports will combine needed
institutional reforms as well as adequate price incentiver. The institu-
tional reforms include:
(a) ensuring that the credit requirements of the export sector are
adequately met;
(b) building a marketing infrastructure for non-traditional exports;
(c) simplifying procedures related to exports, and instituting a
negative list of exports (such as logs for local processing,
endangered species, etc.) in place of the current requirement of
export permits for all potential exports;
(d) streamlining and, as necesiary, increasing the flexibility of use
of the export retention scheme.



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 13 of 15
INDIRECT TAX SYSTEM
17.       The Government is also examining the indirect tax system as a
basis for any necessary reforms to make it more consistent with the system
of protectioni for local industries and with other transitional measures as
well as with the objectives of simplicity and improved revenue collection.
PRICING rOLICY
18.       The ability of firms to cover changing costs of production and to
compete freely on the market has already been facilitated by permitting
producers of most products to set their prices subject to monitoring,
rather than advance review and approval, by the Prices and Incomes Board.
Currently, administered prices exist for only eleven (11) manufactured and
imported products.
INVESTMENT CLIMATE
19.       In recently revising and re-issuing the Investment Code, the
Government has demonstrated its commdtment to maintaining a stable, open
economy and to encouraging increased participation by both domestic and
foreign private investors in Ghana's economic recovery. The Code has
specified a wide range of activities in agriculture, industry, tourism and
real estate development as priority areas. Guarantees are provided against
expropriation and for repatriation of foreign capital and dividends.
Provision is also made for arbitration in case of investment disputes.
Fiscal incentives for priority industries (i.e. those that export, use
local materials, or produce agricultural inputs) include exemption from
payment of duties on imported essential plant, equipment and accessories;
attractive investment and depreciation allowances; rebates on income tax
and on Social Security Contributions on Ghanaian employees over the first
one hundred; permission to maintain external accounts in which 252 of
foreign exchange earnings may be retained for import of equipment and
inputs and for payment of dividends and remittances abroad.
20.       The Ghana Investments Centre is being strengthened to implement
this process, and it will issue guidelines designed to facilitate applica-
tion for benefits and to ensure that they are applied to investments that
offer a high rate of return to the economy. Tn addition to the general
policy reforms of the ERP, the Government will continue to take steps to
enhance. the business climate through consultation, improved worker-
management relations, and encouragement of positive worker attitudes toward
increasing productivity.
PUBLIC SECTOR ROLE
21.       The Government is currently undertaking a thorough review of both
the state enterprises system and its investment program based on a recent
World Bank financed study and other reports in order to carry out an
appropriate reform, a phased rehabilitation of selected state enterprises,
and institutional restructuring of the public sector including the possible



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 14 of 15
phasing out of non-viable enterprises, and improving the monitoring and
evaluation mechanism. The overall strategy would aim at limiting the
direct participation of the State in industry to critical areas in which
there is a gap in the availability of private investment or some other
exceptional justification for direct public intervention. Publicly-owned
firms will be expected financially to stand on their own feet and operate
as commercial entities and to contribute positively to public savings.
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
22.       In order to enhance their efficiency and competitiveness, indus-
tries will be encouraged to strengthen and improve their technical and
management capabilities by intensifying their training programs for employ-
ees at all levels and where necessary seeking technical assistance and
collaborative arrangements with appropriate foreign organizations.
23.       The training institutions, especially the Management Development
and Productivity Institute and the Ghana Institute of Management and Public
Administration, and local consulting institutions will be strengthened and
assisted to cope with the increased demand for their services.
FINANCIAL SYSTEM
LEVEL AND STRUCTURE OF INTEREST RATES
24.       Interest rates have been steadily increased and by September 1985
the 12-month deposit rate was raised to 18  while the maxi.mum lending rate
rose to 23%. With inflation rate expected to be below 25% for 1985, the
goal of achieving positive real interest rates on deposits have been
achieved ahead of the target date.
25.       However, in addition to maintaining positive real interest rates
on savings deposits, a major reform of the financial system is planned,
which, depending on the findings and recommendations of a joint Government
of Ghana/World Bank/IMF review of the financial system, will seek to ensure
that the critical national objective of generating productive activity is
attained. In particular, the joint review will focus on a broad range of
issues including:
(a) the provision of adequate levels of credit for the productive
sector;
(b) creditworthiness;
(c) credit allocation;
(d) the development of a capital market; and
(e) institutional reforms.



- 55 -
ANNEX VI
Attachment
Page 15 of 15
CONCLUSION
26.       The Government's objectives for industrialization remain to make
the most effective use of our resources for economic growth, to build up
our body of knowledge, techniques and skills, to make us more self-
sufficient, and to push toward our economic independence. A:hievement of
these goals requires a partnership between the public and private sectors,
domestic and foreign investors, workers and entrepreneurs, in which each
party contributes in the way it can be most productive. The Government
will take action where private activity cannot meet the objectives, but
will also withdraw from direct intervention where it is not needed or is
inefficient. Incentives are available to foreign as well as domestic
investors, with the expectation that they will work with Ghanainas to
transfer the benefits of their technology, know-how and experience.
Increased production is being encouraged through incentives that enable
entrepreneurs to gain profits and workers to earn higher wages as their
productivity increases. The strategy for industrial recovery outlined in
this is designed to result in an industrial structure that uses its
capacity more fully, eliminates unviable excess capacity, makes greater use
of local raw materials, earns a larger share of its foreign exchange
requirements, stimulates the rest of the economy through relatively rapid
output growth, supplies Ghanaian consumers' needs at competitive prices,
and offers growing income and employment opportunities in villages as well
as in the urban centers.



- 56 -
ANNEX VII
GANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS COMPONENT
A. Objectives of Import Program
1.        The main objectives of the annual import program for industry
would be to (a) ensure that industrial activities most central to the
Economic Recovery Program recei-re a minimum level of foreign exchange
resources quickly and with certainty; (b) gradually increase the size of
the program to provide industrial inputs to raise utilization of existing
efficient industrial production capacity; and (c) make available the
foreign exchange needed for the most critical rehabilitation.
B. Governing Principles for Size and Composition of Annual Program for
Industry
2.        Normally, the absolute size of the annual import program
(industry) would allow for an increase, in real terms, over and above the
funds provided for the preceding year's approved annual program for the
industry. Further the funds provided under ISAC would be incremental to
the funds normally provided to industry by the Government. To this end,
the provision of funds from the Government's own resources would be at
least equal to either the proportion or the average amount allocated in the
preceding year's annual import program for industry.
3.        Import allocations shall be made so as to enable the private
sector to play an increasingly dynamic role in industrial recovery.
4.        The annual import program for industry would continue to show
overall sources of finance, it would distinguish between materials/spare
parts and capital goods. Special provisions would continue to be made to
accomodate the input requirements of non-traditional exporters.
5.        Those enterprises which receive rehabilitation loans under the
proposed ISAC or from other sources would be allocated foreign exchange, on
a priority basis, for import of raw materials needed to use rehabilitated
capacity.
6.        Enterprises would be allowed to use a reasonable amount of annual
import allocations for import of spare parts and minor replacement equip-
ment.



- 57 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION COMPONENT
A. Objectives of Rehabilitation/Restructuring
1.        The term Rehabilitation Investment Proposal (RP) refers to an
investment which proposes rehabilitation and/or restructuring of an enter-
prise with one or more of the following objectives:
(a) remove bottlenecks that prevent the enterprise from increas-
ing its production to make greater use of its installed
capacity;
(b) replace equipment ahich is on the verge of breakdown and if
not replaced, would lead to decline in existing production
levels;
(c) incre.ise productivity and alter the structure of costs to
make the enterprise competitive at border prices;
(d) change the product mix to meet export demand or specific
domestic market needs;
(e) make greater use of available domestic materials to replace
imported inputs;
(f) enable existing enterprises to adapt to changing incentives
policy framework througt (a) to (e) above; and
(g) assist in financial, organizational and/or managerial
restructuring, if necessary to achieve (a) to (f) above.
B. Eligibility Criteria
2.        The purpose of a RP should be one or more of the items listed in
para. I above.
3.        In determining eligibility for granting a sub-loan under this
component the participating banks would give priority to the RPs that
satisfy the following criteria:
(a) the RP should remove a bottleneck that is constraining the
enterprise's ability to increase production or otherwise
reduce unit production costs at current levels of raw
material availability;



- 58 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 3
(b)  the enterprise should have been in production for at least
the preceding two years;
(c) the enterpcise should be in a position to obtain adequate
raw material inputs if its capacity is rehabilitated;
(d) the enterprise should demonstrate that at least half of its
inputs are based on domestic raw materials or that the
rehabilitation project would enable this to be achieved or
that it is a highly labor-intensive operation;
(e) the product whose output will increase as a result of the RP
should be one or more of the following: (i) a basic con-
sumer good, especially one consumed in rural areas; (ii) an
intermediate good used in the production or packaging
process of other industries; (iii) a revenue earner subject
to special excise or other taxes; or (iv) a product that the
firm has exported within the past three years or that it
could export as a result of the rehabilitation; and
'f) only those RPs which are included in the approved public
investment program, 1986-88, of the Government would be
eligible.
C. Financial Evaluation Criteria
4.        All RP requests that meet one or more of the objectives and
satisfy the preliminary eligibility criteria shall be evaluated in terms of
their ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet loan repayment and
other debt obligations. For major requests of more than US$100,000, this
shall be taken to require calculation of the financial rate of return
which must exceed the cost of borrowing.
D. Economic Evaluation Criteria
5.        All RP requests of more than US$100,000 would be subject to a
detailed economic evaluation. This evaluation should cover the economic
life of the rehabilitation investment and should include the cost of
additional replacement expenditures that may be required during this
period. Long-run economic viability will be evaluated by the economic rate
of return to the rehabilitated operation using border and shadow prices to
measure benefits and costs. RPs will be approved only if they can
demonstrate that the economic rate of return exceeds 15 percent.
6.        Smaller RP requests (below US$100,000) should be evaluated by the
measures described in the preceding paragraph if possible, but may satisfy
the criteria in para 5 through alternative measures if data are
insufficient to calculate rates of return. Economic viability may be shown
by demonstrating that the unit cost of production with rehabilitation is
below the c.i.f. price plus applicable import duties for the equivalent
product.



- 59 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 3
E. Onlending Terms and Conditions
7.        The interest rate on loans by PBs to beneficiary enterprises will
be the rate normally applicable (currently 20-23 percent) on such loans. These
rates would be changed in case overall rates are changed. The Government
has a policy of maintaiLing positive real interest rates. Given the
inflation rate of about 12 percent in 1985 the current lending interest
rates of 20-23 percent are positive in real terms.
8.        The Bank of Ghana (BOG) would be allowed an administration fee
equivalent to 2 percent of loan amount outstanding and the participating
Bank (PB) would be allowed 5 percent interest spread to c-ver their admin-
istrative costs and financial risk. After allowing for the above spreads
the Bank of Ghana would pay to the Government the remaining spread on IDA
funds used under the rehabilitation component.
9.        A commitment fee of one percent per annum on the undisbursed
balance of each loan (accruing 30 days from date of BOG's commitment),
would be charged by BOG to the PBs, who in turn will pass this cost on to
the beneficiary enterprises. Each commitment fee shall be shared on the
following basis: 25 percent to the PB, 25 percent to the BOG, and
50 percent to the Government.
10.       The beneficiary enterprises would assume the foreign exchange
risk. In the alternative they may insure themselves against the risk by
paying a one-time fee to the BOG. The amount of the fee would be
established by the Bank of Ghana taking into account the extent of cedi
overvaluation and likely exchange rate movements.
11.       Loans to enterprises would be based upon projected cash flows and
debt servicing capacity of the beneficiary enterprises, with maturities not
exceeding 12 years (inclusive of grace periods of up to 5 years).
12.       Repayment schedules from PBs to BOG would be on composite amorti-
zation schedule basis reflecting the aggregate repayment schedule of the
loans to enterprises. Reschedulings would be allowed only with the prior
approval of BOG.
13.       Maximum loan size using ISAC proceeds would be US$1.0 million.
Larger projects would be expected to attract/solicit cofinancing on an
individual project basis.
14.       The first five RP proposals would be submitted to the Association
for review prior to approval by Bank of Ghana and PB. Following review of
the first five RP appraisal reports the Association will establish suitable
free limits. In respect of free limit sub-loans the Bank of Ghana would
decide whether the proposal should be refinanced using ISAC proceeds.



- 60 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 5
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
A. Introduction
1.        The following institutions would participate and receive funds
under the proposed institutional strengthening component: the Bank of
Ghana, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, the Ministry of
Industries, Science and Technology, the Central Bureau of Statistics, the
Ghana Standards Board, and the Food Research Institute. A brief descrip-
tion of the respective role of these institutions aud the activities to be
undertaken to strengthen them, under the proposed ISAC, is given in this
Annex together with the summary cost estimates and proposed financing plan.
B. The Bank of Ghana (BOG)
2.        BOG would be responsible for implementing the following tasks
under the ISAC: (a) administration, including disbursements of ISAC funds
for financing import of industrial inputs; (b) administration, including
approval and disbursement of sub-loans for rehabilitation of industrial
enterprises; (c) organization of training programs for staff of local
institutions in project analysis and financial restructuring techniques;
and (d) formulation of policy proposals covering export incentives and
simplification of export procedures/regulations for the Government's
consideration.
3.        The above responsibilities would be carried out by the existing
Development Finance Department (DPD) and Foreign Operations Department
(FOD) in the Bank of Ghana. It has been agreed with the management of Bank
of Ghana that the existing staff of these departments would be augmented,
as needed, to handle the increased workload. It has also been agreed that
at least six staff would be assigned before disbursements of ISAC funds
allocated to the rehabilitation component begin.
4.        The technical assistance and training activities to be financed
under the Credit would include: (a) about 56 man-months of advisory/
consulting services to Ci) organize and conduct four basic and four
refresher training courses in project analysis, and two training courses in
financial restructuring techniques; and (ii) assist local banks and Bank of
Ghana staff to carr out economic, financial and technical appraisal of
rehabilitation investment projects submitted for financing under the
industrial rehabilitation component; and (b) about 12 man-months of short-
term consultancy services to help formulate and implement appropriate
export-promotion measures. All training would be conducted in Ghana during
the 1986-88 period and participants would be drawn from local banks,



- 61 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 5
government ministries, local institutes, and businesses. Recruitment of
consultants to conduct the training is underway and signing of contract is
expected by end March 1986.
C. Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP)
5.        MFEP is the main existing organ in the Government for formulation
of economic policies. Within the Ministry's organizational structure the
Planning and Research Division (PRD) has the responsibility for policy
analysis and monitoring. However, PRD is poorly staffed and lacks neces-
sary skills to carry out its expected role. Under the proposed ISAC
technical assistance would be provided to PRD to strengthen it.
6.        It is proposed that the PRD would be strengthened to carry out
the following activities: (a) the regular monitoring of price and income
impacts of exchange rate adjustments; (b) formulation, implementation,
monitoring and adjustment of a phased program of import liberalization;
Ce) monitoring and adjustment of export promotion policy reforms; (d)
adjustment and implementation of the Investment Code; (e) formulation and
implementation of reform of direct and indirect taxes; and (f) collabor-
ation with other ministries on policy matters.
7.        The technical assistance and training activities propose to be
financed under the proposed Credit to help accomplish the above work
program would include: (a) one senior expatriate adviser on trade and
industry planning and policies for 24 months; (b) financial provision for
external courses or in-service postings to train MMEP staff in industrial
incentives analysis and policies other policies affecting industrial
development; (c) about 10 man-months of expatriate and 30 man-months of
local short-term consultancy services to assist the conduct of special
studies on policy issues affecting industry.
D. Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology (MIST)
8.        MIST has the responsibility for formulating and implementing the
industrial adjustment program being supported by the proposed Credit. For
this purpose it would liaise with the MFEP on trade and exchange rate
policy matters, with the Bank of Ghana on industrial financing matters,
with the proposed State Enterprises Commission on rationalization of
industrial public enterprises, and other ministries, as needed, on matters
affecting industrial development e.g. with the Ministry of Agriculture on
production programs for the industrial crops. In the medium-term, MIST's
focus of activities would shift from import licensing (which at present is
one of its principal activities) to indicative planning and monitoring
activities. Specifically, MIST's capabilities in the following areas would
need to be strengthened: policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation,
indicative planning, formulation of subsector development strategies, and
dissemination of information.
9.        As part of the overall efforts of the Government of Ghana to
restructure the public administration system, the MIST intends to carry out



- 62 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 5
a reorganization of its structure and staff. A reorganization plan for the
Ministry has been formulated by the MIST. The technical assistance
requirements to support the reorganization plan have been identified. A
reorganization of MIST would precede the start of technical assistance
activities. MIST is currently benefitting from an UNDP project (UNIDO as
the executing agency) foi industrial planning. The existing UNDP project
would be completely revised to incorporate the agreed technical assistance
activities for the 1986-88 period. The revised UNDP project would be
funded mainly by UNDP. About US$300,000 from the proposed ISAC would be
used to supplement the UNDP funds under a cost sharing arrangement.
10.       The technical assistance and training activities to be financed
with the UNDP and ISAC funds include: (a) senior advisor on industrial
policy analysis and programming for 24 months to provide assistance in
conducting trade and industry policy studies, policy formulation, monitor-
ing policy impact, and providing training to NIST staff in the above areas;
(b) a project appraisal and restructuring advisor for 18 months to assist
the MIST in the formulation, implementation, and monitoring of restructur-
ing plans for industrial public enterprises and selected subsectors; (c) an
industrial statistics advisor for 18 months to assist MIST in establishing
appropriate systems for compiling industrial statistics and producing
periodic monitoring reports; (d) a small scale industries advisor for 12
months to assist the National Board for Small Scale Industries in
formulating and implementing a suitable action plan and program of work;
'e) about 18 man-months of expatriate and about 66 man-months of local
short-term consultancy services to MIST to assist in carrying out the
Ministry's work program; (f) about 40 man-months of fellowships to MIST
staff for training in policy analysis and impact monitoring techniques; and
(g) vehicles and equipment for MIST.
E.   Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS)
11.       The proposed ISAC would include funding for CBS to help carry out
the following aspects of its work program for the period 1986-88;
(a) improve the publication of external trade data by (i) processing the
1983, 1984 in 1986 and 1985 data by June 30, 1987, (ii) establishing a
monthly (rather than annual) processing cycle for data during 1986, and
(iii) instituting additional formats to respond to the identification of
specific output requirements of policy analysis agencies; (b) conduct a
full census of industrial production during 1986-87; (c) improve the
timeliness of quarterly and annual sample survey for industry and presenta-
tion of production indices derived from them; and (d) strengthen the staff
technical capability of the Bureau through training, contract appointments,
etc. To carry out the above work program funds would be provided under the
ISAC for the following: (a) an advisor on industrial census for 12 months;
(b) short-term expatriate consultants to assist in trade and industry
statistics updating; and (c) vehicles and computing equipment. In addition
about 38 man-months of local staff time would be provided to enable comple-
tion of the above tasks.



- 63 -
ANNEX IX
Page 4 of 5
F.   Ghana Standards Board (GSB)
12.       Ghana Standards Board is the main governmental body with respon-
sibility for standardization, quality control, certification and metrology.
The industrial sector relies heavily on the effectiveness of the Board to
monitor and advise on the quality of manufactured products in order to
improve production techniques and increase consumer acceptance of products.
This role is especially important if export markets are to be developed.
Most of the equipment needed for analytical work at the Board has broken
down, some of it beyond repair. To be able to do any meaningful diagnosis,
basic service equipment is needed. Spare parts are needed to rehabilitate
the broken-down equipment. There is also an urgent need for chemicals of
various types to enable staff to undertake analytical work. About
US$276,000 would be made available to GSB out of the proposed ISAC to
purchase necessary laboratory and transport equipment, spare parts, and
essential chemicals.
G.   Food Research Institute (FRI)
13.       Food Research Institute's major objective is to assist food
industries to improve on and diversify their operations. It plays an
important role in assisting domestic suppliers of food crops and industrial
raw materials for processing. Work at the institute has been paralyzed by
the lack of funds fot research, supply of raw materials, spares and replace-
ment equipment - most of the equipment, apparatus, chemicals, etc. are
broken down or depleted. About US$430,000 would be provided from the
proposed ISAC to enable the FRI to purchase the urgently needed equipment
and spare parts to enable it to carry out its functions during the 1986-88
period.



- 64 -
ANNEX IX
Page 5 of 5
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SE?CTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
A. SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Institution                           Foreign      Local        Total
US$ '000
1. Bank of Ghana                               816                       816
2. Ministry of Finance and Economic            468          348          816
Planning
3. Ministry of Industries, Science           1,231          132        1,363
and Technology
4. Central Bureau of Statistics                347           77          424
5. Ghana Standards Board                       230           -           230
6. Food Research Institute                     359           -           359
3,451         557        4,008
Price Contingencies (20%) a/                690          111          801
4,141         668        4,809
B. FINAXIG PLAN KR D   TTIUrI(0AL SDRKlEHlDlE
Sonuce of Fizuxfrng ($'000) b/
_ISC           iC
Instib±kxcn      Consltants  Edp.    FPF    IMP          Govt.  Total Z Dlstrxibtim
1. Bank of Gbaa          923.2                56      -          -      979.2    20.4
2. Ministry of Flnaoe and
FAxmic mx ^dng      445.6      36.0      80      -        417.6   979.2    20.4
3. MInistry of Ihxutries,
Science and Tedmology   110.0    90.0     100   1,335.6 c|  -      1,635.6    34.0
4. Central Bureau of
Statistics          328.2      111.0     48       21.6 cI          508.8    10.5
5. Gana Standar sBoerd     -        276.0     -       -          -      276.0     5.7
6. Food Reseax-rh Institute    -    430.8     -       -          -      430.8     9.0
Total                1,807.0      943.8    284   1,357.2    417.6  4,809.6   100.0
Z Distributi xn       37.6        19.6     6.0   28.0         8.8   100.0
al Based cn wamrl fnternatin.l hiIatin of 7% per nm during the period 1986-89.
bl Irrlndes price av-tirendes.
c/ It is prcposed that the existiTg ENDP projects to these insti±utiOns be exped/revlsed
to indide the acavities proposed izler the IsAC. A cost-sharing    WMEM with tte
IV  project is es .



- 65 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STUDIES COMPONENT
A. Introduction
1.        This component would include studies in the following areas:
(a) policy analysis studies relating to export incentives and procedures,
restructuring of import protection regime, indirect taxes, impact of
adjustment policies on prices and income, and implementation guidelines for
investment code; (b) enterprise level rehabilitation/restructuring plans;
and (c) subsector level economic and marketing information to guide the
rehabilitation restructuring program.
B. Outline Terms of Reference
2.        Study of Export Incentives and Procedures.  The proposed study is
expected to provide the basis for the formulation of proposals for reform-
ing policies and procedures affecting exports. The study will address five
factors that have a bearing on emxport performance: (a) exporters' access
to imported inputs, as well as duty drawback arrangements; (b) compensation
for the overvaluation of the exchange rate and for the higher protection
afforded to import substitution activities; (c) aspects of export finance,
credit guarantee and export insurance; (d) export controls and procedures;
and (e) Government support in identifying export opportunities.
3.        Study to Develop a Phased Program for Import Liberalization.  The
study will involve (a) a review of the present import licensing and foreign
exchange allocation procedures; (b) the measurement of scarcity premia; (c)
an examination of options to raise the cost of imports; (d) comparative
evaluation of import liberalization options; (e) formulation of recommenda-
tions for import liberalization.
4.        Study of Price and Income Effects of Exchange Adjustments.  The
study on price and income effects of recent and potential adjustments in
the cedi value of imports and exports has the primary purpose of providing
the Government with an analysis of likely effects of exchange rate adjust-
ments or other measures to raise the price-of industrial imports, on price
of locally manufactured goods and their implications for incomes.
5.        Study of Indirect Taxes. The purpose of this study is to provide
the Government with the analytical basis for simplification and rational--
ization of the indirect tax system.
6.        Subsector Studies to (a) provide baseline subsector level data to
be updated annually; (b) establish the overall policy framework for restruc-
turing the major subsectors; and (c) generate subsector level economic,



- 66 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
techniL..l, and marketing information to guide the rehabilitation/restruc-
turing process. The role of small-scale enterprises in the restructuring
process would be a particular focus of the studies. The MIST would make
available relevant information from the studies to enterprises planning
rehabilitation/ restructuring, to be used in feasibility studies. The
information would also be made available to the participating banks to help
them in appraising loan requests. The reports would be published and provided
periodically to interested parties.
7.        Enterprise Studies.  Funds would be provided under the ISAC to
carry out studies to prepare restructuring proposals for selected public
industrial enterprises. Two main types of studies are envisaged. The
first type pertains to those enterprises for which a determination has been
made that it is unviable in its present form and should be divested. For
this type of study the consultants would prepare a divestiture plan con-
taining a specific action program for winding up the operation, liquidating
the assets and settling the liabilities. The second type of studies would
be for those industrial public enterprises whose viability is clear or
uncertain. In the case of the former a rehabilitation plan, if necessary,
may be drawn up focussing on corporate strategy, organization and manage-
ment, physical rehabilitation needs, and financial restructuring needs.
For the latter a diagnostic study would be done first to assess the viabil-
ity (technical, economic, and financial) of the enterprise. If the enter-
prise is deemed unviable a divestiture plan would be prepared. If it is
deemed viable a rehabilitation plan would be prepared.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
8.        A total budget of US$1 million has been estimated for the studies
program. It would be financed from three sources: US$0.5 million from the
ISAC proceeds; US$0.45 million grant from the Government of United Kingdom
and US$0.05 million from UNDP. For each study financed out of ISAC
proceeds the Government would submit for IDA approval terms of reference,
timetable and budget for each study.
D. Implementation Schedule
9.        Studies listed in paras 2 to 5 have been completed with the
assistance of a grant from the Government of United Kingdom. Any follow-up
work required in these areas would be financed using ISAC proceeds. A few
enterprise studies commenced in January 1986 and would take about 3-4
months to complete. The schedule for subsector studies would be
established in mid 1986.



- 67 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTHMENT CREDIT
DISBURSEMENT PROJECTIONS
Credit
IDA Fiscal     Disbursements                        Disbursement Profile
Year and End    During the      Cumulative                 Regional
of Quarter        Quarter      DisbuArRement    ISAC a/     SALs bl    RIC I
(SDR million)  (SDR million)   <-      of total loan -->
FY 87
Sept. 86             1.0            1.0            2          -          -
Dec. 86              2.0            3.0            6          5         12
March 87             3.0            6.0           11          -          -
June 87             4.0            10.0           19         36         49
FY 88
Sept. 87            4.0            14.0           26          -          -
Dec. 87              4.0           18.0           34         61         73
March 88             4.0           22.0           41          -          -
June 88             4.0            26.0           49         80         76
FY 89
Sept. 88            4.0            30.0           56          -          -
Dec. 88             4.0            34.0           63         92         85 c/
March 89            4.0            38.0           71          -          -
June 89             4.0            42.0           78         98        100 c/
FY 90
Sept. 89            3.0            45.0           84           -
Dec. 89              3.0           48.0           90        100
March 90             3.0           51.0           95
June 90              2.5           53.5          100
a/ ISAC disbursement profile is projected to be slower than the comparators
due to the technical assistance and rehabilitation components.
b/ Consecutive half-year Intervals from the date of Board approval.
c/ Projected.
Assumed Date of Credit Effectiveness: July 1986
CHA014/ANNEX XI



- 68 -                             AIlUlEX XI
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
DISBURSEMENT PROJECTION
"_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --  -.L  v                     -/ ,
J-1~-
41- ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
20- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~      
'''1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
a/ ISAC disbursement profile is projected to be slower than the comparators
due to the technical assistance and rebabilitation components.
b/  Regional SALs disbursement profile.



