CREDIT NUMBER 1672 GB
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           ,1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1672 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ,AA     1-7            , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
February 21, 1986, from the Borrower describing a program of
policies, goals and actions designed to achieve an adjustment
of the Borrower's industrial sector (the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed industrial inputs required during such execution;
(B) the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and as part of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
(C) the Borrower has also requested the Association in its
capacity as Administrator (the Administrator) of the Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) to provide
additional assistance toward the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Administrator (the African Facility Credit Agreement), the
Administrator is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggre-
gate principal amount equivalent to twenty-two million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,500,000) (the
African Facility Credit);
(D) Parts A, B and C (1) of the Project will be carried out
by Bank of Ghana in consultation with the Borrower and, for this
purpose, the Borrower will make available to the Bank of Ghana
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(E) Parts C (2) and D of the Project will be carried out by
the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association,
the Administrator and the Bank of Ghana;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified by adding
next after the words "the Borrower and the Association" occurring
therein the words "and shall include the industrial imports that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the African
Facility Credit Agreement";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.";
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(d)  Section 6.02 (a) (ii) stall be modified to read:
"(ii) under  any  other  development  credit agreement
between the Borrower and the Association or under
any African Facility Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association as Administrator of
the African Facility,"
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein


﻿- 3 -
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Administrator and the Bank of Ghana of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Financing and Administration Agreement"
means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank of Ghana pursuxant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Financing and Adminis-
tration Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means   the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated July 24, 1985 and September 13, 1985
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e) "Investment Code" means the Investment Code, 1985
(P.N.D.C.L. 116) of the Borrower;
(f) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published
in Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 2
(1975); and
(g) "RP Enterprise" and "RP" have the meanings assigned to
them in Section 1.01 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,700,000).


﻿Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation: (i) for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
Fo agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account of
withdrawals by an RP Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the RP in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement


﻿-5-
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1996, and ending
February 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Bank of Ghana is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objecti es of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts C (2) and D of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
said Parts of the Project.


﻿-6-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Bank of Ghana to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of the Bank of Ghana therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable the Bank of Ghana to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall out of the proceeds of the Credit
make available to the Bank of Ghana an amount or amounts equi-
valent to $26,550,000 or such other amount or amounts as shall be
allocated to Categories (1) through (4) in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement under a subsidiary financing and administration agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank of
Ghana, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Financing and Administration Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Financing and Administra-
tion Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall prepare an annual import program in
each year for its industrial sector according to the principles
described in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(f) In addition to the Borrower's obligations which are set
forth in the preceding paragraphs of this Section, the Borrower
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(g) Prior to the exchange of views referred to in para-
graph 5 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of Parts A, B and C (1) of the Project shall
be carried out by the Bank of Ghana pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) Prior to carrying out each study included
in Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation for its review and comment the terms of reference, time-
table and budget for each such study.
(b) Upon completion of each such study, the Borrower shall
immediately furnish the Association with a copy thereof and
thereafter, consult with the Association on the findings and
recommendations of the study.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(i) exchange views with the Association on the plans
for   reorganizing  the   departments  and   other
agencies of the Borrower which receive technical
assistance under Part C (2) of the Project; and
(ii) ensure that the Central Bureau of Statistics shall
complete an industrial census by December 31, 1987
or such other date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association, which census
shall be carried out under terms of reference
agreed with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in


﻿-8-
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at   l1ast  one  year  after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and


﻿-9-
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Bank of Ghana shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program can be carried out or that the Bank of Ghana will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)  the Bank of Ghana Act, 1963 (Act 182) shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Bank of Ghana to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Bank of Ghana or for the suspension of its
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Financing and Administration Agreement
shall have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Bank
of Ghana; and
(b) an annual import program for the industrial sector for
1986, acceptable to the Association, shall have been prepared and
approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Bank of Ghana, and is legally binding upon the
Bank of Ghana in accordance with its terms;
(b) that   the   Subsidiary  Financing   and  Administration
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the Bank of Ghana and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Bank of Ghana in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Provisional National Defense Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Provisional National Defence
Council Secretary for Finance
and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M 40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECONOMICOM                          2205 MIFA EPGH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                            4 -
SRegional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Industrial raw          13,500,000         100% of foreign
materials, spare                          expenditures
parts and related
inputs under
Part A of the
Project
(2) Goods and services      9,000,000          100% of foreign
financed out of                           expenditures
the proceeds of
Sub-loans under
Part B of the
Project
(3) Consultants' ser-        1,640,000         100%
vices under
Part C of the
Project
(4) Equipment and             850,000          100% of foreign
vehicles under                            expenditures
Part C of the
Project
(5) Studies under             450,000          100%
Part D of the
Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Refunding of              260,000          Amount due
Project Prepara-                           pursuant to
tion Advance                               Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agree-
ment.
TOTAL           25,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000 may be
made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (4) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after Octo-
ber 1, 1985;
(b) in respect of a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan has
been approved by the Association, or (ii) the Sub-loan is a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has au :horized
withdrawals from the Credit Account; or
(c) except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, on account of expenditures by an RP Enterprise in
respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Association's approval if
such expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received in
respect of such Sub-loan the application and information required
by Part C (1) (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement or, in
respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Association shall have received in respect


﻿- 15 -
of such free-limit Sub-loan the request and information required
by Part C (1) (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above and
except and to the extent as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made under Category (1) in respect
of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group              Description of Items
112          -                   Alcoholic beverages
121          -                   Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122          -                   Tobacco, manufactured
667          -                   Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
688          -                   Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles
therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium
718        718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, n.e.s.
897        897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch-
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (in-
cluding set gems)
-         971.0                 Gold, non-monetary (ex-
cluding gold ores and
concentrates)


﻿- 16 -
(b) expenditures for crude oil;
(c) expenditures for products which are on the list of
items under price control and the list of items under distribu-
tion control and raw materials for such products, other than
ethical drugs, matches, matchetes and textiles. For the pu rposes
of this paragraph, the term "products under price control" means
any product for which the manufacturer is required to obtain
prior authorization from the Price and Income Board or any
successor Government Agency in order to increase the selling
price of the said product.
(d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(e) expenditures for goods financed from export retentioi.
funds;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for private or public luxury consumption; and
(g) expenditures for foodstuffs.
5.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into: (a) under Category (1) to pay amounts to the Bor-
rower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit after:
(i) the amount of the proceeds withdrawn or committed
under said Category (1), and
(ii) the amount of the proceeds withdrawn or committed
under Category (1) of the table set forth in
paragraph (1) of Schedule 1 to the African
Facility Credit Agreement,
shall have amounted in the aggregate to SDR 22,500,000 unless
the Association shall be satisfied, after the exchange of views
described in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement (A) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program,
and (B) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment have been taken; and


﻿- 17 -
(b) under Category (2) until the Association has received
evidence satisfactory to it that: (i) the Bank of Ghana has
employed (A) the firm of consultants referred to in Section II of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and (B) the following
experts: two economists, one industrial engineer, two financial
analysts, and one market analyst; and (ii) the experts referred
to in paragraph (B) above have taken up their positions in the
Development Finance Department of the Bank of Ghana.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the first phase (1986-1988) of its Program for
medium term industrial adjustment.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Industrial imports
Financing of importation of industrial raw materials, spare
parts and related inputs.
Part B:   Rehabilitation of Existing Industrial Enterprises
Financing of eligible rehabilitation investment proposals
(RPs).
Part C:   Institutional Assistance
(1) Strengthening of the Bank of Ghana through the provision of
technical assistance and consulting services, training,
equipment and vehicles.
(2) Strengthening of specified ministries and agencies of the
Borrower (as determined by the Borrower and the Association)
through the provision of technical assistance and consulting
services, training, equipment and vehicles.
Part D:   Studies
Carrying out of studies to develop:
(a) policy options in the areas of export incentives and
procedures, protection regime, indirect taxes, import of adjust-
ment policies on prices and income, and guidelines for implement-
ing the Investment Code;
(b) rehabilitation/restructuring    plans   for   industrial
enterprises, particularly state-owned enterprises; and


﻿- 19 -
(c) strategies for restructuring of industrial subsectors.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 21 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall b&
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories of the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 22 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)  If the Association shall have d'etermined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from tLhe Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
List of actions to be taken pursuant to paragraph 5 (a) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(1) the Borrower shall have approved an industrial import
program acceptable to the Association for 1987;
(2) the Borrower shall have approved a phased program of import
liberalization acceptable to the Association; and
(3) the   Borrower   shall  have  implemented   export  promotion
measures in 1986 acceptable to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


