Document of
The World Bank
Report Ng: 17220 COM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A
HEALTH PROJECT
JANUARY 30, 1998
Human Development 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1997)
Currency Unit = Comorian Francs
KMF 1.00   = US$ 0.0025
US$ 1.00 = KMF 400.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CPR                 Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CEP                 Cellule d'Ex&cution du Projet (Project Implementation Unit)
CNFRSP              Centre National de Formation et de 12echerche en Sante Publique
DGTSM               Direction Generale de la Tutelle, des Structures et des Moyens
DHS                 Demographic and Health Survey
IEC                 Information, Education and Communication
KMF                 Franc de la Republique Federale Islamique des Comores
MOH                 Ministry of Public Health and Population
PNAC                Pharmacie Nationale Autonome des Comores
PTI                 Program for Targeted Interventions
RHS                 Residual House Spraying
SLMTV               Service de Lutte contre les Maladies tb Transmission Vectorielle
UNICEF              United Nations Children Fund
WHO                 World Health Organisation
Vice President ......................  Callisto Madavo
Country Director .......................Michael Sarris
Sector Manager .......................  Nicholas Burnett
Task Team Leader/Task Manager .............. Eileen Murray



Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Health Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data
Block A.    Project Development Objective ............................................................2
1. Project Development Objective and key performance indicators ...........................................2
Block B.    Strategic Context ............................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by project .......................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........................................4
Block C.    Project Description Summary ............................................................6
1. Project components ............................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...............................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................... , . , ., .7
Block D.  Project Rationale ....................................9
1. Project Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .................................................... 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ........................................................... I1
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................            11
Block E.    Summary Project Analyses ...........................................................1  I
I. Economic ...........................................................                                               I 1
2. Financial ...........................................................                                              14
3. Technical ...........................................................                                              15
4. Institutional .,                                                                                                   15
5. Social .......................                                                                                     16
6. Environmental Assessment .......................                                                                   16
7. Participatory Approach .......................                                                                     16
Block F.  Sustainability and Risks .........................                                                                          17
1. Sustainability .......................                                                                             17
2. Critical Risks .......................                                                                             18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .......................                                                             18
Block G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                                                               19
1. Board conditions .......................                                                                           19
2. Effectiveness Conditions .......................                                                                   19
3. Other .......................                                                                                      19
Block H.  Readiness for Implementation .........................                                                                     20
Block I.  Compliance with Bank Plicies .........................                                                                     21
List of Annexes:
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.         Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.         Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 5.   Financial Summary
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.         Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 9.         Documents in Project File
Annex 10.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.  Country at a Glance
MAP






Africa Regional Office
Human Development 2
Project Appraisal Document
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Health Project
Date: January 30, 1998                                   Task Team Leader: Eileen Murray
Country Director: Michael Sarris                         Sector Manager: Nicholas Burnett
Project ID: 52887        Sector: Pop. Health and Nutrition    Program Objective Category: Poverty reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan             Program of Targeted Intervention:  [xl Yes   [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan          [xl Credit        [I Guarantee         [  Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 8.4 million / SDR 6.2 million
Proposed terms:                         []   Multicurrency         [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10            []   Standard Variable    [    Fixed              []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local                Foreign              Total
Government                                                     0.2                    -                 0.2
WHO                                                                                  0.4                0.4
UNICEF                                                          -                    0.1                0.1
IDA                                                            0.7                   7.7                8.4
Beneficiaries                                                  0.9                    -                 0.9
Total                                                          1.8                   8.2                10.0
Borrower: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOH)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                   1999        2000       2001     2002    2003
Annual                                   1.0          2.7        2.6       1.5     0.6
Cumulative                                 1.0          3.7        6.3      7.8      8.4
Project implementation period: 1998-2002.  Expected effectiveness date: 7/01/98.  Expected closing date: 12/31/02.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros              Project Title: Health Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indlicators (see Annex 1):
To reduce mortality from common diseases, particularly malaria, by ensuring a better utilization
of health facilities for the delivery of quality health care to the vast majority of the population
aad by organizing mosquito control activities to reduce the incidence of malaria. The principal
outcome/impact of the project will be a reduction in the umder-five mortality rate from 100 per
thousand in 1996 to 90 per thousand by the mid-term review and to 75 per thousand by the end
of the project; also, the number of deaths due to malaria among under-five children is expected to
decrease from an estimated 800 per year at present to 700 per year by the mid-term review and to
500 per year by the end of the project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1):
CAS document number: N/A      Date of latest CAS discussion: December 14, 1993
This project is consistent with the latest CAS, as discussed by the Board in December 1993.
Comoros has now been classified as a "D Category" country and therefore a formal CAS for the
country is no longer required for Board discussion. Three development priorities that have been
identified jointly by the authorities, private sector and donors are as follows: (a) poverty
reduction through sustained economic growth by creating a stable macro-economic environment,
improvement of the business context, and providing better quality infrastructure; (b) human
resource development and reduction in demographic growth--through improved literacy levels,
better family planning and more accessible health services; and (c) protection of the
environment. By ensuring a better utilization of health facilities for the delivery of quality health
care, the project will respond directly to the second development objective. This operation will
also address poverty alleviation by improving the health status and well-being of the population
(particularly women and children).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The overall macro-economic context continues to be troublesome. Public finances remain weak
with an accumulation of external arrears up to US$43 million and civil servants salaries arrears
up to 10 months by the end of 1996. A 1997 financial program was agreed with the IMF/Bank
for a test period for February-July 1997 with specific financial benchmarks. Financial results of
the first three months in 1997 were encouraging with major improvements in budgetary revenue
and a declining trend of wage bill arrears. Civil servants were paid on a regular basis from
January to November 1997, mainly due to a political commitment. There have been slippages
again in payments to civil servants these past two months due to the political events. Subsequent
Bank and IMF support to the Government's adjustment program would depend on a good track
record.
Health sector. The health sector consists of the central and regional units of the Ministry of
Public Health and Population (MOH), and of three public hospitals, two medical and surgical
centers, three urban medical centers, 12 health centers and a number of health posts, in addition



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 3
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
to a nascent private sector. Health facilities are providing an integrated package of primary
health care which, in addition to curative treatments, includes preventive activities, particularly
for the maternal and child health activities (immunization programs, prenatal visits, maternal and
child health, etc.) and family planning, and IEC. Despite some recent improvements, the
Comoros health sector remains inefficient, as evidenced by the high prevalence of insect, food
and water related diseases, and the low utilization of health care services. Malaria, for instance,
remains the dominant disease in Comoros. MOH estimates that malaria is responsible for
between 10 and 20 percent of deaths among children aged 0-5 years and between 20 and 25
percent of total hospital admissions.
Despite the fact that more than 80 percent of the population lives within a five kilometer radius
of a health facility which is a rather high percentage compared to the rest of Africa, utilization
rates for curative services are estimated at well below one curative contact per capita per year,
and less than 30 percent of deliveries are correctly assisted. Utilization of health services is
limited by two main factors, namely poor quality of health facilities (due in part to insufficient
funding) and poorly trained staff, including for management and finances. The almost complete
lack of government funds over the past 10 years did not allow the country's health facilities to be
fully operational in many cases, but the situation began to improve with the introduction of cost
recovery. This lack of government funding could remain a problem for the larger health
facilities, which may experience some difficulties to operate only with user fees. Total
expenditure for health is believed to be below the minimum US$ 12.00 per capita per year
required for just primary health care services.
Another major issue pertains to the demographic situation characterized by high fertility and a
population density rate in Anjouan of 221/km2. The Ministry of Health is aware of the situation
and has included family planning activities into its basic health care package. Health center staff
are also being trained in family planning issues under the on-going IDA financed PHR Project.
IEC activities in the family planning area are on-going under the IDA financed PHR Project.
These activities rely on both modern communication methods, such as radio, and on the
traditional communication networks such as community groups, mosques, and market places. As
a result of these efforts, the latest Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) in 1996 has shown that
the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) has increased from 3 percent to 8 percent in only a few
years. There is, however, no clear understanding of the demographic necessity for family
planning. In fact, it appears that many religious and traditional leaders are in favor of family
planning for health reasons but do not understand the demographic need to limit population
growth. Even though MOH has fulfilled its obligation on the clinical front, population control,
in order to have the intended impact, needs to be endorsed by the cabinet and addressed by many
line ministries simultaneously. Due to the current country context, the Government is reluctant
to adopt a multisectoral approach to tackle the population problem.
Government strategy. In the last few years, Comoros has adopted a series of comprehensive and
far-reaching reforms aimed at improving the management and efficiency of its health system at
all levels in order to ensure a better delivery of good quality health care. Based on the sector
policy letter that was sent to the Bank in November 1993 in connection with the ongoing PHR
project, law No. 94-016, which outlines a new general framework for the health system and
defines the mandate and responsibilities of the public sector, was passed on June 17 1994;



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 4
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
several decrees were issued in 1994 and 1995 to follow up on implementation. The reforms
included: (i) a reorganization of MOH with more emphasis on the Regional Directorates and a
redefinition of the role of the central units; (ii) the conversion of public hospitals and health
centers into public establishments with administrative and financial autonomy or into not-for-
profit private organizations, with boards of directors and management committees; (iii) the
implementation of an important personnel redeployment plan; (iv) a complete overhaul of the
financing arrangements with the introduction of cost recovery (fees for service and income from
the sale of drugs); and (v) health facilities managing their bank accounts. The most important
accomplishment of these reforms is the participation of the communities/beneficiaries in the
management of health facilities through setting up tarification levels and funding allocations. A
more detailed description of the health sector reforns together with the legal texts that have been
enacted can be found in the "Note d'Information sur la Reforme du systeme de Santf aux
Comores" which is included in the project file (see Amlex 9). The scope and depth of those
reforms which are being implemented in parallel with the initial development of private health
care, are in a way unique in the sub-Saharan African context. A new letter of sector policy was
submitted in December 1997 summarizing the accomplislhments of the sector and outlining what
remains to be done.
Although the major part of the reforms has been implemented, there have been some delays and
setbacks. Boards of directors are not in place for all health facilities and directors have not
always been appointed in accordance with normal procedures outlined in the legal texts enacted
as part of the reforms. Also, many managers of health facilities do not know the procedures for
accounting for funds and need training in finance and management. In addition, central and
regional units of MOH lack the capacity to plan, monitor and audit activities performed by the
health sector.
Health facilities have already begun exploring creative financing mechanisms such as twinning
arrangements with health facilities at the same level in France and other countries. For example,
the health facilities of Mb6ni and Fombouni have been receiving support from abroad in the form
of technical assistance and equipment.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues addressed by the project are the low utilization of health facilities, the high
environmnental risks affecting health, the insufficient funding and the poor institutional capacity
of the health sector. To increase the utilization of health services, the project will support, along
with other donors, the rehabilitation of health facilities together with the provision of equipment,
and the training of health facilities managers and health workers. As the condition of health
facilities improves in parallel with quality health care, utilization rates should increase
considerably at first and then level off. A condition of disbursement for the civil works category
of the "rehabilitation and equipment of selected health facilities" component will be that, for all
health facilities which will be rehabilitated by the Project, all boards of directors are in place and
all directors have been appointed in accordance with legislative texts Sections 3 to 13 of
Presidential Decree 95-053 regarding hospitals and Sections 9 to 20 of Presidential Decree 95-
054 regarding health centers. In an effort to improve thte efficiency of the health sector, the
project will rehabilitate and equip selected health facilities, finance training for MOH and health
care personnel and support a wide range of mosquito control activities, including source



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 5
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                   Project Title: Health Project
reduction, use of impregnated bednets, biological control, and residual spraying, aimed at
reducing the burden of malaria and preventing mortality and incapacity.
The issue of the underfinancing of the sector will be addressed during public expenditure reviews
and an attempt will be made to account for community financing and the full range of MOH's
contribution, including the payment of health personnel salaries and contributions in kind.
Community spending patterns for health care will be assessed. Generally, the project will
support the expansion of cost recovery in order to allow for a significant increase in expenditure
levels. Regarding the poor institutional capacity of the health sector, the project will support the
training of the managers and employees of health facilities to enable them to make rational
allocative and spending decisions and to provide better quality care; training will also be
provided to the civil servants working in the central and regional units of MOH to enable MOH
directors to plan, coordinate and monitor sector activities. Twinning arrangements with hospitals
in foreign countries will be explored as a means of obtaining additional support for health
facilities. The project will also provide MOH with specialized technical assistance in fields such
as health insurance and finance, malaria, etc. In addition, the project will provide vehicles, office
equipment and supplies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                           Project Title: Health Project
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                 Category       Cost ]ncl.    % of      Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total   financing      Bank-
_____                                                                       (US$M)   financing
(a) The rehabilitation and equipment of  Physical,     3.1]        31%        3.1         38%
selected health facilities (including the   Project
Hombo hospital and the Domoni       Management
medical and surgical center in
Anjouan, the Mitsamiouli medical and
surgical center in Grande Comore, and
selected health facilities in Moheli) to
facilitate the delivery of good quality
health care to the population, which
will also have a direct favorable impact
on cost recovery by those health
facilities.
(b) The control of malaria by       Physical,          3.9         39%        2.3         27%
improving case management at all    Policy,
levels of the health service, educating   Institution
the population for a better utilization of Building,
the services and improved case      Training,
management at home, and preventive    Project
activities including mosquito control to  Management
reduce the incidence of the disease.
(c) Institutional strengthening to  Policy,            2.4         24%        2.4         28%
facilitate and support the increased  Institution
utilization of quality care by the  Building,
population and the further          Training,
implementation of the health sector  Project
reforms, including (i) training in  Management
Comoros of MOH as well as health
facilities staff in the delivery of quality
health care, management and
accounting; (ii) studies fDr the
development of altemative
mechanisms for health financing; and
(iii) technical assistance, logistical
support, and equipment for MOH's
Central and Regional Directorates and
the Pharmacie Nationale Autonome
des Comores--PNAC (the agency in
charge of the marketing of drugs).
(d) Project Implementation Unit                        0.6          6%        0.6         7%
Total                                                  10.0        100%       8.4        100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is designed to support the ongoing health sector reforms which are described in B2
above. See also B3 for a discussion of the sector issues to be addressed by the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 7
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit from the project will be improved family welfare and lower mortality and
morbidity rates, particularly among women and children, through reduced exposure to malaria
and increased utilization of good quality health services. Additional benefits will be enhanced
efficiency of the health care system due to: (i) significant improvements of the quality of health
infrastructure; (ii) improvement of the technical and managerial efficiency of health
professionals; (iii) an increase in financial resources for the health sector (the component will
create a more favorable climate for cost recovery schemes since health facilities will be in better
physical shape and provide better services); (iv) improved distribution of powers and
responsibilities between the national and local authorities; (v) promotion of a sense of ownership
and accountability at the local level; and (vi) allocation of sector resources according to local
priorities. Three (out of four) of the health facilities to be rehabilitated are on the islands of
Anjouan and Moh6li, and the malaria control program will be particularly important for the
islands of Anjouan and Moheli, which are the most affected by poverty. Therefore, the
percentage of project beneficiaries will have a significantly larger proportion of poor people than
the country's population as a whole, so that the inclusion of the project in the Program for
Targeted Interventions (PTI) is justified.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 4 years
Executing agency: Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOH)
Proiect management: The General Secretary of the Ministry of Public Health and Population
(MOH) will be responsible for overseeing the implementation by MOH directorates and line
agencies of all operational aspects of the project (including close follow-up of the on-going
health sector reforms). See Annex 2 for the implementation arrangements for each component.
The Cellule d'Ex&cution du Projet - CEP (Project Implementation Unit) will continue to be
located in MOH and will report directly to the General Secretary of MOH. This support unit will
be responsible for: (a) preparing annual work programs and corresponding budgets; (b) ensuring
the coordination of the different components; (c) maintaining a proper accounting system for
each component and keeping the project accounts; (d) managing the special account for the IDA
credit; (e) preparing bidding documents and monitoring the overall procurement process; (f)
administering contracts for the civil works financed under the project in collaboration with the
General Directorate for Supervision, Structures and Means (DGTSM); (g) preparing quarterly
and annual progress reports; (h) recruiting independent auditors and ensuring that audits are
performed annually in a timely fashion; (i) managing all technical assistance contracts; (j)
organizing the mid-term review in 2000; (k) preparing the implementation completion report for
the project; and (1) collecting data on the financing of the health sector. The unit's high level
staff will include an executive director, an accountant and a procurement specialist, each having
at all times qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. Although the high level staff have
performed satisfactorily under the on-going project, the Government has indicated its wish to re-
advertise these positions (as is the case for the new Education and Social Fund Projects) so that
either the present staff are confirmed in their positions or that better candidates are recruited.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 8
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros              Project Title: Health Project
Proiect coordination: The General Secretary of MOH will be responsible for the coordination of
activities under the project.
Project oversight: Policy guidance will be provided by the Minister of MOH. In addition, a
management committee chaired by the Minister and consisting of the General Secretary, the two
General Directors and the three Regional Directors (and other higher level staff of MOH that
may be invited to attend depending on the matters to be d:iscussed at any particular meeting) will
participate in project planning and monitoring.  The Executive Director of the Project
Implementation Unit, CEP, will attend all meetings and record minutes for each of these
meetings. The management committee will approve the annual work prograams and budgets,
review progress in all project activities, monitor performance indicators (tableau de bord), and
trigger any corrective action that may be necessary.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: A computerized accounting system
by the name of TOMPRO was put in place in the project implementation unit (CEP) and is
functioning adequately. Project staff are familiar with the software and intend to use it during
this project also. All audit reports under the on-going project were unqualified. A special
account for the IDA credit will be opened and maintained with a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA. An independent auditor acceptable to IDA will audit the use of all IDA funds, including
the special account for the IDA credit and statements oif expenditures. Audit reports will be
submitted not later than six months after the end of the fi-nancial year. The auditor's terms of
reference were agreed with IDA during negotiations, an(d the signing of a contract (one year,
renewable for a maximum of three years) with the auditor is a condition of effectiveness of the
IDA credit.
Monitoring and evaluation (M/E) arranzements: Monitoring procedures and project progress
reports will focus on progress in, and impacts of, the implementation of the project, measured
against specific targets and actions set in the detailed implementation programs or work
programs, all of which will be reviewed and revised each year throughout the project life.
General progress of the project will be measured against a list of key indicators, which are
included in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1), the Detailed Project Description (Annex 2)
and the Implementation Plan in the Project Implementation Manual. The M/E of some of those
indicators will be conducted through specific surveys and beneficiary assessments. In addition,
each year, MOH will prepare its work programs and budgets for the next year, to be discussed
with IDA and other donors at the annual project implementation review that will take place no
later than November 30 of each year. By December 31, 2000, a mid-term review of the Project
will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and monitoring indicators acceptable to
IDA; a beneficiary assessment will be scheduled at that time to obtain population perspectives on
health issues. MOH will submit to IDA agreed upon quarterly progress reports summarizing the
status of the project and the degree of compliance with covenants in the credit agreement.
Within six months of the closing of the IDA credit, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
will be prepared by IDA, with MOH contributing its own evaluation of the Project to the ICR.
Under the overall guidance of the Management Comnmittee and the General Secretary of MOH,
M/E of the project will be the shared responsibility of the MOH directorates and divisions, but
particularly of the Division for Epidemiology, Planning and Statistics (Division Epidemiologie,



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 9
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                     Project Title: Health Project
Planification et Statistiques), with the assistance of the Project Implementation Unit (CEP). The
Project Implementation Unit, in collaboration with the General Directorate for Supervision,
Structures and Means (DGTSM), will be mainly responsible for monitoring the rehabilitation and
equipment of health facilities.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Reforms in the health sector have given the responsibility of the management of health centers in
part to community groups so the role of the Ministry has changed. To some extent, the project is
protected from the political and fiscal pressures which could have an adverse impact if one were
to judge from the Government's track record in the execution of other key programs, coupled
with the fact that civil servants are unmotivated due to salary arrears of about a year. Therefore,
the only logical choice is to continue providing support for the reform by financing items such as
rehabilitation and equipment of health facilities, training of health personnel and technical
assistance to enable health facilities to deliver good quality care while being self-sustaining.
Preference was given to training in Comoros because it is the most cost-effective method since it
can benefit the largest number of staff. The alternative of using one method of malaria control
has been rejected because experiences from many programs have shown the superiority of
integrated programs coordinating the activities of the general health services, other sectors and
community action, and developing complementary mosquito control as required.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 10
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                        Project Title: Health Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                     Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
low utilization of health facilities;  Population and Human        HS               HS
insufficient funding; and poor   Resources, expected to close on
institutional capacity of the health  6/30/99.
sector.
low utilization of health facilities.  Social Fund (Board
presentation in
December 1997)
Other development agencies
low utilization of health facilities;  WHO Health Project (on-
high environmental risks affecting  going)
health; insufficient funding; and poor  UNICEF Health Project (on-.
institutional capacity of the health  going)
sector.                          UNDP Health Project (on-
going and new one planned in
1998)
FAC Health Project (on-going)
UNFPA Health Project (on-
going)
Community Development (EU)
(on-going)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This project builds on the successful results in terms of attainment of development objectives as
well as implementation progress of the on-going IDA-financed PHR Project. IDA has been
involved in the health sector for over 10 years; the key lesson learned is that, with only one
exception, the Government has not provided the health sector with any financing except for
wages (and even the payment of wages has been a problem). This trend is likely to continue
since there is about a year of arrears in civil servant salaries which is a much more pressing issue
politically for the Government than providing non-wage allocations to the health sector. Thus,
the project has been designed in order for the health facilities to be able to function to the
maximum extent through cost recovery mechanisms and external financing. Generally, the
Government does not have a good track record in terms of providing agreed upon counterpart
funds. This issue will be tackled as part of any discussions on an eventual structural adjustment
program. In any event, the beneficiary participation (i.e. the payments made by patients under
the cost recovery arrangements in the health sector) as well as the payment of salaries will be
counted as counterpart funds. In addition, health facilities have already began to explore creative



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros              Project Title: Health Project
financing mechanisms such as twinning arrangements.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Experience has clearly shown that when communities are given the proper support, they become
key actors in the development process. In the health sector, significant reforms were undertaken
rendering health facilities autonomous, and the Government as well as the population remain
committed to the further "operationalization" of the reforms since substantial improvements in
health care are noticeable (e.g. in most cases health facilities are properly staffed and drugs are
readily available). The last five years have witnessed the development of an excellent
participatory process which resulted in a broad base consensus regarding sector reforms to the
extent that the communities successfully resisted the decision by the newly elected officials to
reverse reforms. As community groups become more involved in the management of these
health facilities through boards of directors or local associations of users, the quality of health
care should improve, since the services provided will be properly accounted for and payments
made by users will be reinvested into the purchase of drugs, medical supplies, etc. In addition,
malaria control activities should build upon the strong community development characteristics of
Comoros.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has worked in complete partnership with MOH providing them with the necessary
technical inputs for the implementation of the on-going project and the preparation of the
proposed project. In view of the problems with counterpart funds and the payment by the
Government of civil servants salaries and operating subsidies to health facilities, the Bank has
been instrumental in helping MOH prepare a project for the rehabilitation and equipment of
health facilities that could become self-financing. In addition, the Bank made sure that the
highest quality experts were involved in the preparation of specific components, such as malaria
control, in order to ensure good results on the ground.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR= % [x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: [ Other (Specify)
Annex 4 examines the economic and sectoral context and the financial situation of the health
sector, and shows that the investments included in the project are the most cost effective manner
to facilitate the delivery of good quality health care.
The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros is one of the poorest countries in the world, with real
per capita income of about US$ 460 (1996) and an estimated human development index of 0.33 1.
The country suffers from a weak administrative apparatus and a shortage of qualified personnel,
growing foreign trade imbalances, inadequate basic infrastructure, lopsided national income
distribution, an inappropriate framework of institutions, laws, and regulations, and the adverse
effects of population growth. The country embarked into an adjustment process with some positive
results, but improvements have been obtained through sacrifices, extremely high social costs, and
stagnation in investments. The country's health sector has been hit hardest. Its budgetary
allocations represent between 5.5% and 6% of the country's consolidated budget, a far cry from the
10% recommended by WHO. Those allocations have been theoretical, to a great extent, since



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 12
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                    Project Title: Health Project
operating subsidies are not paid to health facilities (exceptionally, 1995 allocations were paid in
1996) and the payment of salaries to civil servants is very irregular. On the other hand the
contribution of the population to the operating costs of the health sector has been increasing
substantially in recent years. Overall, annual spending on health in Comoros represents about US$
14 per capita, or about 3% of GDP.
The contents of the project have been carefully selected on the basis of the following criteria: (i)
the Government's priorities; (ii) the socio-economic and political context, particularly the
Government's concern for national reconciliation; (iii) the performance of the health system and
of MOH; (iv) the results and impact (or lack thereof) of past experiences; (v) the implications of
the different components regarding the needs for operation and maintenance and the means
(available or to be provided) to cover those needs; (vi) the components' impact on development
as well as the health status of the population; and (vii) the financing that could be provided by
other donors in the context of other projects or programs.
Regarding the financing of the sector, the shift away from government towards user financing
seems irreversible; it should be encouraged and facilitated, together with the promotion of
measures to develop savings, solidarity and social protection. In designing the project, priority
has been given to investments capable of generating additional financial resources (rehabilitation
of health facilities, improvement of the quality of health care through training, etc.) or reducing
expenditures (control of malaria). The Government's contribution to the financing of the health
sector is likely to remain at about US$ 1.7 million per year, and will cover essentially the salaries
and other personnel costs of civil servants, including the salaries of those civil servants working in
health facilities. As for cost recovery from the community, one can be reasonably optimistic about
the ability of health facilities to raise revenues since even the most optimistic forecasts have been
exceeded (in 1997, revenues are estimated to increase by about 50% compared to 1996). Overall,
user fees and the proceeds of the sale of drugs will represent about US$ 2.0 million a year. It is
realistic to assume that health facilities will be able to function even without operating subsidies
from the Government provided, however, that: (i) health facility personnel who are civil servants
are paid regularly by the Government; (ii) the cost of training health personnel is financed by
Government or donors; (ii) major physical rehabilitation of structures and equipment
replacement is financed by the Government or donors; (iii) health facilities are managed and
operated correctly and efficiently; (iv) health facilities can manage and operate their own
pharmacies; and (v) certain parameters (such as the percentage of health services provided at no
cost to those who cannot pay, and the invoicing based on lump sum amounts) remain within
acceptable limits. The financial forecasts for the next five years (1998-2002) show that a
substantially higher level of expenditures for health (close to US$ 18 per capita, compared to about
US$ 14 on average for the last five years) could be achieved and financed through a reasonable mix
of budgetary allocations, grants and loans, and community contributions. It is worth noting that the
community contributions would represent about 23 percent of the total financing for the health
sector as a whole, but about 38 percent of the operating expenses of health facilities.
The component for the rehabilitation and equipment of health facilities has been designed taking
into account the condition of existing structures and equipment and the necessity to adopt the
most cost-effective solution, through least-cost rehabilitation and limiting new constructions and
through the purchase of appropriate equipment (i.e., the least expensive equipment, but also the



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                   Project Title: Health Project
one that is the easiest to operate and maintain). The design of the component has taken into
account its direct impact not only on the health of the population but also on the revenues of the
health facilities. This will ensure that the health facilities will be able to generate enough
revenue to subsidize their less profitable units and to operate even if they do not receive
operating subsidies from the Government.
On the economic front, the Government views malaria as one of the main causes of absenteeism
from work and school. People are hit hardest by the effects of the disease during the period when
farm work is heaviest and the result is a significant reduction in productivity and economic growth.
The reliance on an integrated program, coordinating the activities of health services and
communities and developing complementary vector control as required, is the most efficient and
cost-effective. The selection of the specific activities is based on the characteristics of each
island which allow for different approaches with great variances in costs (it is worth noting that
the cost of treatment of breeding areas of anopheles with larvivorous fish or larvicides -- a very
effective form of vector control for Grande Comore -- is negligible). Malaria has tremendous
direct and indirect costs for governments (ministries of health) as well as family economies, placing
a strain on tight family budgets. Both the direct and indirect costs of malaria are always difficult to
measure or estimate in most countries, and Comoros is no exception. The best that can be done is
to provide an order of magnitude of the costs involved, and it would not make sense to attempt to
compute a rate of return. However, in assessing whether it is appropriate for Comoros to spend
US$ 3.9 million for malaria control, one should consider the potential savings in direct health costs
of US$ 2.0 million and the indirect losses of US$ 3.6 million that could be mitigated or avoided.
There is no doubt that a reduction in the incidence of malaria will improve the quality of life of
Comorians and benefit the Comorian economy as a whole, through lower absenteeism and higher
productivity. It will also have an impact on the tourism market, since tourists will be less
apprehensive of contracting the disease.
The major element of the institutional strengthening component is training. The definition of the
training program is based on an analysis of the training needs of MOH staff and of health facility
personnel. A conscious choice has been made to continue to develop a local capacity for training
in the Centre National de Formation et de Recherche en Sante Publique (CNFRSP) in Moroni.
All training, whether long-term or short-term, will be in country, with the participation of foreign
training institutions. One advantage of this approach is that most of the moneys spent will
remain in Comoros. It is also the most cost-effective way of upgrading the skills of MOH staff
and health professionals. For example, it is estimated that the long-term training of a person in
Comoros will cost from US$ 3,000 to US$ 6,000 per year, as compared to about US$ 20,000 per
year for training abroad. For short-term training, the cost differential is even greater. In addition
to the cost aspect, training in Comoros will also have a number of important advantages
compared to overseas training: (i) it will allow the staff to continue to exercise their professional
activity, without prolonged interruptions; (ii) it will permit the adoption of a curriculum focusing
on local practices and the solution of the health problems of Comoros or of the problems of
health facilities; (iii) it will limit the risks which are inherent in overseas training (difficulty to
adapt the acquired knowledge to deal with local problems; possibility that the trainees will not
return home or, if they do return home, will not be assigned to posts with the functions and
responsibilities which the training was supposed to help them carry out).



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The proposed credit of US$ 8.4 million would cover aboult 85 percent of total project costs. In
addition, to certain items financed by other donors (UNICEF and WHO, for a total of US$ 0.5
million), the cost of the project includes the salaries of civil servants working on the project
components (a Government contribution of US$ 0.2 million), and beneficiary contributions for
impregnated bednets i(US$ 0.9 million), which are in addition to the fees paid for services
rendered in health facilities.
In view of the significant contribution made by beneficiaries which will also be accounted for as
the counterpart contribution, the IDA credit will finance 100 percent (net of taxes) of
expenditures for all disbursement categories in the credil: agreement. MOH has obtained a
waiver for taxes and duties for all items financed by the IDA credit.
The fiscal impact of the project needs to be assessed in terms of the Government contribution
during the implementation period and of the recurrent cost implications after the project closes.
As mentioned above, the most that the Government could provide is the payment of the salaries
of civil servants working in health facilities and in the central and regional units of the MOH.
During the implementation period, it would be unrealistic to expect that the Government could
make any contribution to the investment costs, which would have to be financed 100% by IDA
or other donors. Regarding the recurrent cost implications, the support provided by the project to
cost recovery within the framework of the sector reforms wilil enable the health system to become
progressively financially viable with users meeting the operating costs of health facilities,
whereas the Government will continue to pay the salaries of personnel and mobilize the external
financing necessary to cover the cost of expansion, major rehabilitation and equipment of
physical facilities. Experience from cost recovery in health facilities in Comoros has proven to
be a success. It is clear that users do not mind paying for quality health care, drugs, and other
related services. Cost recovery is now well accepted by the Comorian population. All services
except for priority health services, such as immunization, are rendered for a fee. Each health
facility fixes its own tariffs based on the population's willingness to pay. The Board of Directors
of the health facility in question negotiates this tariff structure directly with MOH. An
interesting feature of the Comorian Society is the fact that community groups are very dynamic
and have strong safety nets built-in. Poor members of the community are not denied health care
since either the community will contribute or the health facil ity will absorb the cost.
The selection of activities/departments to be included in the rehabilitation and equipment of
health facilities is based on the positive impact that those investments would have on the
revenues of those facilities, in addition to their impact on the health status of the population.
When operated properly, departments, such as radiology, pharmacy, maternity and clinics with
private or semi-private rooms, have a good potential for revenue generation. An analysis of the
finances of some major health facilities shows that even hospitals and medical centers could
function without operating subsidies from the Government, provided that the Government pay
the salaries of civil servants and provide for the trainin,g of health personnel, that major
rehabilitation and equipment replacement are financed by donors, that the facilities are properly
managed with sound financial practices for collection of fees for services, that the facilities
manage and operate their own pharmacies, and that certain parameters such as the percentage of
services provided free to the poor and the percentage of billings on a lump sum basis remain



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 15
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
within acceptable limits. Therefore, the fiscal impact is likely to remain limited to a Government
contribution to pay the salaries of civil servants and to service the external debt. Malaria control
will require a major investment in the development of mosquito-control activities which are
expected to achieve significant results during the duration of the project and become sustainable
thereafter, being based on community action under the guidance and support of an effective
health system.
3. Technical:
Overall, the project is technically sound. The preparation of the components is based on
international as well as regional norms and practices, and the project will be carried out in
accordance with acceptable standards. Innovations, such as community financing and the health
sector reforms, are based on sound technical, financial and economic considerations. Investment
costs for the project are based on prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate allowance for
inflation and, whenever applicable, a reasonable level of physical contingencies.
All health activities included in this project will have a direct impact on the health status of the
population. The issue of access to health facilities is addressed in a systematic manner on the
basis of needs, equity, opportunities and comparative advantages within the context of the
geographical constraints in Comoros. In addition, the strategy adopted for the control of malaria
is quite comprehensive and based on current regional and global strategies adapted to the ecology
and social realities of Comoros, taking into account the experiences of past efforts to control
malaria in the country and in the region.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: MOH demonstrated that, with the assistance of donors and consultants, it
can formulate and implement very comprehensive health sector reforms (see B.2). The reforms
represent a significant accomplishment given the country's political context. Nevertheless, the
weak absorptive and implementation capacity of the MOH is a widely recognized issue. MOH
staff are currently being trained in public health issues, management, accounting, etc., but the
lack of adequate funding for operating expenses and maintenance expenses is likely to remain a
problem. The impact of such deficiencies on the delivery of health care services to the
population is being minimized by the improvement of the operations of the health facilities.
Health Facilities As part of the health sector reforms, all health facilities in the country became
autonomous in 1996. This implies that each health facility (hospitals as well as health centers)
has a Board of Directors which, among other things, participate in the nomination of competent
hospital and health center directors and staff, approve the budget and monitor its implementation,
and review and approve health facility accounts. These Board of Directors' functions have
become extremely important in the context of the reforms, to ensure in particular that in the
implementation of the cost recovery schemes that have been put in place in each health facility
all funds are accounted for. Since, unfortunately, not all board of directors are in place and not
all directors have been appointed, the establishment of board of directors and the appointment of
directors in accordance with normal procedures in all health facilities which will be rehabilitated
under the project will be a condition of disbursement of the IDA credit for the civil works
category for the "rehabilitation and equipment of selected health facilities" component. A
training program for health workers is underway for skills enhancement in order to ensure the
provision of quality health care, as well as sound management and accounting.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 16
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros              Project Title: Health Project
b. Project management: Since the management capacity of the MOH is generally weak, the
project implementation unit (under the guidance of the General Secretary of MOH) will play an
important role in the monitoring and coordination of project activities. In addition, key MOH
staff will receive further training and high quality specialized technical assistance will be
recruited for assignments in particular in the areas of health economics and health sector
management.
5. Social:
There are no major social issues faced by this project. Since the ultimate objective of the project
is the improvement of the health status and well-being of the population in general, and of
women and children in particular, the project will have a very positive social impact. Experience
in Comoros has shown that the introduction of cost recovery has not prevented the poorest
people from receiving health care, since they have been cross-subsidized by those who can afford
to pay. In the future, the health insurance scheme component will enable poor people to have
access to quality health care in a more structured manner. The project will promote the provision
of good quality health care to an increasing number of people through an improvement in the
effective coverage of care at the health center level coupled with good quality referral care. The
control of malaria will not only alleviate the main health problem of the population but remove
some major obstacles for economic and social development (such as ill health at the time of
greatest need of manpower for agriculture). The development of communal antimalaria activities
will contribute to strengthen social concerns and solidarity. The project will also focus on the
islands of Anjouan and Moh6li which have a greater proportion of poor people than the island of
Grande Comore.
6. Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category    [JA  [ B   [xl C
The promotion of a better health and hygiene will have a positive environmental impact, but
there could be some environmental risks linked to the disposal of hospital wastes. The
construction of incinerators for the disposal of health facility waste will be a condition of
disbursement for the health facilities to be rehabilitated under this project. The implementation
manual provides guidelines for waste disposal of all health facilities.  Any construction/
rehabilitation of buildings will be done in accordance with acceptable standards, and no
environmental damage is foreseen in the implementation. Malaria control will be based on
improved case management and the extensive use of biological control methods, particularly
larvivorous fish, complemented by the promotion and support of the use of bednets. The use of
insecticides will be limited to the impregnation of bednets as well as indoor residual house
spraying in selected regions with non-toxic insecticides. The project will also have a positive
impact on the environment by rehabilitating latrines in selected health facilities and promoting
personal and group hygiene.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The key stakeholder groups are women and
children (the main users of the health system) for the project as a whole, the population at large
for the malaria control component and the staff of MOH and health facilities for the institutional
strengthening component. The design of the project is essentially based on the perception and
assessment of stakeholder needs by medical personnel and MOH staff.. The strategy is for
information sharing at the beginning of project implementation, and consultation through a



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 17
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                     Project Title: Health Project
beneficiary assessment at the time of the mid-term review.
b. Other key stakeholders: Other key stakeholder are the cofinanciers, WHO and UNICEF, for
which the form of participation is collaboration.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will be ensured by: (a) improving MOH's overall capacity to manage the
sector; (b) participation through cost recovery mechanisms that are being put in place in order for
health facilities to benefit from well operating revenue-generating departments (pharmacy,
radiology, private clinic, etc.) and provide better health services; (c) health facilities operating
their own pharmacies as a means of ensuring instant revenues as well as access to generic drugs;
(d) MOH paying in a timely manner the salaries of civil servants working in health facilities, in
addition to stipends from the proceeds of user fees; (e) close adherence to the health sector
reforms to ensure that competent staff in the health facilities are in place at all times; and (f)
improving the capacity of health workers to attract and properly treat patients. The introduction
of some form of health insurance mechanism, to be studied under the project, may help to ensure
that the sustainability of health facilities is not achieved at the expense of equity. The
sustainability of malaria control will be based on the full integration of case management and
epidemiological information into the general health service and in the build up of community
based activities of mosquito control, guided and supported by the responsible unit of the MOH.
Nevertheless, as illustrated below, the project presents a number of risks including the non-
payment of civil servants (particularly those working in health facilities), irregular Government
commitment and the political instability. The project has been designed in such a way that it
could be implemented despite these issues. In any event, it is appropriate for IDA to take some
risks at a time when Comoros has requested support from the donor community as a means for
reconciliation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 18
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                          Project Title: Health Project
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Ratinnz        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Obiective"
- Health sector reforms are not implemented and    M         - Bank to ensure implementation of
maintained, and health personnel are not paid and            reforns and payment of personnel
drugs are not available.                                    through overall macro-economic and
sector dialogue.
- Communities are not involved in malaria control  M         - IEC campaigns to increase community
activities to ensure that impregnated bednets are            participation in the malaria control
actually used and that cisterns keep containing larva        program.
eating fish.
Annex 1. cell "from Components to Outputs"
- Lack of political stability.                      H        - Project has been designed to work with
a community focus.
- Project is not properly managed by MOH and       M         - Bank supervision will focus on
Project Implementation Unit (CEP).                           implementation and management issues.
- Components are not implemented in a timely       M         - Bank supervision will focus on
manner and within budgets.                                   implementation and management issues.
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N lNegligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Government's record for the payment of civil servants salaries and of the operating subsidies
of MOH and of the health facilities is not good. In the future, the non payment of the salaries of
the personnel of MOH central and regional units and of the operating subsidies of those same
units, although undesirable, would not be catastrophic for the population. On the other hand, the
failure of Government to pay the salaries of civil servants working in health facilities would
certainly affect the delivery and quality of health care services, particularly if those same health
facilities do not receive any operating subsidies, as is the case at present. If salaries are not paid,
user :fees collected in hospitals and health centers are likely to be diverted to provide some form
of compensation to personnel to enable them to survive, instead of being used for the purchase of
drugs and the operation and maintenance of the facilities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 19
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros             Project Title: Health Project
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Board Conditions:
(a) Transmission of signed letter of sector policy.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Finalization of bidding documents for the civil works for the health facilities (Hombo
Hospital and Domoni Medical and Surgical Center in Anjouan and Mitsamiouli Medical and
Surgical Center in Grande Comore).
(b) The Project Implementation Plan/Manual prepared by MOH is satisfactory to IDA.
(c) Independent auditor satisfactory to IDA has been recruited for a three-year period.
(d) The Executive Director, the accountant and the procurement specialist have been recruited.
3. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Condition of disbursement for the civil works disbursement categorv: For each health facility to
be rehabilitated by the project:
(a) The establishment of Boards of Directors and the appointment of General Directors or Chief
Medical Officers in accordance with procedures outlined in decrees 95-053 and 95-054-PR.
(b) An adequate financial system has been established and is operational and financial statements
are produced and validated by MOH and are satisfactory to IDA.
(c) Adequate incinerating facilities for waste disposal have been built on the premises and are
operational.
(d) Draft bidding documents, acceptable to IDA, have been prepared and submitted to IDA for
review.
Execution of the Project (see also Section 4): The Government/Executing Agencies will:
(a) Ensure that the positions of Executive Director, accountant and procurement specialist of the
Project Implementation Unit (CEP) in MOH are filled at all times with personnel whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA.
(b) Conduct with IDA and other donors comprehensive annual project implementation reviews
no later than November 30 of each year.
(c) Carry-out with IDA and other donors, no later than December 31, 2000, a midterm review of
the project in accordance with terms of reference and monitoring indicators acceptable to IDA.
Financial Covenants(see C-4 and Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement arrangements).
Disbursements and Special Accounts (see Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 20
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                       Project Title: Health Project
arrangements).
Procurement and Consultant's Services (see Annex 6 on procurement and disbursement
arrangements)
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation. CEP staff and consultants currently working on the
preparation of engineering design documents.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. CEP staff and consultants currently working on the preparation of
bidding documents for the civil works for health facilities, the finalization of which is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 21
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                          Project Title: Health Project
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[xl This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Eileen Murray                 Nicholas Burnett                  Michael Sarris
Task Team Leader                 Sector Manager                 Country Director






Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Annex 1: Page I of 3
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                      Project Title: Health Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Comoros: Health Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance            Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators*               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                     (Goal to Bank Mission)
(1) Poverty reduction    (1) Poverty monitoring.     Poverty assessments,    Economic and socio-
through sustained                                    and/or quantitative and    political stability, and
economic growth by inter                             qualitative surveys to  economic growth.
alia providing better                                monitor (i) the
quality infrastructure, and                          percentage of the
population below the
(2) Human resource       (2) Monitoring of human     poverty line, and (ii)
development through inter  resource development.     human resource
alia more accessible health                          development.
services.
Project Development                                                          (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To reduce mortality from  - Under-five mortality rates  - Health statistics and  - Food security is
common diseases,         decreased from 100 per      reports from MOH        ensured.
particularly malaria, by  thousand in 1996 to 90 per  regional directorates.
ensuring a better utilization  thousand by the mid-term                      - There is a reduction in
of health facilities for the    review and to 75 per thousand   - Mini demographic  the rate of population
delivery of quality health    by the end of the project.  surveys undertaken by  growth.
care to the vast majority of                         independent consultants.
the population and by    - Number of deaths due to                           - Other basic social
organizing mosquito      malaria among under-five    - Beneficiary assessments  services (such as
control activities to reduce   children decreased from an  by independent    education) needed for
the incidence of malaria.    estimated 800 per year at  consultants.         human resource
present to 700 per year by the                      development are also
mid-term review and to 500                          provided.
per year by the end of the
project.
- Number of curative visits per
capita per year increased from
an estimated 0.4 at present to
0.8 at mid-term and to 1.0 by
the end of the project.
- Beneficiary satisfaction with
services provided.
* These are targets, not forecasts, discussed with the MOH.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Annex 1: Page 2 of 3
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                    Project Title: Health Project
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators     M4onitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Outputs:                                                                   (Outputs to Objective)
(I) Increased number of    (1) Number of health facilities  - Quarterly and annual
well functioning health  rehabilitated by the project: 2   progress reports prepared  - Health sector reforms
facilities.             by mid-termn and 4 by the end   by MOH.            continue to be
of the project.                                   implemented and
- Reports on sales of  maintained, and health
- Number of health facilities    bednets prepared by  personnel are paid and
equipped to national standards  PNAC.              drugs are available
by the project: 5 by the end of                   through PNAC or other
the project.               - Special surveys.      channels.
- Number of health workers    - Midterm and        - MOH staff and health
trained by the project in  completion evaluation   personnel trained
various medical techniques:    reports prepared by MOH  continue to work in the
200 by mid-term and 300 by    and Bank staff.      health sector in Comoros.
the end of the project.
- Supervision missions by  - Involvement of
Bank staff.            communities in malaria
(2) Efficient and       - Sales of bednets: 50,000 in                      control activities to
performing malaria control  1998, and 20,000 per year in                   ensure that impregnated
program.                 1999 and thereafter.                              bednets are actually used
and that cisterns keep
- Number of bednets                                containing larva eating
impregnated: 60,000 in 1998;                       fish.
80,000 in 1999; 100,000 in
2000; 120,000 in 2001; and
140,000 in 2002.
- Starting in 1999 and every
year thereafter, number of
houses in intensely infected
areas receiving three residual
sprayings per year: 13,000.
- Starting in 1999 and every
year thereafter, number of
villages where all cisterns have
larva eating fish: 241 (211 in
Grande Comore and 30 in
Anjouan).
(3) Improved supportive    - Number of MOH personnel
and management capacity   (at central and regional levels)
of MOH.                 trained: 80 by mid-term and
110 by the end of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 1: Page 3 of 3
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                        Project Title: Health Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each                              (Components to Outputs)
components (see Annex 2   component)
for project description):
(a) Rehabilitation and    (a) Total cost of US$ 3.1    - Quarterly and annual    - Minimum of political
equipment of hospital and   million, incl. contingencies.    progress reports by  stability
medical centers.                                       MOH.
- Availability of a
(b) Malaria control.      (b) Total cost of US$ 3.9    - Disbursement reports by  sufficient number of local
million, incl. contingencies.  MOH and Bank.         contractors, and training
facilities/trainers.
(c) Institutional         (c) Total cost of US$ 2.4    - Financial audit reports
strengthening.            million, incl.. contingencies.    submitted by independent  - Involvement of
financial auditors.     communities, particularly
(d) Project Implementation  (d) Total cost of US$ 0.6                          for malaria control
Unit (PIU).               million, incl. contingencies.  - Bank supervision    activities.
mission reports.
- PNAC is functioning
normally.
- Project is properly
managed by MOH and
Project Implementation
Unit (PIU).
- Components are
implemented in a timely
manner and within
budgets.






Project Appraisal Document                                           Annex 2: Page I of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                Project Title: Health Project
Annex 2
Health Project
Project Description
Context
In terms of utilization, Comoros' health services continue to rank among the lowest in the world.
Despite the fact that more than 80 percent of the population live within a five kilometer radius
from a health center, the number of contacts with health services for curative care remains well
below 1 per capita per year, and less than 30 percent of deliveries are correctly assisted. Low
utilization of services is partly attributable to the population's perception of the inadequate level
of health care. Health services are offered in dilapidated buildings which have not been properly
maintained and the equipment is mostly non-operational or outdated. In addition, health care
staff are unmotivated (due to salary arrears) and in most cases lack basic health care skills.
Comoros' health care system is characterized by lack of accountability in hospital management;
insufficient resources for health facilities to balance their budget and maintain their equipment;
and low efficiency in the use of resources by the public sector. Public hospitals and health
centers are staffed with managers who do not know the procedures for accounting for funds. In
addition, regional and central units of MOH lack the capacity to plan, monitor, and audit
activities performed by the health sector. The administration is also constrained by a reporting
system which does not permit administrators to determine the coverage or the unit or total costs
of services, to search for more cost-effective ways of providing services or to plan on the basis of
results or available resources.
Recent years have witnessed the development of a consensus on the need to improve the
efficiency of the health care system. A courageous and far-reaching reform program has been
adopted which led among other things to the establishment of PNAC, an autonomous institution
responsible for the supply of essential generic drugs; and the introduction of cost-recovery
mechanisms. In 1994, the Government enacted legislative texts (loi cadre 94-016/AF) rendering
the country's public health facilities autonomous and defining their roles (e.g. health care level
provided by each type of health facility) and management structure (e.g. hospital to have a Board
of Directors, etc.). As a result of these successful and far-reaching reforms, hospitals were
transformed into autonomous public health institutions. Cost recovery mechanisms were put in
place and are yielding positive results. Preliminary findings from a beneficiary assessment
confirm that the population is willing to pay for health care provided that it is of good quality.
Expected impact of the project
The various components of the project are aimed at reducing the mortality from common
diseases, particularly malaria, by ensuring a better utilization of health facilities for the delivery
of quality health care to the vast majority of the population (which would be more satisfied with
the services provided) and by organizing mosquito control activities to reduce the incidence of
malaria. Under the project, the under-five mortality rate is expected to decrease from an



Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 2: Page 2 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
estimated 150 per thousand in 1995 to 100 per thousand by the mid-term review and to 80 per
thousand by the end of the project. Also, the number of deaths due to malaria among under-five
children is expected to decrease from an estimated 800 per year at present to 700 per year by the
mid-term review and to 500 per year by the end of the project.
Project Component 1: Rehabilitation and equipment oi Selected Health Facilities -
US$ 3.1 million (total cost of component), to be financed by the IDA credit.
Context
In order for health centers and hospitals to attract patients and provide proper health care, the
Government continues to place a high priority on rehabilitarting health facilities. In- 1995, a major
rehabilitation program for health facilities began under the IDA financed ongoing PHR Project.
In parallel, the PHR Project has been financing on the job training for all health workers in
management and health care delivery techniques. These training activities are expected to enable
health personnel to deliver good quality health care.
Expected impact
This component, together with the training of health personnel included in component 3 on
institutional strengthening, is expected to increase the beneficiary satisfaction with the services
provided and, therefore, to increase the utilization of health facilities, as measured by the number
of curative visits per capita per year, which would increase from an estimated 0.4 at present to
0.8 at mid-term and to 1.0 by the end of the project.
Hombo Hospital--Anjouan
The Hombo Hospital in Anjouan is the reference hospital for approximately 200,000 inhabitants.
Significant parts of the hospital including the surgery and maternity wings were rehabilitated
under the on-going PHR Project. The main objective of the proposed rehabilitation will be to
ensure that the hospital is capable of charging fees for quality services rendered. Experience
shows that hospital receipts are mainly derived from the dispensary, the clinic which has
individual more luxurious rooms, the radiology department, and the pharmacy. As a result of
this analysis, the project will finance the rehabilitation of the above mentioned parts of the
hospital. This will enable the hospital to generate enough revenue to subsidize its less profitable
units and operate even if it does not receive operating subsidies from the MOH which will
probably be the case judging from the previous track record. All rehabilitations will be
undertaken using the most cost-effective solution.
The base cost for the rehabilitation and equipment of the Hombo Hospital is estimated at
$1,010,000.



Project Appraisal Document                                      Annex 2: Page 3 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros            Project Title: Health Project
The following units will be rehabilitated:
Dispensary              $130,000
Clinic                  $200,000
Radiology               $ 37,500
Miscellaneous           $ 62,500
Total                   $500,000
The following wings will be equipped:
Radiology               $300,000
Clinic                  $ 20,000
External consultations  $ 135,000
Generator               $ 25,000
Vehicle                 $ 30,000
Total                   $510,000
Domoni Medical and Surgical Center--Anjouan
The Domoni Medical and Surgical Center, located less than 50 kilometers from the Hombo
Hospital, could provide primary health care to about one half of Anjouan's population, or about
100,000 people. The center has not been properly maintained due to MOH's lack of funds. The
same underlying principle of rehabilitation used for the Hombo Hospital in Anjouan will apply to
this health facility. This is to say that Domoni's high revenue generating services will be fully
rehabilitated and equipped thereby ensuring that the center will have sufficient receipts to
subsidize other less profitable units and operate even if the Ministry of Health does not provide
any operating subsidies. Given the proximity of the Hombo Hospital, the Domoni Medical and
Surgical Center will operate as a primary health care center, therefore its rehabilitation will not
include surgical units.
The base cost for the equipment and rehabilitation of the Domoni Medical and Surgical Center is
estimated at US$ 478,000.
The following units will be rehabilitated:
Dispensary              $190,000
Hospitalization         $ 42,500
Laboratory              $ 35,000
Maternity               $ 27,500
Total                   $295,000



Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 2: Page 4 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
In addition, the following wings will be equipped:
Maternity                $ 35,000
Laboratory               $ 28,500
Clinic                   $ 20,000
Hospitalization          $ 57,000
External consultations   s 10,000
Generator                $ 7,500
Vehicle                  S 30,000
Total                    $188,000
Mitsamiouli Medical and Surgical Center-Grande Comore
The Mitsamiouli Medical and Surgical Center is situated in the northern part of Grande Comore.
The center comparatively speaking is in fairly good shape due to the fact that American
missionaries were heavily involved. The situation has changed since these missionaries have
left. However, the center still manages to charge for services including hospitalizations since the
inhabitants of the region receive financial support from relatives abroad and therefore are
wealthier, willing and able to pay for quality health care. Civil works will consist once again in
the rehabilitation of revenue generating entities of the health facility in order for it to generate as
much revenue as possible by charging for quality services and be able to subsidize less profitable
parts of the health facility and operate even if operating subsidies are not received from the
MOH.
T-he base cost for the equipment and rehabilitation of the Mitsamiouli Medical and Surgical
Center is estimated at US$ 927,900.
T-he following units will be rehabilitated:
Clinic                   $135,000
Hospitalization          $144,000
Emergency                  $56,400
Surgery                  $120,000
Maternity                 $1 18,000
Total                     $573,400



Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 2: Page 5 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
The following wings will be equipped:
Maternity                $34,500
Laboratory               $28,500
Clinic                   $20,000
Dentistry                $45,000
Generator                $25,000
Vehicle                   $15,000
Radiology                $90,000
Intensive care           $36,000
Surgery, sterilization   $61,000
Total                    $354,500
Health Facilities in Moheli
A provision of US$ 100,000 has been made for further rehabilitation activities for the Fombouni
Hospital as well as the Wanani Health Center. For the Fombouni Hospital, it is envisaged that a
private clinic would be added to this facility as a means for it to generate further revenue for the
Wanani Health Center, it is envisaged that the site would be extended to include 2 to 3 more
rooms for hospitalization.
A detailed proposal including architectural designs, detailed cost estimates and bidding
documents would have to be reviewed by the Bank prior to final approval of the works.
Implementation
In order for these rehabilitation efforts to have a maximum impact in the context of the health
sector reforms, the General Directorate of Supervision, Structures and Means (Direction
Generale de la Tutelle, des Structures et des Moyens - DGTSM) will have to collaborate closely
with MOH's Regional Directorates, the project implementation unit (Cellule d'execution du
Projet - CEP), the Boards of Directors and the Management Committees of the health facilities.
MOH lacks the expertise to supervise major civil works. Therefore, an engineering/architectural
consulting firm acceptable to IDA will be recruited to finalize the architectural designs, prepare
bidding documents and participate in bid evaluation. In addition, it will supervise the selected
contractors to ensure that works are undertaken based on the agreed upon architectural drawings
and specifications. Finally, this firm will issue the substantial and final completion certificates
for the works.
The General Directorate of Supervision, Structures and Means (DGTSM) will: (a) participate in
the selection of the engineering/architectural consulting firm; (b) work with the Project
Implementation Unit (CEP) to finalize architectural drawings and equipment lists; (c) approve
the detailed cost estimates; (d) participate in the evaluation of bids and the recommendations for
awards; (e) and participate in the supervision of the works and in the substantial and final



Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 2: Page 6 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
completion of works processes.
The Project Implementation Unit (Cellule d'Execution du Projet - CEP) will: (a) establish the
timetable and budget for the component; (b) prepare the documentation to recruit the
engineering/architectural consulting firm, call for proposals, evaluate the proposals received and
make recommendations for the selection of a firm; (c) prepare the bidding documents for works
and goods, call for bids, evaluate the bids and make recommendations for awards; (d) supervise
the works and participate in the substantial and final com[pletion of works processes; (e) ensure
receipt and appropriate delivery of equipment; and (f) prepare the borrower's part of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The Boards of Directors and Management Committees of the health facilities will: (a) define
clearly their needs in terms of rehabilitation and equipment; (b) be consulted prior to the
finalization of the architectural drawings, equipment lists and implementation timetables; and (c)
participate in the review process for the substantial and final completion of works and in the
delivery of equipment.
The Regional Health Directorates will participate in the supervision of works and in the review
process for the substantial and final completion of works.
The General Directorate of Public Works (Direction Gdnerale des Travaux Publiques) will
ensure adequacy of proposed rehabilitations and will be part of the committee which will prepare
bidding documents, evaluate bids and make recommendations for awards.
Project Component 2: Control of malaria - US$ 3.9 million (total cost of component), to be
financed by IDA  credit: $2.3 million; WHO: $0.41 million; UNICEF: $0.13 million;
beneficiaries: $0.9 million; and Government: $0.12 million.
Context
In Comoros, as in most Sub-Saharan Africa, vector-borne diseases, in particular malaria and
diarrhea diseases, remain among the most important causes of morbidity and deaths. Malaria,
alone, is responsible for 10 to 20 percent of all deaths of children between 0 and 5 years of age,
20 to 25 percent of hospital admissions and close to half of the ambulatory consultations.
In the case of malaria, the Government in collaboration with WHO and UNICEF has taken a
number of proactive steps to put in place a control program in all three islands. Health facilities
have been provided with guidelines for diagnosing and treating malaria. Commendable efforts
have been made to ensure regular availability of drugs required for the treatment and
chemoprophylaxis of malaria. In addition, district hospitals have been equipped with equipment
for laboratory diagnosis, such as microscopes. Recently,, concerns about the development of
drug-resistance have led the Government to revise its strategy regarding vector-borne diseases.
The new strategy combines two complementary approaches, namely (a) the strengthening of
general health services to ensure chemoprophylaxis, adequate diagnosis, and appropriate
treatment, and (b) improving the capability for control of disease transmission, through mosquito



Project Appraisal Document                                              Annex 2: Page 7 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                   Project Title: Health Project
control. The strategy is supported by donors, particularly WHO and UNICEF. WHO is
committed and will continue to finance the malaria related activities in the health centers
(training of health staff, supply of anti-malarial drugs, etc.). UNICEF has agreed to contribute to
community mobilization activities and provide selected equipment to MOH's Directorate of
Endemic and Epidemiological Diseases. The proposed activities are based on several pilot
interventions for mosquito control during the last 50 years.
Expected impact
This component is expected to decrease the number of deaths due to malaria among under-five
children from an estimated 800 per year at present to 700 per year by the mid-term review and to
500 per year by the end of the project.
Description
In addition to case management, the component will support preventive activities directly related
to mosquito control, thus breaking the cycle for the transmission of the parasite. Specific
activities include:
(a) Case management at all levels of the health services (base cost: US$ 0.5 million, to be
financed by WI-HO). This activity aims at improving the diagnosis and treatment of malaria.
Within the context of integrated health services, it will include the training of personnel and
support for the functioning of a formative supervision system at district, regional and national
levels, and it will ensure that the central and the district laboratories are adequately equipped,
staffed with competent personnel and operating satisfactorily, and that drugs are available and
properly used. It will also include the monitoring of drug sensitivity with support to the
operation of sentinel posts for monitoring drug resistance.
The chief medical officers of the health districts will be responsible for the implementation of
this sub-component, with the assistance of the central and regional directorates for training,
supervision and evaluation. The supply of drugs will be the responsibility of PNAC.
(b) Indoor residual house spraving (RHS) (base cost: US$ 0.9 million, to be financed by IDA and
Government). This activity will be limited to areas where malaria and filariosis is highly
transmittable and where the reproduction of the vector takes place in a multitude of gites
larvaires which are scattered and difficult to access. These areas include Moheli (all the three
health districts) and the southwest part of the island of Anjouan (the two health districts of
Pomoni and Sima). The insecticide to be chosen will have a limited toxicity and will not cause
environmental damage. Pyrethrinoide-based insecticides are prime candidates and the insecticide
to be used will be considered after it has been approved by WHO and vector susceptibility tests
completed.
The chief medical officers of the health districts will be responsible for the implementation of
this sub-component, with the assistance of the SLMTV for the selection of insecticides (technical
specifications), the storage and delivery of insecticides to districts, the training of spraying



Project Appraisal Document                                            Annex 2: Page 8 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                  Project Title: Health Project
personnel and the supervision of the spraying, and with the participation of the CEP for the
procurement of insecticides.
Starting in 1999, and every year thereafter, about 13,000 houses (corresponding to a population
of about 65,000) will receive three residual sprayings per year.
(c) Treatment of breeding areas of Anophelines with larvivorous fish or larvicides (base cost:
insignificant - less than $10,000 - to be financed by IDA). This activity will take place mainly in
Grande Comore and in parts of Anjouan where water basins (bassins d'ablution) in dwellings as
well as mosques constitute the only places where the vector is reproduced. This activity will
entail the construction and/or rehabilitation of 9 breedinlg basins, the maintenance of those
breeding basins, and the supply of larva eating fish to the breeding basins and, from them, to the
village cisterns.
The CEP will be responsible for the rehabilitation/construction of the breeding basins. The
SLMTV will be responsible for the supply of fish to the breeding basins, and the health districts
will be responsible for the supply of fish to village cisterns with the active participation of
communities. Regional health teams will carry out intense site supervision to ensure that cisterns
have at all time larva eating fish.
Starting in 1999, and every year thereafter, all the cisterns in 241 villages (211 in Grande
Comore and 30 in Anjouan) will have larva eating fish. The population to be protected by this
activity is estimated at about 345,000 living in about 69,000 houses.
(d) Sunplv. distribution and impregnation of bednets with pyrethroid insecticides (base cost:
US$1.3 million, to be financed by IDA and beneficiaries). This activity's main objective is to
promote the utilization of impregnated bednets at a price which is accessible to the population.
The project will finance the purchase in 1998 of 50,000 bednets which will be distributed to the
health facilities to be sold to households. The proceeds from these sales will be used for the
purchase of additional bednets (20,000 per year in 1999 and thereafter). These bednets will be
impregnated with pyrethrinoide insecticide every 4 to 6 months by the health technician of the
district under the supervision of the health district medical officer.
The procurement of the first 50,000 bednets will be done by the CEP on the basis of technical
specifications prepared by the SLMTV. These bednets will be distributed to health facilities,
using as a basis, the population served.
The number of bednets sold is estimated at 50,000 bednets in 1998, and at 20,000 per year in
1999 and thereafter. The number of bednets to be impregnated is estimated at 60,000 in 1998;
80,000 in 1999; 100,000 in 2000; 120,000 in 2001; and 140,000 in 2002.
(e) IEC campaigns to increase community participation in the control of vector-borne diseases
(base cost: US$ 0.1 million, to be financed by UNICEF). E-very year, three malaria awareness
days will be organized. In addition, information sheets on malaria will be integrated in school
curriculum, and pamphlets will be distributed in all the public areas of each village. The



Project Appraisal Document                                       Annex 2: Page 9 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros              Project Title: Health Project
SLMTV, in collaboration with the IEC division of MOH and with the CEP, will be responsible
for the implementation of this sub-component.
(f) Strengthening MOH's Division for Vector-Borne Diseases - Service de Lutte contre les
Maladies ai Transmission Vectorielle - SLMTV (base cost: US$ 0.6 million, to be financed by
IDA). This will include the rehabilitation of offices and laboratories, the provision of equipment
and technical assistance, as well as logistical support for this MOH division. The CEP, in
collaboration with the SLMTV, will be responsible for the implementation of this sub-
component.
Implementation Arrangements
Generally, the MOH's Division for Vector Borne Diseases (Service de Lutte contre les Maladies
a Transmission Vectorielle-SLMTV) will oversee the implementation of the malaria control
component. The SLMTV will work in close collaboration with the three regional directorates,
the health districts, the project implementation unit (Cellule d'Execution du Projet--CEP), the
PNAC, and the IEC division of MOH. It will also enlist the participation and support of
community groups and village elders (notables) through IEC campaigns at the village level.
More specifically, the SLMTV will: (a) prepare annual work programs explicitly defining the
activities that need to take place during the following year and the corresponding detailed
budgets; (b) prepare the technical specifications for the bednets and insecticides, and for the
breeding basins; (c) deliver larva eating fish to health districts breeding basins; (d) store the
insecticides for house spraying purchased by CEP, and deliver them to the health districts; (e)
train the personnel that will do the indoor residual house spraying, and supervise such spraying;
(f) in collaboration with the IEC division and CEP, implement the sub-component to increase
community participation; (g) in collaboration with CEP, implement the sub-component for the
strengthening of SLMTV; (h) closely liaise with UNICEF and WV-HO; and (i) prepare quarterly
progress reports including the monitoring of mortality and morbidity indicators.
The health districts will be responsible for the case management sub-component, the sale of
bednets to households, the impregnation of bednets, the delivery of larva eating fish to village
cisterns, and the indoor residual house spraying.
The CEP will be responsible for the initial purchase of 50,000 bednets and for the procurement,
through WHO, of insecticides, the construction/rehabilitation of breeding basins, the logistical
aspects of the IEC campaigns to increase community participation, and the strengthening of the
SLMTV.
The PNAC will be responsible for the supply of drugs for case management and
chemoprophylaxis.
Community groups will be responsible for creating malaria awareness among the population in
order to ensure in particular that impregnated bednets are actually used and that cisterns keep
containing larva eating fish.



Project Appraisal Document                                       Annex 2: Page 10 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros              Project Title: Health Project
Project Component 3: Institutional Strengthening to Facilitate and Support the Increased
Utilization of Quality care by the Population and the Further Implementation of the Health
Sector Reforms - US$ 2.4 million (total cost of component), to be financed by the IDA credit.
Context
Health sector reforms have already yielded positive results on the ground. However much
remains to be accomplished in order for these reforms to have a long-term positive impact on the
Comorian health system. The MOH needs guidance oni how best to fulfill its new mandate.
MOH does not have the capacity to supervise properly the various on-going health projects,
including the planning and monitoring of national as well as regional health policies and
strategies. In addition, MOH has not been able to coordinate the external aid flowing into the
health sector, therefore it is not making optimum use of its resources. Even though financial as
well as managerial audits are undertaken on a piecemea,l basis, MOH lacks the expertise and
leverage to provide constructive recommendations as to how best improve the situation in the
various health facilities. Despite donor financing, for a variety of reasons, MOH has not been
able to put in place a viable health statistics system and therefore health statistics are virtually
non-existent. On the management side, MOH lacks the capacity to properly manage its
personnel, and make the necessary personnel assignments; therefore several key positions such as
midwives and accountants are currently vacant. Also, MOH is not in a position to judge, or even
less to quantify the resources necessary to put in place various programs at the level of each
health facility. Finally, without some form of health insurance or other social protection
mechanism, there is a risk that the sustainability of the cost recovery system may be achieved at
the expense of equity.
Particularly noteworthy among the health sector reforms was the implementation of an important
personnel redeployment plan. Five hundred non-qualified workers were laid off in 1994 and the
Ministry's skill mix was reassessed to ensure that health facilities had the most suitable
candidates in each position. Seventy five health workers were transferred among the various
health facilities and 127 licensed health practitioners were recruited to fill in key positions. In
addition, ten Comorian doctors who were studying abroad were offered a competitive package to
return home after studying abroad. Finally, there are still doctors studying abroad who will
return by December 1998. The ongoing PHR Project includes an important training program
consisting of both short-term and long-term training in Comoros by the Centre National de
Formation et de Recherche en SantJ Publique (CNFRSP) with the support of an expatriate
consultant and the participation of a foreign training institution. This training program, which
started in June 1997, is covering: the new administrative organization and management
modalities and procedures of the health system; proficiency in health care priority programs; IEC
tools, methods and practices; laboratory techniques; and use of computing for management and
health statistics.
The objective of this component is to eliminate certain key elements impeding on the reform
process and to upgrade the skill mix of MOH staff. This will include the provision of: (a) further
training of MOH and health center staff; (b) specialized technical assistance in management,



Project Appraisal Document                                             Annex 2: Page 11 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                   Project Title: Health Project
programming, health sector finance and select public health programs such as malaria; (c) long-
term technical assistance in health sector management; (d) equipment and supplies in order for
MOH to properly operate; and (e) funds to study mechanisms to put in place a health insurance
scheme which corresponds to the country's demographics as well as the financial situation of the
population.
Expected Impact
The component is expected to enable various MOH units to operate in accordance with their
responsibilities under the health sector reforms and to increase the professional competence of
health facility personnel for the delivery of quality health care. It will also prepare the ground for
the introduction of some form of health insurance.
Description
(a) Training of MOH and Health Facility Staff (base cost: US$ 1.5 million, to be financed by
IDA). The training program will complement the training provided under the ongoing project
and will strengthen technical competencies at all levels. It will develop clinical, preventive and
health care and IEC skills of health facility personnel, and MOH staff skills to manage the health
system. The program will continue to be based on in-country short-term as well as longer-term
training. For long-term training, diplomas will be awarded in order to increase the number of
staff with post-baccalaureate diplomas.
The staff of MOH central units will receive short-term training in techniques for supervision
(tutelle), planning and programming, administrative management, IEC, as well as legal aspects
and issues of the health sector and personnel management, and computing for the production and
management of national health and epidemiological statistics. The staff of MOH regional
directorates will receive short-term training in techniques for delegated supervision, and
integration, planning and monitoring of priority programs, as well as in the collection and
processing of health and epidemiological data at the regional level, and the production of IEC
materials also at the regional level.
MOH staff in both central units and regional directorates will receive long-term training in: (i)
economics and management of health and social institutions; (ii) law and regulations on
administrative, health and social matters; and (iii) public health, community health,
epidemiology and statistics. Six staff of MOH central units will also receive long-term training
in the pedagogy of health sciences (training of trainers).
The personnel of health facilities will receive short-term training in public health and on-the-job
training in medical techniques (doctors, midwives and nurses), as well as practical training in
IEC in health centers and health posts. Long-term training will involve the specialization
(similar to an initial basic training) of health care personnel: nurses in anesthesiology, operating
room technicians, surgical instruments assistants, and pharmacist assistants.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 2: Page 12 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
More than 400 staff will be trained (mostly in 1999 and 2000), with the following distribution by
category and over time:
MOH        MOH        Health     Total
central    regional   facilities
units      units
By the mid-term review
short-term training                  40         18         210        268
long-tern training                   26          3          40         69
Sub-total                            66         21         250        337
At the end of proiect                       _
short-term training                  40         1 8        210        268
long-term training                   46          9          88         143
Grand total                          86         27         298        411
(b) Logistical Support to MOH's Central and Regional Directorates and to PNAC (base cost:
US$ 0.7 million, to be financed by IDA). In order for the central and 3 regional directorates to
be able to fulfill their mandate of properly following up on the reform process at the level of
health facilities, a vehicle, a motorcycle and basic office equipment will be provided for each
regional directorate. The Pharmacie Nationale Autonome des Comores, or PNAC, will also be
provided with some essential equipment. Finally, this sub-component includes technical
assistance for a total of 48 person/months.
(e) Mutual Health Insurance Scheme (base cost: US$ 0.1 million, to be financed by IDA). The
project will finance operational research in mutual insurance mechanisms for health coverage.
This will include the development in selected sites of Anjouan and Moheli of community based
health insurance scheme taking into account lessons learnt from a UNDP financed project in the
health district of Mitsoudj&Hambou. On the basis of lessons learnt, a proposal will be made at
the time of the mid-term review to replicate the most appropriate scenario nationwide.
Implementation Arrangements
Training Activities will be implemented through the MOH's training center, Centre National de
Formation et de Recherche en Sante Publique (CNFRSP). MOH's Training and Research
Division will be responsible for reviewing curricula to ensure that it is consistent with its general
orientations. The CEP will be responsible for inviting proposals from short-listed firms and
making recommendations for the selection of a specialized training institution from abroad which
will be responsible for long-term training activities. This training facility will have to be able to
award diplomas.
Regarding the logistical support to MOH's Central and Re gional Directorates and to PNAC, the
CEP will be responsible for the procurement of the vehicles, motorcycles and office equipment
and for ensuring their proper delivery to the three Regional directorates; it will do the same for
the equipment to be provided to PNAC. As to the technical assistance, the CEP will recruit the



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 2: Page 13 of 13
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                          Project Title: Health Project
consultants and consulting firms on the basis of terms of reference prepared in consultation with
the users of that technical assistance.
For the mutual health insurance scheme, the CEP will recruit an international consulting firm
with prior experience in health insurance schemes in developing countries. In this context, it will
be responsible for finalizing the terms of reference with the Secretary General of MOH,
preparing the short-list of potential consulting firms, review proposals and recruit the most
suitable firm. In addition, three nationals with experience in health sector management issues
will work with the international team in order to provide the Comorian perspective. They could
also be utilized as resource persons when the agreed upon health insurance system will actually
be put in place.
Note: A Project Implementation Manual prepared by MOH, which includes more details on the project's objectives,
description, timetable and modalities of implementation as well as costs, can be found in the project file. This
document will be used as a basis for field supervision during the project implementation phase.






Project Appraisal Document                                                        Annex 3: Page I of I
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                             Project Title: Health Project
Annex 3
Health Project
Estimated Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Project Component                                 Local        Foreign         Total
(1) Rehabilitation of Selected Health Facilities     -            2.6           2.6
(2) Control of malaria                              0.3           3.2           3.5
(3) Institutional Strengthening                _       _2.2                     2.2
Sub-total Project Components                        0.3           8.0           8.3
Project Implementation Unit                         0.5           0.1           0.6
Total Baseline Cost                                 0.8           8.1           8.9
Physical Contingencies                         _       _0.3                     0.3
Price Contingencies                                 0.1           0.7           0.8
Total Project Cost                                  0.9           9.1          10.0*
* Excluding USD$ 700,000 for duties and taxes.






Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 4: Page I of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
Annex 4
Health Project
Financial and Economic Analysis
I. Introduction
The project development objective is to reduce the mortality from common diseases, particularly
malaria, by ensuring a better utilization of health facilities for the delivery of quality health care
to the vast majority of the population and by organizing mosquito control activities to reduce the
incidence of malaria. The principal outcome / impact of the project will be a reduction in the
under-five mortality rate from 100 per thousand in 1996 to 90 per thousand by the mid-term
review and to 75 per thousand by the end of the project; also, the number of deaths due to
malaria among under-five children is expected to decrease from an estimated 800 per year at
present to 700 per year by the mid-term review and to 500 per year by the end of the project.
This annex examines the following aspects of the financial analysis and economic justification of
the project: (a) economic and sectoral context; (b) financial analysis of the health sector; (c) cost-
effectiveness analysis for the rehabilitation and equipment of selected health facilities; (d) cost-
effectiveness analysis for the control of malaria; and (e) cost-effectiveness analysis for the
institutional strengthening.
II. Economic and sectoral context
The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is one of the poorest countries in the world, with real
per capita income of about US$ 460 (1996) and an estimated human development index of 0.331.
Independent since 1975, the country suffers from a weak administrative apparatus and a shortage of
qualified personnel on all levels of the public administration and the private sector. The technical
and administrative constraints are compounded by growing foreign trade imbalances (with the drop
in the prices of vanilla, ylang-ylang and other export crops, and the increasing imports of food stuff,
particularly rice), inadequate basic infrastructure, lopsided national income distribution, the
inappropriate framework of institutions, laws, and regulations, and the adverse effects of population
growth.
Under these conditions, the drastic measures taken in the context of the structural adjustment
program to bring about macroeconomics reforms have been unable to reverse the pattern of
sluggishness and social regression observed in recent years. On balance, the results of the reforms
have been very modest although they have led to a substantial reduction in the budget deficit and
stabilized inflation. However, these results have been obtained through sacrifices, extremely high
social costs, and stagnation in investments. The country's health sector has been hardest hit. Its
budgetary allocations represent about 5% - 6% of the country's consolidated budget, a far cry from
the 10% recommended by the WHO. Those allocations have been to a great extent theoretical
since operating subsidies are not paid to health facilities (exceptionally, 1995 allocations were paid
in 1996) and the payment of salaries to civil servants is very irregular. The inadequacy of this
government financing is in complete contrast to the official policy that gives priority to the social



Project Appraisal Document                                              Annex 4: Page 2 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                    Project Title: Health Project
sectors. On the other hand, the contribution of the population to the operating costs of the health
sector has been increasing substantially in recent years.
Over the last five years (1993-1997), annual spending on health in Comoros represented on average
about US$ 14 per capita, or about 3% of GDP.
The project has been designed taking into account the quickly changing economic, sociological
and political environment and the important changes in the distribution of responsibilities in the
functioning of the health system. The consequences of this rapid socio-economic evolution are
reflected in the choice of the objectives that have been selected to define the project components,
which have also been influenced by the constraints facing the sector. It would be unrealistic to
expect that the Government could make any significant contribution to the financing of the
sector. The shift away from Government towards user financing seems irreversible; it should be
encouraged and facilitated, together with the promotion of measures to develop savings,
solidarity and social protection.
Realistic and pragmatic economic objectives are, therefore, absolutely necessary for the project.
They can be summarized as follows:
(a) to strengthen the productive capacity (for preventive as well as curative care) of the health
system;
(b) to support the central units of MOH to enable them to exercise their new responsibilities for
supervision (tutelle), planning and evaluation;
(c) to give the priority to investments capable of:
*  generating additional financial resources (rehabilitation of health facilities, improvement of
the quality of health care through training, etc.);
*  reducing expenditures (control of malaria);
*  promoting the development of a local economic activity (financing of new equipment for
PNAC, etc.); and
*  facilitating the establishment of a mechanism for the financing of health insurance and the
development of savings.
The contents of the project have been carefully selected on the basis of the following criteria: (i)
Government's priorities and its concern for national reconciliation; (ii) the socio-economic and
political context; (iii) the performance of the health system and of the MOH; (iv) the results and
impact (or lack thereof) of past experiences; (v) the implications of the different components
regarding the needs for operation and maintenance and the nleans (available or to be provided) to
cover those needs; (vi) the components' impact on development, and on the revenues of health
facilities as well as on the health of the population; and (vii) the financing that could be provided
by other donors in the context of other projects or programs.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Annex 4: Page 3 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
III. Financial analysis of the health sector
To address the many problems in the sector, the country adopted in 1991 a national health
development plan - revised in 1993 - which sets out the main priorities for the country's health
policy to the year 2010. This was done in response to the 1978 Alma-Ata Declaration, the 1987
Bamako Initiative, and the three-phase health development scenario (Lusaka-Zambia, 1985), which
the country has adhered to. In parallel, Comoros initiated comprehensive reforms of its health
system, with the introduction of more or less complete autonomy for the health facilities and of
community participation in the financing and management of those health facilities. The design
and implementation of those reforms were supported by the ongoing Population and Human
Resources Project. The proposed project (physical rehabilitationand equipment of health facilities,
malaria control and institutional strengthening) is consistent with the country's priorities and will
continue to support the reforms. The present section analyses the financial situation of the health
sector.
Overall, the sources of financing of health expenditures - which represent the different players
involved in health services spending - can be grouped into four main categories:
.  The Government's budget:  ordinary and special budget items covering operating and
investment costs;
* Official foreign aid: (grants and loans) included in the public investmentprogram (PIP);
*  Unofficial foreign aid: (grants only) not included in the PIP; and
*  Community financing: user fees and revenues from the sale of drugs.
Table 1 presents an overall picture of the financing of the health sector over the last five years
(1993-1997). The following paragraphs discuss the government budget and community financing,
and attempt to present in Tables 6 and 7 a forecast for the financing of the health sector for the next
five years (1998-2002).



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 4: Page 4 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                        Project Title: Health Project
Table I
Financing of the Health Sector (1993-1997)
(in thousands US $)
1993    1994    1995    1996       1997
Investment Costs                              840    1,212    1,387   1,010      1,087
Financing
Government Budget
Loans                                         238      367     415      340        366
Grants                                        442      682      770     631        680
Communities                                    -        38       20      -
NGOs                                          160       125     182      39         41
Total Financing                               840    1,212   1,387    1,010       1,087
Operating Expenses of MOH, including priority
programs                                     2,359   2,765   2,590    2,445      2,501
Financing
Govemment Budget                              545      532      512     248        400
Loans                                         425      7t82     802     769        735
Grants                                       1,389   1,451   1,276   1,428       1,366
Total Financing                              2,359   2,765   2,590   2,445       2,501
Operating Expenses of Health Facilities      3,099   2,933   3,743   2,573       5,442
Financing
GovernmentBudget                              1,165    1,'138    1,088  527       1,100
Loans                                          234      183     266      152       728
Grants                                         434     339      493     281       1,353
Communities                                    758     876    1,319   1,219      1,847
NGO                                            508      397     577     394        414
Total Financing                              3,099   2,933   3,743    2,573      5,442
Total Financing of the Health Sector         6,298   6,910   7,720    6,028      9,030



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Annex 4: Page 5 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                           Project Title: Health Project
A. GovernmentBudget
Trends in budget allocations
Budget allocations for health were virtually stagnant from 1993 to 1997 (Table 2), growing only at
about 1% a year, which is lower than growth in GDP (1.3% a year) or the population growth rate
(3.1%).
In 1996, the government allocated US$ 2.28 million to the health sector, or about 5.4% of the
national budget. Of this allocation, 71% was to be spent on salaries, 7% on goods and services, and
22% on subsidies (Table 3). In 1997 the budget assumes an increase of less than 1% over 1996
(US$ 2.29 million), with 78% to be spent on salaries, 5% on goods and services and 17% on
subsidies.
Table 2
Trends in Budget Allocations for Health
(In US$ million)
1993      1994       1995       1996      1997
Health Budget                       2.26       2.27       2.20      2.28       2.29
Governmentbudget(total)             33.82     37.67      39.97      42.18     41.18
Allocations for Health as % of total
budget                              6.7%       6.0%       5.5       5.4%       5.6%
Table 3
Theoretical Distribution of Health Expenditures
(in US$ million)
1993         1994           1995         1996          1997
$ M.   %    S M.   %    $M.   %    $M.   %    $M.   %
Personnel               1.58    70    1.50    66    1.56    71    1.62    71    1.79    78
Goods and services      0.57    25   0.70    31   0.16       7    0.16     7    0.11     5
Subsidies               0.11     5    0.07     3    0.48    22    0.50    22    0.39    17
Total for Health        2.26   100   2.27   100   2.20   100   2.28   10o   2.29   100
Budget execution: difficulties and prospects
Table 4 below summarizes data regarding the execution of the budget from 1993 to 1996 and
provides an estimate for 1997, whereas Table 5 shows the percentages of realization by categories
of expenditures.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 4: Page 6 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                         Project Title: Health Project
Table 4
Execution of the health budget
(In US$ million)
1993      1994      1995       1996      1997
Health budget               2.26       2.27      2.20      2.28       2.29
Execution of Health Budget  1.71       1.67      1.60      0.78       1.50
Percentage of Execution     76%       74%        73%       34%       66%
Table 5
Execution of the Health Budget by categories of expenditures
Percentages of Realization
1993          1994           1995           1996           1997
$M.    %       $M.    %      $M.    %/0   $M.    %         $M.    %
Personnel    1.58    100    1.50    100    1.15    74    0.78    48    1.50    84
Goods/      0.11     20    0.15     21      0       0      0       0      0       0
services
Subsidies    0.02    18   0.02    29    0.45    93;         0      0      0       0
Total
Health      1.71    76    1.67    74    1.60    73    0.78    34    1.50    66
Clearly, Goverm-nent experienced great difficulties to execute its approved budget. In practice,
since 1991 budget execution is more or less limited to the payment of salaries of civil servants, and
even those are not always paid on time. Arrears have started to accumulate in 1995 and have been
particularly important in 1996, so that at present cumulative arrears represent about ten months
salaries. Regarding the operating subsidies for health facilities, the amount actually paid has varied
between 0 and 20% of the budget allocation. The only exception has been the year 1995, the first
year of implementation of the financial and budgetary autonomy of health facilities, when operating
subsidies were paid in full at the beginning of 1996.
In 1997, no health facility has received any operating subsidy, but on the other hand the
performance of the Government for the payment of salaries for the first nine months has been better
than in 1996. The estimate of US$ 1.5 million equivalent for government financing (budget
realization) for 1997 would represent about 15 percent of the total financing for the health sector as
a whole (Table 1).
B. CommunityFinancing
The current reform of the health system is betting on cost recovery from the community, and is on
its way to winning the bet judging from the results obtained in hospitals and health districts. If the
system is not fully satisfactory yet, it is not because of the inability of the communities to pay but
rather the result of poor structural organization in the sector and the fact that adequate financial
management systems are not fully operational in all health facilities.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Annex 4: Page 7 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                   Project Title: Health Project
An analysis of cash generation by health facilities undertaken recently in connection with the
introduction of new management tools indicates that one can be reasonably optimistic about the
ability of those facilities to raise revenues since even the most optimistic forecasts have been
exceeded. Table 1 shows a very substantial increase in revenues from communities over the past
five years; those revenues include both user fees and receipts from the sale of drugs. In particular,
cost recovery in 1997 is estimated at the equivalent of about US$ 1.85 million, an increase of about
50 percent over the revenues collected in 1996. In 1997, community financing would represent
about 20 percent of the total financing for the health sector as a whole and would cover about one-
third of the operating expenses of health facilities.
C. Financing of the Health Sector for the next five years (1998-2002)
Financial forecasts for the next five years shown in Tables 6 and 7 are based on the following
assumptions derived in part from past experience in the health sector:
* Government contribution to the financing of the health sector (in the range of US$ 1.7 million
per year) will cover essentially the salaries and other personnel costs of civil servants working
in the MOH or in health facilities. Of course, the Government will also have to service the debt
incurred for the health sector, but this debt servicing is not included in the financial forecasts
shown in Tables 6 and 7.
* Government will mobilize the necessary financing, in the form of loans and grants, from donors
to cover all of the investments costs and part of the operating expenses of the sector, including
major rehabilitation of structures, equipment replacement and training of health personnel.
*  Health facilities will be able to generate enough revenue to operate and maintain their
structures and equipment, even if they do not receive operating subsidies from the
Government.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 4: Page 8 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                        Project Title: Health Project
Table 6
Financing of the Health Sector for the five-year period 1998-2002
(in M. US $)    %
InvestmentCosts                                                 4.6
Financing
GovernmentBudget
Loans                                                            3.5
Grants                                                           0.9
Communities
NGOs                                                             0.2
Total Financing                                                 4.6          10
Operating Expenses of MOH, including priority programs          13.2
Financing
GovernmentBudget                                                 2.1
Loans                                                            4.0
Grants                                                           7.1
Total Financing                                                 13.2         30
Operating Expenses of Health Facilities                         26.2
Financing
Government Budget                                                6.4
Loans                                                            4.0
Grants                                                           3.8
Communities                                                     10.0
NGOs                                                             2.4
Total Financing                                                 26.6         60
Total Financing of the Health Sector                            44.4         100



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 4: Page 9 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                     Project Title: Health Project
Table 7
Summary of health sector financing forecast for 1998-2002
inM.US$          %
Governmentbudget                              8.5           19
Loans                                        11.5           26
Grants                                       11.8           26
Communities                                  10.0           23
NGOs                                          2.6            6
Total                                        44.4           100
The assumption that health facilities will not receive any operating subsidies is realistic in view
of the deplorable track record of the Government. It is also realistic to assume that health
facilities will be able to collect from communities the equivalent of about US$ 2.0 million per
year and to operate even without operating subsidies from Government provided, however, that:
(i) health facility personnel who are civil servants are paid regularly by Government; (ii) the cost
of training health personnel is financed by Government or donors (ii) major physical
rehabilitation of structures and equipment replacement are financed by Government or donors;
(iii) health facilities are managed and operated correctly and efficiently; (iv) health facilities can
manage and operate their own pharmacies; and (v) certain parameters (such as the percentage of
health services provided free to those who cannot pay, and the invoicing based on lump sum
amounts) remain within acceptable limits. In the absence of operating subsidies to health
facilities, the regular payment of salaries to civil servants working in those health facilities is
particularly important. If salaries are not paid, the collected user fees and proceeds from the sale
of drugs are likely to be diverted to provide some form of compensation to personnel to enable
them to survive, instead of being used for the purchase of drugs and the operation and
maintenance of the facilities.
The financial forecasts show that a substantially higher level of expenditures for health (close to
US$ 18 per capita, compared to about US$ 14 on average for the last five years) could be achieved
and financed through a reasonable mix of budgetary allocations, grants and loans, and community
contributions. It is worth noting that for the next five years the community contributions would
represent about 23 percent of the total financing for the health sector as a whole, but about 38
percent of the operating expenses of health facilities.
IV. Cost-effectiveness analysis for the rehabilitation and equipment of selected health
facilities
The component to rehabilitate and equip public health facilities is part of the reform of the national
health system launched three years ago, which is based on community participation, autonomous
management of health facilities, user fees for medical care and procedures, sales of drugs, and
decentralization. The effort to rehabilitate and equip is based on the repeatedly-observed fact that
the public is always willing to pay whenever quality care is offered and delivered.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Annex 4: Page 10 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                  Project Title: Health Project
The rehabilitation and equipment of the Hombo hospital and the Domoni medical and surgical
center in Anjouan, the Mitsamiouli medical and surgical center in Grande Comore and of selected
facilities in Moheli are intended to facilitate the delivery of good quality health care to the
population, which will also have a favorable impact on cost recovery by those health facilities. The
component is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 3.1 million, including contingencies.
This component, together with the training of health personnel included in component 3 on
institutional strengthening, is expected to increase the beneficiary satisfaction with the services
provided and, therefore, to increase the utilization of health facilities, as measured by the number
of curative visits per capita per year, which would increase from an estimated 0.4 at present to
0.8 at mid-term and to 1.0 by the end of the project.
The component has been designed taking into account the condition of existing structures and
equipment and the necessity to adopt the most cost-effective solution, through least-cost
rehabilitation and limiting new constructions (the cost of rehabilitation usually vary between 45
and 65 percent of the cost of a new construction) and through the purchase of appropriate
equipment (i.e., the least expensive equipment, but also the one that is the easiest to operate and
maintain). Intended to strengthen the capacity for preventive and curative care, the component
aims at ensuring better case management and at allowing for the hospitalization of patients with a
minimum of comfort, hygiene and cleanliness. Most importantly, the design of the component
has taken into account its direct impact not only on the health of the population but also on the
revenues of the health facilities. During project identification/preparation, two options have been
discussed for the rehabilitation and equipment. The first option consisted of a minimum package
of rehabilitation and equipment with revenue-earning potential and assumed that the health
facilities will be able to operate satisfactorily even if the Government does not provide them with
any operating subsidy. The second option included also additional rehabilitation and equipment
that could be justified only if the Government commits itself to pay operating subsidies. The
adoption of this second option would imply operating costs too high to be covered only by user
fees paid by beneficiaries.
In view of the deplorable track record of the Government f-or the payment of operating subsidies
to health facilities, the minimum package of rehabilitation and equipment has been selected. The
main objective of the component, as now designed, is to ensure that those health facilities are
capable of charging fees for quality services rendered and are financially self-sustaining.
Experience shows that hospital revenues are mainly derivecl from the dispensary, the clinic which
has individual more luxurious rooms, the maternity, the radiology department, and the pharmacy.
For each health facility, the selection of the specific units to be rehabilitated and equipped has
been based on this analysis. This will ensure that the health facilities will be able to generate
enough revenue to subsidize their less profitable units and operate even if they do not receive
operating subsidies from the Government provided, however, that the conditions listed in
paragraph 20 of this annex are met.
The income from user fees and from the sale of drugs has been an indicator of the capacity of health
facilities to self-finance their activities. Despite the many shortcomings in hospital services and the



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 4: Page 11 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
absence of government financing, all the health facilities have been able to maintain a reasonable
level of activity. In this respect, the KMF 21 million, KMF 10 million, and KMF 25 million in
revenues collected respectively at Hombo, Domoni, and Mitsamiouli in 1996 are indicators of the
potential of these health care facilities. At present, the fees introduced in 1995 are only partially
applied in public establishments because of equipment shortcomings and the lack of means in
certain hospitals, especially for hospitalization. Also, activities at Hombo were disrupted during all
of 1996 owing to construction works within the hospital grounds and the unexpected departure of
some doctors to pursue specialized studies, while activities were curtailed at Domoni and
Mitsamiouli mainly because of the absence of a physician. With regard to the regional hospital at
Hombo, many patients from Anjouan are still forced to travel to Grande Comore at considerable
expense if they require special x-rays or an ultrasound which can only be performed at Moroni. If
these tests could be performed in Anjouan, the financial burden on these patients of finding the
money for transportation and accommodation would be alleviated.
Improvements in the availability of equipment and in conditions for hospitalization at the regional
hospital in Hombo and in the medical and surgical centers in Domoni and Mitsamiouli, would
result in a significant increase in the volume of activity at these facilities. It is also likely that an
improvement in the quality of health care would result in increased use of services by the
population. There is no doubt that the rehabilitation and equipment of a number of units at Hombo,
Domoni and Mitsamiouli will lead to a considerable increase in the income they earn, so that they
will no longer be dependent on hypothetical government subsidies. On the basis of the fees in
effect in the different health facilities, the regional hospital in Hombo can be expected to earn
between KMF 60 million and 80 million per year, and the medical and surgical centers at Domoni
and Mitsamiouli between KMF 30 million and 40 million per year.
V. Cost-effectiveness analysis for the control of malaria
The Comorian Government has included control of malaria and Bancroft's filariasis among its top
priorities. In its view, malaria is one of the greatest obstacles to the country's socioeconomic
development. No precise data are available on morbidity and mortality in Comoros. Still,
incomplete hospital statistics suggest that malaria could be responsible for 20% to 25% of hospital
admissions. The magnitude of endemic malaria demonstrated by different parasitological studies
suggests that its incidence is similar to the general estimates for tropical Africa among children
under five, and accounts for 10% to 20% of all deaths in that age group. Parasite studies conducted
between 1950 and 1989 show that the parasite index among children under five ranges from 30% to
80%. The indirect impacts of chronic malaria generally include anemia, low birth weight, and
higher maternal morbidity and mortality. Moheli is known as one of the largest focuses of filariasis
in Africa, with an overt infection rate of 20% in adults (Blanchy & Benthein, 1989). The
debilitatingeffects of this disease are large.
The malaria control component is expected to decrease the number of deaths due to malaria
among under-five children from an estimated 800 per year at present to 700 by the mid-term
review and to 500 by the end of the project. In addition to case management, the component will
support activities directly related to mosquito control, thus breaking the cycle for the
transmission of the parasite. Specific activities include: (a) case management at all levels of the



Project Appraisal Document                                             Annex 4: Page 12 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                    Project Title: Health Project
health services; (b) indoor residual house spraying (RHS); (c) treatment of breeding areas of
anopheles with larvivorous fish or larvicides; (d) supply, distribution and impregnation of
bednets with insecticides; (e) IEC campaigns to increase community participation in the control
of vector-borne diseases; and (f) strengthening MOH's division for vector-borne diseases -
Service de Lutte contre les Maladies a Transmission Vectlorielle - SLMTV. The total cost of the
component is estimated at US$ 3.9 million, including an important contribution of US$ 0.9
million by beneficiaries for the purchase and impregnation of bednets. The reliance on an
integrated program coordinating the activities of health services and communities and developing
complementary vector control as required is the most efficient and cost-effective. The selection
of the specific activities is based on the characteristics of each island which allow for different
approaches with great variances in costs (it is worth noting that the cost of treatment of breeding
areas of anopheles with larvivorous fish or larvicides -- a very effective form of vector control for
Grande Comore -- is negligible).
Malaria has tremendous direct and indirect costs for governments (ministries of health) as well as
family economies, placing a strain on tight family budgets. The direct costs generated by malaria
are basically the expenditures for treatment. Treatment might include drugs, diagnostic tests,
attention from a doctor/nurse/healer, transport and associated out-of-pocket expenses in seeking
treatment (for patient and whoever accompanies him/her) and possibly additional food -- food
losses occur because of the increased rate of metabolism during malaria attacks. The indirect losses
from malarial illness include time lost as a result of temporary disability during the acute illness
stage, debility following disabling malaria which may reduce the efficiency of workers, and the
longer-term effect on future labor supply resulting from. impaired educational achievement in
children as a result of missed schooling or reduced performance in school. Indirect losses may be
incurred not only by the patient but also by others who are caring for the patient (particularly in the
case of ill children) or who substitute for the patient. In addition to the expenses associated with
treatment and the opportunity cost of "lost" or reduced value of time, there are so called "psychic"
costs resulting from the pain, anxiety or loss that accompanies illness or death. The threat or risk of
malaria also generates costs which can be conveniently grouped into the same categories of direct,
indirect and psychic. Direct costs can include the outlays made in chemoprophylaxis (with its
possible risks of side effects as well as its protective role), bed nets, screens, repellents, and vector
control (with its possible negative environmental or health consequences). Indirect costs can be of
two rather different kinds: there are costs associated with strategies to reduce the risk of getting
malaria and costs associated with strategies to ameliorate the economic consequences should
malaria strike. Both the direct and indirect costs of malaria are always difficult to measure or
estimate in most countries, and Comoros is no exception. The best that can be done is to provide an
order of magnitude of the costs involved.
On the basis of 1996 data, the direct health costs linked to malaria (hospitalization, medical
consultations and procedures, and drugs) have been estimated at KMF 1.0 billion (US$ 2.5 million
equivalent) per year on average during the project period. It is expected that, as a result of the
project, there will be a saving of 20% of overall health spending on malaria, or KMF 200 million
(US$0.5 million equivalent) per year. The total savings for the four-year period of the project
would be US$ 2.0 million equivalent.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 4: Page 13 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
On the economic front, the Government views malaria as one of the main causes of absenteeism
from work and school. People are hardest hit by the effects of the disease during the period when
farm work is heaviest and the result is a significant reduction in productivity and economic growth.
At present, however, Comoros has no data to provide a basis for quantifying its economic losses
attributable to malaria and evaluating the extent to which they impede its development. Some
preliminary studies on this subject have recently been conducted in other countries in the region
(Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, and Congo). Malaria research (Lemox, R. W., Vector Biology and
Control Project, Arlington, VA, USA) throughout the African continent as a whole reveals that
while the effective economic cost of malaria at both the individual and household levels is still
largely unknown, significant costs are incurred with respect to time loss, transport to obtain health
care, early death, and health care services. Although some of these factors are measurable, the
extent of under-employment and the seasonal nature of work in rural areas make it difficult to
determine the actual impact of this disease on productivity and development.
The malaria studies conducted in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, and in particular Burkina Faso, assess
the direct costs of treating the disease and carrying out control activities, and the indirect costs
associated with work time lost and early death. These measures have allowed the economic impact
of malaria to be measured and extrapolations to be made as a basis for estimates covering sub-
Saharan Africa as a whole. The value of a productive day is estimated at US$ 0.82. The average
case of malaria results in the loss of 11 work days, or a cost per individual of US$ 9.02, or around
2% of per capita GNP in Comoros. Given the low per capita income (currently equivalent to about
US$ 460 annually), which is increasing at a lower rate than the population, the indirect losses from
malarial illness will therefore be important. Assuming 100,000 thousands cases of malaria in the
adult population per year, the indirect losses would amount to about US$ 900,000 per year, or about
US$ 3.6 million for the four-year project period. The proposed malaria control measures will help
mitigate these losses, or possibly reverse them, owing to their positive effect on total working time.
By putting particular emphasis on prevention and the use of bednets as a means of disease control,
the proposed project will provide a notable opportunityto reduce indirect losses.
It would not make sense to attempt to compute a rate of return for the malaria control component on
the basis of very rough and incomplete estimates of savings in direct costs or indirect losses that
could be avoided. However, in assessing whether it is appropriate for Comoros to spend US$ 3.9
million for malaria control, one should consider the potential savings in direct health costs of US$
2.0 million and the indirect losses of US$ 3.6 million that could be mitigated or avoided. There is
no doubt that a reduction in the incidence of malaria will improve the quality of life of Comorians
and benefit the Comorian economy as a whole, through lower absenteeism and higher productivity.
It will also have an impact on the tourism market, since tourists will be less apprehensive of
contracting the disease.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 4: Page 14 of 14
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros               Project Title: Health Project
VI. Cost-effectiveness analysis for institutional strengthening
Although the institutional strengthening component (total estimated cost of US$ 2.4 million)
includes three sub-components (training, logistical support to MOH, and health insurance
scheme), the cost-effectiveness analysis deals only with training (estimated cost: US$ 1.5
million).
Training will be in-country, and short-term as well as long-term. More than 400 staff will be
trained. Long-term training will benefit about 55 MOH staff and about 90 health facility
personnel. Short-term training will accommodate about 60 MOH staff and about 210 trainees
from health facilities.
The choices made for the definition of the training program are based on an analysis of the
training needs of MOH staff and of health facility personnel. The training program under the
ongoing PHR project covered urgent needs in the areas of administrative and financial
management, reorganization of the central units of MOH and operating modalities of the new
health system. Under the proposed project, training activities will focus on: (i) long-term
training of MOH staff to increase the number of staff vvith post-baccalaureate diplomas; (ii)
short-term training of MOH staff to teach them new techniques and practices necessary for the
proper functioning of the health system (supervision, strategic planning and management,
personnel management, IEC, legal issues of the health sector, health statistics etc.; and (iii) long-
term and short-term training and skills enhancement (for dliagnosis and care) for doctors, health
care staff and medical technicians. For long-term training, diplomas will be awarded.
A conscious choice has been made to continue to develop a local capacity for training in the
Centre National de Formation et de Recherche en Sante Publique (CNFRSP) in Moroni. All
training, whether long-term or short-term, will be in courntry, with the participation of foreign
training institutions. One advantage of this approach is that most of the moneys spent will
remain in Comoros. It is also the most cost-effective way of upgrading the skills of MOH staff
and health professionals. For example, it is estimated that the long-term training of a person in
Comoros will cost from US$ 3,000 to US$ 6,000 per year, as compared to about US$ 20,000 per
year for training abroad. For short-term training, the cost differential is even greater.
In addition to the cost aspect, training in Comoros will also have a number of important
advantages compared to overseas training:
*  it will allow the staff to continue to exercise their professional activity, without prolonged
interruptions;
*  it will permit the adoption of a curriculum focused on local practices and the solution of the
health problems of Comoros or of the problems of health facilities; and
* it will limit the risks which are inherent in overseas training: difficulty to adapt the acquired
knowledge to deal with local problems; possibility that the trainees will not return home or, if
they do return home, will not be assigned to posts with the functions and responsibilities
which the training was supposed to help them carry out.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 5: Page I of I
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                          Project Title: Health Project
Annex 5
Health Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in US$ million)
Implementation Period
Calendar Year          1998      1999     2000      2001      2002         Total
Investmnent costs               1.2      2.3       3.4       1.4      1.1           9.4
Recurrent costs                 0.1      0.1       0.1       0.2      0.1           0.6
Total               1.3      2.4       3.5       1.6       1.2          10.0
Financing Sources
(% of total proiect costs)
IDA                              65       88        92       80        77            84
WHO                              5         4        3         7         4             4
UNICEF                           2         1         1        2         3             2
Government                       2         1        -         1         2             1
Beneficiaries                    26        6        4         10       14             9
Total               100      100       100       100       100          100.0
Main assumptions:
See detailed cost estimates in the Project Implementation Manual.
The IDA credit will finance 100% (net of taxes) of expenditures for components I (rehabilitation and
equipment of selected health facilities) and 3 (institutional strengthening to facilitate and support the
increased utilization of quality care by the population and the further implementation of the health sector
reform), as well as for parts of component 2 on the control of malaria (i.e. the indoor residual house
spraying, the treatment of breeding areas with larvicides, the strengthening of MOH division for vector-
borne diseases, and the initial batch of impregnated bednets). For the remaining parts of component 2 on
the control of malaria, WHO will finance case management, UNICEF will finance IEC to increase
community participation, and beneficiaries will pay for impregnated bednets.






Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 6: Page 1 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros             Project Title: Health Project
Annex 6
Health Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
This project is a follow-up to the health component of the on-going PHR Project. The project
implementation unit (Cellule d'Execution du Projet - CEP) is staffed with a competent local
procurement specialist who has also been trained in Bank procurement procedures, and
procurement performance under the on-going project has been satisfactory.
Goods and works financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996. Consultancy services would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
published in January 1997.
Civil Works. Civil works contracts exceeding $100,000 per contract for the rehabilitation of
hospitals and medical and surgical centers will be procured under ICB procedures in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines. Civil works contracts costing more than $30,000 but less than
$100,000 in aggregate would be paid through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Rehabilitation and construction of small health infrastructure, including the MOH's training
center and concrete tanks for larvivorous fish for the malaria component, which are expected to
cost the equivalent of or less than $30,000 per contract for an aggregate amount of $70,000 will
be procured through obtaining at least three bids from small, experienced local contractors.
Goods. Contracts for goods such as hospital, medical and laboratory equipment, an initial supply
of mosquito nets, spraying equipment for insecticides, vehicles and office equipment costing
more than $100,000 per contract will be purchased through ICB procedures in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts for goods and office equipment available locally which cost
more than $30,000 but less than or equal to $100,000 per contract, for an aggregate amount of
$200,000, will be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small quantities of
goods and office equipment expected to cost less than $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of $200,000, would be procured through national shopping based on price quotations
obtained from three reliable suppliers. Purchase of anti-malarial insecticides under four annual
contracts for a total amount of $900,000 will be arranged through the procurement services of the
WHO.
Consultant Services. These types of services, for an aggregate amount of US$ 3.0 million, will
be for: (a) design and supervision of the rehabilitation and equipment of hospitals and medical
and surgical centers; (b) technical assistance for the implementation of health sector reform and
management; (c) supervision of the anti-malaria spraying program; (d) health insurance studies
(e) training program for MOH and health workers; (f) local contractual staff of the project



Project Appraisal Document                                             Annex 6: Page 2 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                  Project Title: Health Project
implementation unit - CEP; and (g) annual financial audits. Consultant selection will be
generally addressed through competition among shortlisted firms using the Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS). For the annual financial audits ($75,000), which will involve
intemationally recognized accounting firms, the least cost selection will be used. Consultancy
services for the implementation of the health sector reform, management, and supervision of the
anti-malaria program and general project support, whichl would involve individuals for an
aggregate amount of $500,000, will be selected on criteria based on qualifications, experience,
and competence for their assignments.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA financed contracts above the threshold of $100,000 and $50,000 for works and goods
respectively will be subject to IDA's prior review. All other contracts will be subject to post
review.
Prior IDA review for consultants will be required for: (a) all contracts for individuals costing
more than $30,000 per contract; (b) all contracts for high level local staff of the project
implementation unit, including the executive director, the accountant and the procurement
specialist; (c) all contracts for the financial audits; and (d) all contracts with firns costing more
than $50,000 per contract. All other contracts will be subject to post review. For all contracts
with a consulting firm exceeding $50,000 per contract but up to $100,000 per contract, where the
selection is based on the evaluation of technical and financial proposals, the recommendation for
selection, together with the combined technical and financial evaluation reports, will be
transmitted to IDA for non-objection prior to the negotiation of the contract. For other contracts
with a consulting firm exceeding $100,000 per contract, the technical evaluation report will also
be sent to IDA for non-objection prior to the opening of the financial envelopes.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The credit closing date is December 31, 2002, although most of the credit will be disbursed by
June 30,2002, i.e. in four years. The 100 percent (net of taxes) financing by the IDA credit for
all disbursement categories is justified by the fact that beneficiaries will contribute about 10
percent of the cost of the project through the purchase of impregnated bednets, and will also pay
for services rendered by health facilities in order to cover their operating and maintenance costs.
Category 4 (operating expenses for the project implementation unit - CEP) includes expenditures
for (i) local contractual staff salaries, benefits and other incidental employment costs; (ii) travel
costs and allowances; (iii) insurance, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment; (iv)
banking charges; and (v) office rent, supplies and utilities, and communication charges.



Project Appraisal Document                                        Annex 6: Page 3 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros             Project Title: Health Project
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
A simplified format will continue to be used for SOEs in which expenditures are summarized by
category. The documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the project
implementation unit (CEP) for review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for annual
audits. SOEs will be used for payments of contracts of less than US$ 50,000 for goods and
works and consultant contracts of less than $50,000 and $30,000 for firms and individuals
respectively.
Special account
A special account in Comorian francs will be opened and maintain in a commercial bank; the
maximum amount or authorized allocation will be an amount equivalent to US$ 800,000.
Audit
An independent auditor acceptable to IDA will audit the use of all IDA funds, including the
special account and statements of expenditure.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 6: Page 4 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                       Project Title: Health Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F.
1. Works
Civil works                  1.5          0.1        0.1                     1.7
(1.5)        (0.1)                              (1.6)
2. Goods
Equipment, mosquito nets     1.9         0.2          1.2         0.9 (l)     4.2
insecticides, vehicles      (1.9)        (0.2)       (1.1) (2)               (3.2)
3. Services
TA, Training & Studies                               3.0         0.5 (3)      3.5
(3.0)                   (3.0)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                      0.6                      0.6
(0.6)                   (0.6)
Total                     3.4          0.3         4.9        1.4          10.0
(3.4)       (0.3)       (4.7)                   (8.4)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved
procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement
arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items
listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the
text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA
credit.
(I)This amount comprises $900,000 worth of mosquito nets to be purchased by
households/beneficiaries. Note that the initial batch of mosquito nets financed by IDA
is being procured under ICB.
(2)This amount comprises $900,000 worth of insecticides to be procured through WHO
procurement methods in four annual purchases.
(3)This total amount of $550,000 is financed by WHO ($400,000) and UNICEF
($150,000) for training activities.
'For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Annex 6: Page 5 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                      Project Title: Health Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)              Method                  Prior
Review/Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
1. Works
Rehabilitation of     >$ 100,000             ICB                     All / $ 1.4 million
Hospital and medical
and surgical centers
Rehabilitation of     >$30,000 and           NCB                    None
Moheli Facilities      <$100,000
Minor Rehabilitation    <$30,000             obtaining at least 3   None
bids
2. Goods
Equipment, vehicles    >$l00,000              ICB                   All 1$ 1.9 million
and mosquito nets
Small equipment &     >$30,000 and           NCB                    >$50,000 / $ 0,1
supplies              <$ 100,000                                    million
Office supplies       <$30,000                Shopping              None
Insecticides          >$100,000             Direct Purchase (WHO  None
Procurement)
3. Services
Consultants and       Firms                  QCBS, LCS              >$50,000 / $ 0.8
training                                                             million
Individuals            Short-list             >$30,000 / $ 0.4
million
CEP contractual staff   Short-list            All / $ 0.2 million
Financial audits       LCS                    All / 0.1 million
4. Miscellaneous
Operating costs       N/A
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $ 5.0 million
Note on selection method for consultants:
QCBS  =       Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
LCS   =       Least-Cost Selection.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Annex 6: Page 6 of 6
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                      Project Title: Health Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage
Civil works                                        1.5             100% of total costs
Equipment/vehicles/supplies                        3.0             100% of total costs
Training, technical assistance, studies            2.8             100% of total costs
Operating expenses                                 0.5             100% of total costs
Unallocated                                        0.6
Total                                              8.4



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Annex 7: Page I of I
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                              Project Title: Health Project
Annex 7
Health Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Bank Budget                                         48                   48
PHRD Grant                                         372                  200
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6 months              6 months
First Bank mission (identification)              12/05/96             12/05/96
Appraisal mission departure                      11/01/97             11/08/97
Negotiations                                     12/01/97             12/29/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/01/98
Prepared by: Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOH)
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Core team members:
Eileen Murray, AFTH2                      Task Team Leader
Bertrand Ah-Sue, AFTS2                    Senior Procurement Specialist
Malonga Miatudila, AFTH2                  Public Health Specialist
Raj Soopramanien, LEGAF                   Country Lawyer
Hilda Emeruwa-Creppy, AFTH2               Task Team Assistant
Laura McDonald, AFTH2                     Task Team Assistant
Extended team members:
Pisei Eap, AFTM3                          Economist
Manorama Gotur, AFC08                     Operations Analyst
Philomene Lai-Cheong, AFTC2               Budget Officer
Myrina McCullough, AFTH2                  Program Assistant
David Freese, LOAAF                       Disbursement Officer
Cecilia Kennedy, LOAAF                    Disbursement Analyst
Lead Adviser:
Maryse Pierre-Louis, MNSHD                Senior Public Health Specialist
Peer Reviewer:
Qaiser Khan, MNCYE                        Principal Economist
Consultants:
Pierre Cornillot                          Public Health Specialist
Paul Geli                                 Implementation Specialist
Jose Najera                               Malaria Specialist






Project Apprsisal Document                                                      Annex 8: Page I of 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                           Project Title: Health Project
Annex 8
Health Project
Letter of Sector Policy
REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE ET DE LA POPULATION
Moroni, le 10 ddcembre 1997
A l'attention de
Monsieur Michael N. SARRIS
Directeur des Operations pour les Pays
de l'Ocdan Indien - R6gion Afrique
Banque Mondiale - Washington D.C.
Objet: Politique de d6veloppement Sanitaire aux Comores
Monsieur le Directeur,
1.    Nous avons I'honneur de porter a votre connaissance par la presente, les politiques et les
strategies que le Gouvernement de la Republique Fed6rale Islamique des Comores entend poursuivre
afin d'accrottre 1'efficacit6 des actions men6es dans les domaines de la sant6 et de la population.
2.    Depuis son accession I la souverainete internationale en 1975, le pays s'est fix6 comnme
objectif d'assurer un niveau acceptable de soins de sante pour tous ses habitants. Aussi, notre
politique sanitaire de ces dix dernieres annees a-t-elle et6 axee sur les soins de sante conform6ment a
l'esprit de la declaration d'Alma-Ata, nos orientations privil6giant prioritairement:
* Ia restructuration et le renforcement des structures de pilotage de la politique sectorielle;
* Ia r6habilitation et 1'6quipement des infrastructures sanitaires;
* I'appui aux programmes prioritaires de sante publique (Programme Elargi de Vaccination, Sante
Maternelle et Infantile), le renforcement de la lutte contre les grandes enddmies, les Maladies
Sexuellement Transmissibles et d'autres affections;



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Annex 8: Page 2 of ll
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                            Project Title: Health Project
* I'arnelioration des conditions d'assainissement et d'hygibne du milieu;
* 1'amnlioration de la gestion des ressources humaines, matdrielles et financieres par la mise en
place de cadres adaptes, la formation permanente du personnel et la participation croissante de la
population aux frais de santd.
3.     Des succbs significatifs ont 6te obtenus grAce I l'appui de la Communaute Internationale
(PNUD, OMS, UNICEF, FNUAP, CEE, COOPERATION.FRANCAISE, APEFE, CARE, LIGUE
ISLAMIQUE, BANQUE MONDIALE, BANQUE AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT, etc.).
Cependant, la sante de la population reste precaire notamment celle des femmes en Age de procreer
et des enfants. En effet, malgre des efforts substantiels engages pour accroitre les infrastructures et
les equipements hospitaliers, les taux de mortalitd (84% pour la mortalite infantile et 10,4% pour la
mortalit6 generale) se trouvent encore a des niveaux inaccepeables en raison des faibles moyens dont
disposent les services sanitaires, d'un cadre institutionnel faiblement exploite, et surtout de
l'insuffisance de personnel qualifie.
Pour faire face A ces nombreux problemes, et afin d'atteindre l'objectif de la santd pour tous
mentionn6 plus haut, nous nous sommes dotes d'un certain rombre d'instruments fondarnentaux qui
fonde notre strategie de developpement sanitaire:
 d'abord un Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire (PNDS) adopte en mai 1991, qui arrate les
grandes orientations prioritaires de la politique sanitaire du pays pour les prochaines annees.
ensuite une nouvelle Loi portant cadre gdn6ral du systeme de sante et definissant d'une part les
missions de la sante publique et d'autre part son systame organique;
* enfin, un Code de la Santd Publique et de I'Action Sociale (comprenant en annexe le Code de
Deontologie Medicale) qui enonce les regles juridiques applicables aux activites et aux structures
de sante en charge de la protection et la promotion sanitaire de l'individu, de la famille et de la
collectivitd.
Le Plan National de Developpemerit Sanitaire
4.    Revise en 1993 en collaboration avec l'OMS, le PNLD et l'UNICEF, le Plan National de
Ddveloppement Sanitaire est l'instrument de gestion du secteur sanitaire de la Rdpublique Federale
Islamique des Comores. 11 est fonde sur les principes de la d6claration d'ALMA-ATA (1978), du
Scenario de developpement sanitaire en trois phases de Lusaka-Zambie (1985) et le l'Initiative de



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Annex 8: Page 3 of 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                Project Title: Health Project
Bamnako (1987). II tient egalement compte des donnees socio-economiques du pays, des exigences du
Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS) et de la politique de d6centralisation administrative en
cours. II arrete les grandes orientations et les axes prioritaires de la politique sanitaire des Comores
jusqu'en 2010.
Ainsi, les activites et les programmes prioritaires poursuivront les memes objectifs que par le passe,
a savoir:
renforcer et faciliter l'accessibilite de la population aux soins de sante primaires par la
decentralisation des formations sanitaires et la responsabilisation de celles-ci en matiere de prise de
decision;
* offrir des soins de qualite par l'amelioration de plateau technique;
* dynamiser la politique de gestion des ressources humaines par l'elaboration de plans des effectifs,
de formation et des carrieres;
* ameliorer l'accessibilite aux medicaments par le renforcement de la politique des mddicaments
essentiels;
 instaurer un systeme de recouvrement des coats par la mise en place de mdcanismes
d'autofinancement, de gestion et de controle de l'utilisation des ressources, qui intkgre en aval
les communautes dans la prise en charge et le controle des formations sanitaires de base;
* enfin mettre en place des mecanismes de surveillance et d'evaluation des activites des differents
programmes.
5.     Pour lutter contre la forte croissance demographique des Comores (environ 2,7%  par an) et
influer sur la structure de la population (le rapport d'Age est trEs deplacd au b6ndfice des classes
d'Age les plus jeunes), nous avons renforce la politique familiale avec l'appui de nos partenaires
habituels; notamment le FNUAP, I'ASCOBEF, etc.
Des resultats encourageants ont ete obtenus dans le contr6le et 1'espacement des naissances. Par
exemple, l'indice synth6tique de feconditd est passe de 6,8 enfants par femme en 1991 a 5,1 en
1996. Cependant, les besoins dans le domaine de la planification familiale sont loin d'etre satisfaits.
Aujourd'hui encore, environ 56% des naissances ne sont pas correctement planifiees, la difference
entre le taux de fecondite et le besoin en nombre d'enfants reste positif et la densite de la population
continue d'augmenter (241 habitants au km2 en 1991 contre environ 278 en 1997).
Notre strategie en la matiare est organisde autour de deux axes:



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Annex 8: Page 4 of 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                              Project Title: Health Project
- d'abord, I'IEC ciblee sur des groupes sensibles (femmes de 15 a 49 ans et leurs maris, jeunes,
leaders d'opinions) sera renforcee et elargie;
* ensuite I'acces aux mdthodes modernes de contr6le des naissances et aux fournitures
correspondantes sera gendralise.
Parall lement, des actions de formation du personnel ont etd mises en chantier. Elles ont dte
appuyees par I'6quipement des formations sanitaires en materiels de planification familiale, par
l'approvisionnement en contraceptifs et enfin par l'organisation d'activites de maternite sans risque.
Ainsi le Gouvernement Comorien s'engage avec l'aide des Bailleurs de Fonds a continuer d'appuyer
ce programme de lutte contre la forte croissance d6mographique.
Reorganisation du svstbme de sante
6.     Au terme d'une periode de plus de quinze annees, les responsables politiques du pays on da
prendre acte d'une dvolution irreversible de la demande de soins, de prevention des malades et de
protection de la sante.
L'augmentation continue des d4penses de sante, la volontd et la capacite de participation de la
population A la resolution des problemes de sante imposaient une profonde reorganisation du
systeme comorien. Pour des raisons qui tiennent a la fois des choix de societe effectues en
Republique Federale Islamique des Comores et des capacites economiques et sociales du pays, il
;tait devenu evident qu'au cours des prochaines annees, la politique nationale de la santd devait
s'appuyer sur le developpement concertd des secteurs public, prive et communautaire, le premier
ayant vocation a constituer l'armature du systeme puisque l'organisation et le fonctionnement du
systeme de sante relbvent de la competence de I'Etat.
7.     Afin de faciliter la mise en oeuvre de ce developpement, le gouvernement a initie un
ensemble de reformes institutionnelles qui concernent tous les niveaux de notre systeme sanitaire.
Son objectif est d'offrir a l'ensemble de la population I'acces A des soins de qualit6 et a une
protection toujours efficace, associant les possibilit6s combinees d'une accessibilitd independamment
des ressources et du statut social d'une part, et d'un libre choix eventuel A l'initiative de
l'utilisateur, d'autre part.
La Loi n 94-0161AF portant cadre general du systeme de sante et definissant les missions du
service public hospitalier a ainsi ete votee le 17 juin 1994 par 11'Assemblee Federale. Elle definit les



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Annex 8: Page 5 of 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                Project Title: Health Project
conditions dans lesquelles les secteurs public, prive et communautaire s'organisent et se developpent
en fonction des besoins et des moyens du pays.
8.     Parallelement, pour assurer le developpement coherent du secteur prive et communautaire,
I'Etat a mis en place les organismes professionnels - notamment l'Ordre National des Medecins,
Pharmaciens et Chirurgiens dentistes - charges d'organiser et de contr6ler la pratique des
professions medicales (medecins, sages-femmes, inflrmieres, pharmaciens, paramddicaux) et a
etablis les regles regissant les autorisations des Installations, des constructions et de l'acquisition des
equipements.
9.     Pour ce qui concerne le secteur public, le Gouvernement a mis un accent particulier sur
3'amelioration de la qualite des services fournis I la population. C'est ainsi qu'un certain nombre
d'actions y concourant ont ete initiees au travers le Projet Population et Ressources Humaines en
cours d'execution. II s'agit principalement:
* de la rehabilitation de plusieurs structures sanitaires en difficulte et de la fourniture
d'&quipements et de materiels essentiels pour garantir la cohdrence et la continuite des services
prioritaires;
* de l'ajustement des effectifs des personnels de la sante relevant de la fonction publique aux
capacites des cadres organiques du Ministere de la Sante et de leur formation a la nouvelle
organisation et aux nouvelles activites;
* de la mise en place de procedures de surveillance, de suivi et d'dvaluation des activites des
differents programmes retenus comme prioritaires.
Reforme institutionnelle et statuaire du secteur public
10.    Au terme de plusieurs annees de discussions sur la rdforme organisationnelle du secteur
sanitaire, la R6publique Federale Islamique des Comores s'est dotde d'un systeme de sante mixte qui
associe le secteur prive a l'Etat, ce dernier conservant cependant des obligations et des devoirs
irrevocables, notamment le pouvoir reglementaire et un droit de regard sur tous les organismes de
soin du secteur prive.
Pour l'essentiel, la loi reorganise et decentralise la gestion des services de sante et met un accent
particulier sur la rationalisation du systeme de sante et sur l'adaptation du secteur public aux
rdalites ddmographiques et socio-economiques rdgionales. Elle organise les structures et les services



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Annex 8: Page 6 of 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                Project Title: Health Project
de soins et de prevention relevant du Ministere de la Sante Publique en un dispositif hierarchise qui
correspond au schdma de la subdivision administrative des Comores (Fdddral, Regional et
Prefectoral):
 au niveau central, le Ministere de la Sante Publique et ses directions gdnerales sont charges de la
definition, de la coordination et de la planification nationale, de la mise en oeuvre des
programmes nationaux et des politiques nationales de sante, de la surveillance epiddmiologique,
de la formation des professionnels, de la coordination des aides et des projets, du financement
des infrastructures et des equipements lourds, de la politique nationale du m6dicament, de
l'exercice de la tutelle sur le fonctionnement, le financement et la qualite des soins, de la
preventions et de l'information sanitaire;
* au niveau regional, le Centre Hospitalier Regional represente le niveau de technicit6 medicale,
soignante et medico-technique le plus eleve de sa rdgion. Ses missions principales sont l'accueil
des situations de detresse et d'urgence, la realisation d'investigations diagnostiques complexes, la
mise en oeuvre de traitements medicaux et chirurgicaux lourds, la prise en charge des situations
obstetricales a risque. II coordonne son action avec celles des Centres Sanitaires de District qui
lui sont referes par l'intermrdiaire des structures relevant de la Direction Regionale de la Sante.
La Direction Regionale de la Sante est pour ce qui la concerne, I'autoritd de tutelle de l'ensemble
des structures de soins de la region. Elle est organisee autour t'une equipe de sante, dirigee par un
medecin, directeur regional. Cette equipe a pour taches specifiques:
* de veiller a ]'application de la reglementation en matiere de la protection sanitaire de la
population, de la pratique de la mddecine, de la vente des mEdicaments et la lutte contre les
epidemies,
* d'organiser, de lutter contre les epidemies et d'assurer la police sanitaire dans I';le,
* d'organiser, d'impulser et de cordonner les activitds concourant au maintien et a l'arnelioration
de la sante et du bien-etre social de la population de I'lle;
* de superviser et de contr6ler le fonctionnement des services peripheriques de la sante,
* de programmer, d'organiser, d'impulser et de coordorner les activites de la formation et de
l'education socio-sanitaire,
* d'organiser, de coordonner les activites de l'assistance sociale et de participer a la gestion des
aides et dons qui leur sont destinEs,
* d'impulser et de coordonner les activites de la promotion de la femme,
* de collecter et de tenir a jour les statistiques sanitaires au niveau de I'lle.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Annex 8: Page 7 of 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                Project Title: Health Project
Au niveau nArinh&rique, le centre Sanitaire de District (Centre de Sante, Centre Medico-Chirurgical-
Urbain selon les cas) est le principal pOle des activites sanitaires autour duquel gravitent les postes
de sante de secteur qui lui sont referes, y compris la distribution des medicaments essentiels. 11
assure les soins essentiels de base et dans certaines conditions peut proceder a des hospitalisations
k des interventions chirurgicales limitees et a des accouchements.
11.    Enfin, il donne une autonomie de gestion financiere et administrative aux formations
sanitaires et les dote d'un statut et d'un ensemble d'instruments juridiques conformes I leurs
missions et a l'exercice de cette autonomie. C'est ainsi que les Centres Hospitaliers Regionaux ont
ete transformes en etablissements publics autonomes.
Conformrment aux dispositions de la loi, ils sont dotes d'un Conseil d'Administration qui assure le
contr6le direct du fonctionnement et de l'usage des ressources allouees et des recettes apportees par
la tarification officielle des actes effectuees. Le Ministere de la sante leur affecte annuellement les
dotations necessaires a la remuneration des personnels relevant de la fonction publique, ainsi qu'une
eventuelle subvention destinee a couvrir une partie des frais de fonctionnement. Pareillement, des
dotation speciales leur permettent d'acquerir des equipements nouveaux ou de renouveler les
6quipements anciens. Cependant, en ce qui concerner la remuneration du personnel apres 1995, le
Gouvernement ayant accumule quelques 11 mois d'arrieres de salaire, a decide de geler ces arrieres
tout en continuant d'honorer regulierement les salaires de l'annee 1997. Et a ce jour le pari a ete
tenu puisqu'en 1997 tous les mois ont ete paye en salaire. Pour l'avenir le Gouvernement s'engage:
a) k rechercher aupres de ses partenaires exterieurs un Don Exceptionnel pour regler ces 11 mois
d'arrieres geles;
b) a continuer de regler chaque mois dl en salaire des fonctionnaires;
c) et pour le prochain exercice budgetaire 1998-1999 commencer a mettre a la disposition de chaque
ministere son propre budget comprenant a la fois les salaires des fonctionnaires du secteur, mais
egalement les frais d'un fonctionnement minimum de ce secteur.
Par contre, les Centres Sanitaires de district ont ete dotes du statut d'Etablissement prive sans but
lucratif avec des missions de service public. Administrds par des associations sans but lucratif crees
a cet effet et agrees par le Ministere charge de la sante, ils disposent de moyens necessaires k leur
fonctionnement par le biais de dotations en personnel et en credits provenant du budget de l'dtat et
affectes par convention, et par le droit a percevoir le montant des actes tarifes.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Annex 8: Page 8 of I1
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                              Project Title: Health Project
Les postes de sante qui leur sont referes sont geres par convention par des associations villageoises
de soutien. L'Etat participe a leur fonctionnement a travers la prise en charge des travaux de
construction ou de rehabilitation et par les moyens qu'il leur affecte au budget du Centre de Sante de
reference. Les associations de leur cote sont autorisees a percevoir le montant d'actes tarifes pour
leur frais de fonctionnement. A ce jour les centres sanitaires de district disposent de leur Association
gestionnaire participant a leur fonctionnement quotidien. Par contre seul les formations sanitaires de
NGAZIDJA disposent d'un Conseil d'Administration rdpondant aux normes de la Loi, et ce depuis
cette annee 1997.
Les problemes politiques du pays ayant empeches la mise en place de ces Conseils d'Administration
I NDZOUANI et a MWALI; cependant le Gouvernement s'engage a y poursuivre leur mise en
place des que la situation le permettra.
Pour finir, l'ensemble de ces structures de sante integre les representants des communautes dans leur
instances de deliberation et de decision et s'appuie dans la distribution des soins, sur la
responsabilisation des cadres de la sante, et sur un dispositif de financement base sur le principe du
recouvrement des coOts, combinant des ressources locales, nationales et exterieures I des
financements assures sur le budget de l'Etat.
Ainsi le Gouvernement s'engage:
a) de poursuivre les reformes organisationnelles du systeme de sante restent en application en
particulier de continuer ce dispositif de participation communautaire a la gestion et au
fonctionnement des prestations de sant6;
b) de continuer a doter chaque formation sanitaire de sa pharmacie autonome;
c) de veiller k ce que les nominations des cadres superieurs du Ministere et des formations sanitaires
repondent a la fois aux dispositions legislatives en vigueur, et au profil des cadres organiques (en
particulier les directeurs generaux des CHR, les directeurs gdneraux de Ministre, et le Secretaire
Gdneral du Ministere;
d) et enfin veillent a la stabilite de ces memes cadres dans leur poste d'affectation.
12.  Tels sont les 6I6ments essentiels qui caracterisent aujourd'hui le nouveau systeme de sant6
comorien dont la mise en place et en voie d'achavement, comme nous venons de le souligner plus
haut. Avec l'appui des differents bailleurs de fonds, et dans le cadre de I'actuel accord de credit
signe avec la Banque Mondiale, nous nous engageons mener 'a son terme cette entreprise nationale
et satisfaire ainsi aux objectifs que nous nous etions assignes dans la perspective de la fin de I'annie
1998.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Annex 8: Page 9 of l1
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                              Project Title: Health Project
En particulier, le Gouvernement s'engage a ce que la periode 1997 - 98 permette d'achever la mise
en application des textes reglementaires encadrant cette reforme et de finaliser le fonctionnement des
structures de soins selon les nouveaux modes d'organisation et de gestion.
Mais d6j', l'importance, la variete et la qualite des resultats que nous avons obtenus et ceux qui sont
previsibles I l'issue du premier projet Population et Ressources Humaines, nous imposent A
rechercher pour l'avenir les conditions d'un effet durable et d'une consolidation de cette entreprise.
Nos priorit6s futures privil6gient:
* au niveau central, le renforcement des capacites de gestion et de management de Ia tutelle,
* au niveau des structures perinheriques, le renforcement et l'harmonisation des capacites de soin
et de prevention,
* au niveau des collectivites, la consolidation de la participation des communautes au
fonctionnement du systeme de sante et le renforcement de leur capacite contributive a son
financement.
13. Pour l'essentiel, ces priorites sont les suivantes:
Au titre du renforcement des capacites de gestion et de management de la tutelle
La mise en place de Direction Generales du Ministere dotees des moyens et des equipement
ndecessaires au developpement de leurs nouvelles activites issues de la reforme, notammnent la
collecte et le traitement de l'information epidemiologique et statistique et la surveillance a travers le
pays, des risques d'emergence d'affections a caractere epidemique jusqu'a la fin 1998.
La reorganisation et le renforcement du Centre National de Formation et de Recherche en Sante
Publique, en vue de constituer un centre de reference pour la formation initiale et continue des
personnels de sante comoriens jusqu'a la fin 1999,
La mise en place d'une Centre National de Production et de Diffusion IEC - Sante
Au titre du renforcement des capacites de soins et de prevention
I1 participation a la rehabilitation et a l'equipement m6dical et administratif des etablissements
peripheriques pour l'an 2000.
Ia poursuite des programmes de requalification des personnels, en particulier des cadres
administratifs des services centraux et regionaux pour I'an 2000.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Annex 8: Page IO of II
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                              Project Title: Health Project
Le renforcement d'un programme national de lutte contre le paludisme, avec I'appui
coordonne de differents bailleurs de fonds pour I'an 2000.
L'organisation des dispositifs de production, de stockage et de distribution des produits
sanguins en conformite avec les regles strictes de sdcuritd transfusionnelle et d'hemovigilance.
Au titre du renforcement des capacites de participation de la population et d'opdrations
integrees Sante-Population-Environnement
La participation aux actions de protection et de lutte contre les vecteurs du paludisme pour
I'an 2000.
La participation a la lutte contre la diffusion des maladies sexuellement transmissible et les
risques de transmission du virus du Sidal
Le renforcement des implications de la population dans les actions de proximite en
information-Education-Communication pour l'an 2000.
La participation aux etudes de mise en place d'un systeme de mutualisation et d'assurance k
l'initiative des collectivites peripherique pour l'an 2000.
14.    Enfin, le Gouvernement s'engage a mener a bien des activites plus integrees dans differents
programmes prioritaires de notre Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire 1993 - 2010.
Dans cet esprit, nous considerons qu'une attention particuliere sera consacree a la maitrise de la
fecondite et aux exigences d'une maternite heureuse et sans risque pour l'enfant, notre objectif etant
de passer d'un taux de prevalence contraceptive de 8% en 1996 a 20% en 2001, de diminuer le taux
d'abandon de planification familiale de 70% pour 1996 a 50% en 2000, de diminuer le taux de
mortalite maternelle de 500 pour 100 000 naissances vivantes en 1996 h 250 en 2001, enfin de
parvenir a un taux de 20% d'utilisatrices de moyens modernes cle regulation en l'an 2000.
15.   Le gouvernement s'engage a realiser ces objectifs en maintenant son appui aux structures
autonomes chargees de la distribution des soins et de la prevention dans le secteur public:
a) par la mise a disposition d'un personnel qualifie, m6dical, soignant et administratif,
r6mun&r6 sur le budget de l'Etat, et par la formation initiale et continue de ces
personnels,
b) par l'affectation de subventions specifiques, notammebnt pour l'acquisition de gros
equipements autorises et pour les travaux d'infrastructure et par I'attribution de moyens



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Annex 8: Page 11 of 11
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                               Project Title: Health Project
spdcifiques destinds a la realisation d'activitds particulieres relevant des programmes
prioritaires,
c) par des mesures d'incitations sociales et l'amelioration des conditions de travail,
d) par l'elaboration d'un plan directeur de la politique pharmaceutique nationale - afin
d'amdliorer l'accessibilite au moindre coCt aux mddicaments essentiels dans 1'ensemble
des formations sanitaires participant au service public hospitalier -
e) et enfin, par l'instauration de mecanismes rigoureux de controle de l'utilisation des
ressources financieres et ,matdrielles affectdes aux projets en cours d'exdcution.
Le Gouvernement s'engage a veiller au strict respect et I la mise en application des dispositions
Idgislatives soutenant la reforme du systeme de sante, notamment dans les directions centrales et
regionales, et diligentera des actions pour parachever la reorganisation des services centraux et
rdgionaux afin qu'ils soient en mesure d'assurer leurs nouvelles missions pour la fin 1998, si la
situation politique se stabilise. Enfin, il prendra toutes les dispositions rdglementaires relevant de
son autoritd, qui pourraient etre necessaires pour ce faire.
Pour conclure, cette reorganisation de notre systeme de santd, ainsi soutenue et amplifiee, ne doit en
aucun cas etre assimilee a un desengagement progressif de l'Etat, mais doit &tre replacde des a
present dans la perspective de sa necessaire adaptation a la limitation des moyens disponibles.
Nous sommes persuades que 1'effort historique entrepris par la collectivite comorienne pour
am6liorer la qualite et la pertinence de son systeme de sante portera pleinement ses promesses et que
seront ainsi confirmes les premiers resultats tres encourageants que nous avons obtenus tant sous
l'angle economique qu'au point de vue de la sante de la population.
Nous vous prions, Monsieur le Directeur, de bien vouloir agreer l'expression de notre tres haute
consideration.
Pour le Gouvernement
LE MINISTRE                         LE MINISTRE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
DES FINANCES ET DU BUDGET                          ET DE LA POPULATION
_22
o? g c -.-(
.. , . ..'






Project Appraisal Document                                           Annex 9: Page 1 of 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                Project Title: Health Project
Annex 9
Health Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
(1) The Ministry of Health and Population has prepared a Proiect Implementation Manual in
French (Manuel d'Execution du Projet) dated June 1997, which includes the following sections
and annexes:
I. General presentation of the health sector and issues related to health financing.
II. The Project
For each of the three components (Rehabilitation and equipment of health facilities, control of
malaria and institutional strengthening):
- context and objectives;
- detailed description;
- costs;
- financial and economic analysis;
- risks and risk minimization measures;
- implementation modalities and timetable; and
- monitoring and evaluation.
III. Description and tasks of project implementation unit (Cellule d'ExJcution du Projet -
CEP) - terms of reference of higher level staff of the CEP (executive director, procurement
specialist and accountant).
(2) Detailed cost tables.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
(1) Aide-memoire of the Bank supervision mission for the midterm review (Nov/Dec 1996) of
the ongoing PHR project.
(2) Aide-memoire of the Bank preparation mission for the Health Project (Mar 1997)
(3) Aide-memoire of the Bank preappraisal mission for the Health Project (June 1997)
C. Other
(1) Note d'Information sur la Reforme du Systeme de Sante aux Comores (Mai 1996) - Direction
Generale de la Tutelle, des Structures et des Moyens & Cellule d'Execution du projet Population



Project Appraisal Document                                           Annex 9: Page 2 of 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                 Project Title: Health Project
et Ressources Humaines "Composante Sante"
Annexe I:    Politique de developpement sanitaire aux Comores - lettre du Ministere de la
Sante Publique a la Banque mondiale, en date du 9 novembre 1995
Annexe II:   Loi no. 94-016 du 17 juin 1994 portant cadre generaL du systeme de sante et
definissant les missions du service publique de la sante
Annexe III:  Decret No. 95-053/PR portant statut et organisation administrative et financiere
des dtablissements publics d'hospitalisation en application de la loi no. 94-016/AF du 17 juin
1994
Annexe IV:  Decret No. 95-054/PR portant statut, organisation et fonctionnement des centres
sanitaires de district et des postes de sante en application de la loi no. 94-016/AF du 17 juin 1994
Annexe V:   Decret No. 93-156/PR portant organisation et missions des directions regionales
de la sante et des affaires sociales
Annexe VI:  Arret6 No. 93-038/MSP fixant la carte sanitaire des Comores
Annexe VII: Arret& interministeriel No  95-203/MFB instituant les formations sanitaires en
*tablissements prives sans buts lucratifs avec mission de service public
Annexe VIII: Arrete No. 94-300/MSP portant la mise en piLace des pharmacies a but non-lucratif
dans les structures de sante
Annexe IX:  Arrete conjoint No. 95-378/MSP/MFB instituant les formations sanitaires en
etablissements prives sans buts lucratifs avec mission de service public.
Annexe X:   Schema, la nouvelle organisation du systemne de sante en Republique Federale
Islamique des Comores
Annexe XI:  Schema, nouvel organigramme du Ministere de la Sante Publique
Annexe XII: Schema, organisation administrative et fonctionnelle des h6pitaux
Annexe XIII: Schema, organisation budgetaire et financiere des h6pitaux
Annexe XIV: Schema, organisation administrative et fonctionnelle des centres sanitaires de
district
Annexe XV: Schdma, organisation budgetaire et financiere des centres sanitaires de district
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                                                   Annex 10: Page  I of I
Country: Islamnic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                                                                                                                                       Project Title: Health Project
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Comoros
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements a/
Loan or      Fiscal
Project ID     Credit No.     Year                   BotTower                             Purpose
IBRD         IDA          Cancellations     Undisbursed                   Orig Fnn Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 9
Active Loans
KM-PE-603        IDAN0310        1997    GOVT OF COMOROS                         EDUCATION III                            0.00         7.00               0.00            6.98          0.00                           0.00
KM-PE-604        IDA29310        1997    GOVERNMENT                              AG SERVICES PILOT                        0.00         1.60               0.00            1.51           1.68                          0.00
KM-PE-596        IDA25530        1994    GOVT.                                   POP & HUMAN RESOURCE                     0.00        13.00               0.00            3.29          3.15                           0.00
KM-PE-606        IDA26320        1994    GOVT OF COMOROS                         SMALL ENTERPRISE DEV                     0.00         5.10               0.00            3.01          2.95                           0.00
KM-PE-593        IDA22070        1991    GOVERNMENT                              ROAD MAINTENANCE                         0.00         6.60               0.00             .30            .14                          0.00
Total                                                                                                                     0.00        33.30               0.00           15.09          7.92                           0.00
Active Loans        Closed Loans              Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                         18.46                 49.80                 68.26
of which has been repaid:                            0.00                   2.18                  2.18
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                        33.30                  44.13                  77.43
Amount sold           :                                  0.00                  0.00                   0.00
Of which repaid      :                                 0.00                  0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed      :                                15.09                  0.00                  15.09
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be tised (HS  highly Satisfactory, S  satisfactory, U
unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.






Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                            Annex 11: Page I of 2
Country: Islaamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                                                               Project Title: Health Project
Annexe 11
Comoros at a glance                                                               28/08/97
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan     Low- 
Comoros      Africa  Income    I Developmentdiamond
Populafion mid-1996 (mnillions)                         0.5       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USSJ                               460       490       50                 LifeXepectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                 0.2       294    1,601    !                   T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Populafion (96)                                         2.6        2.7      1.7      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (96)                                        2.8        2.6      1.7      per                             p mary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populafion)
Urban populafion (X oftotal population)                  28        31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         56        52        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lve births)                  87        92        69    !          Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (96 of children under .)
Access to safe water (96 of population)                  48        47        53
Illiteracy (X ofpopulation age 15+)                      43        43        34    1
Gross primary enrollment (9% of school-age population)   75        72       105          -Cororos
Male                                                   81        78       112                Low-income group
Female                                                 69        65        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     198l6      1995     1996      E        = = t ==
Economic ratios^
GDP (milDons USS)                                     114.5      233.2    229.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..    32.8        17.1     17.2    !        Openness of economy
Exports of goods and servicet GOP                ..    17.0       19.3     18.4    1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..    -0.3       -7.9     -5.9    1
Gross nafional savingsrGDP                       ..
Cunrent account balance/GDP                     ..   -12.7       -12.9     -9.8
Interest paymentslGDP                            ..     1.3        0.2      0.7      Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..   117.2       87.2
Total debt service/exports                      ..      8.9        1.7
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..     0.0       47.2
Present value of debt/exports                   ..      0.0      181.5       ..
Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995       1996  199705 
(average annual growth)                                                                        Comoros
GDP                                   4.5      0.9     -2.3        1.0       ..
GNP per capita                        1.7     -1.5     -4.7       -1.2       ..                Low-mcome group
Exports of goods and services        15.6      5.3     11.2        1.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996      Growthratesofoutputandinvestment(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                     ..    36.1        38.7     40.0      20-
Industry                                        ..    14.1        12.8     13.6         o
Manufacturing                                 ..       3.7       5.3       4.8      0.2
Services                                         ,,    49.8       48.4     46.4    -20
Private consumption                             ..    72.7        86.7     88.9    .40
General govemment consumption                    ..    27.5       21.2     19.1    jGDI   _O_Gp
Imports of goods and services                    ..    50.1       44.4     41.5                                GP
1975-85  1986-96      1995      1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and impdrts (%)
Agriculture                                    4.3       1.7       1.5      2.2      so.
Industry                                       4.1      2.9        1.0      2.0      40I    A
Manufacturing                                4.4       3.9       1.0       2.0
Services                                       4.8     -0.2       -8.3     -0.4      20
Private consumption                            3.7      2.7        0.3     -1.2                          93       35
General govemment consumption                  3.4     -3.4       -4.2     -6.4        _ .2_ 1
Gross domestc investment                       3.9     -4.4       -3.4      8.8      40
Imports of goods and services                  4.3      1.2        8.6     -4.0                    Exports     Imports
Gross national product                         5.7      1.1       -2.3      1.2                                       .        .
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                   Annex I1: Page 2 of 2
Country: Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros                                                                       Project Title: Health Project
Comoros
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996           -
Domestic prices                                                                       Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                            25 -
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..        0.8       2.1     20 -
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..     7.1        7.0       0.0     10-
Government finance                                                                                  _
(% of GDP)                                                                            -s-    91            93   94   95   95
Current revenue                                  ..    37.4        20.8      20.5    -10 -
Current budget balance                                  19.5       -3.9      -0.2                    GDPdf. -;-CI
Overall surplus/deficit                                -16.5      -10.6    -*6.0
TRADE
1975     1985       199p 1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                               -       16         11        6      ao -
Vanilla                                         ..       10         6         3
Girofle                                        ..        3          0         1     s0o
Manufactures                                              3 0       0         0
Total imports (cif)                                       37         68       62      40           :
Food                                           ..        4         18        12
Fuel and energy                                 ..       3          8         4     20
Capital goods                                                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Export price index (1987=100)                             70         79       75           90   91   92   93   94   95   9a
Import price index (1987=100)                             67         80       78 at                              imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                104         98       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996    -_-
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                    ..       20         45       42
Imports of goods and services                    ..       64        104       95
Resource balance                                 ..      -44        -58      -53
Netincome                                         ..      -1          1        0           90   91   92   93  94   95  98
Net current transfers                            ..       31         27       30
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers              ..      -15        -30       -23
Financing items (net)                             -       21         26       32
Changes in net reserves                           ..      -6          4        -9    -15 -
Memo:_
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)               ..      12         37       39
Conversion rate (locakUJS$)                   214.3    449.3      374.4    383.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              5      134        203
IBRD                                           0         0          0        0                      G
IDA                                            0        20         64       68                      13
B
Total debt service                                1        2          1        ..            E64
IBRD                                           0         0          0        0            35
IDA                                            0         0          1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Otficial grants                                14        0          0
Official creditors                              1       22          9        1                                    C
Private creditors                              0         0          0        */   3
Foreign direct investment                      0         0          2        *D
Portfolio equity                               0         0          0        *8
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0         0          0        0      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0         6         10        6       B - DA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          0        0       C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fows                                       0         6          9        6    _
Interest payments                              0         0          0        0
Net transfers                                  0         5          9        6
Development Economics                                                                                                    8128/97



MAP






The botundaries, colors, d'enominations                 T AN ZA N IA                                                           48Gan
and any othernfomtion shown on         >                                    _Grand
this map do not imply, on the port of  >                                                    Comore
,iJsamsouu~             \The World Bank Group, any judgment                     12                                                                  Anjouon
on the legal status ofoany terriory orMhei   '
rny endlorsenset or acceptance of                                                               Mcel
such boundaries.                                                                          COMOROS              <>Mayole      
1ay  \6         M ,,M                                                                                        Z MBIQEBeni                                        Fr)
Hnhop) tK E :6566 e  uM'6eni                                           J      4,   ~~~~~~KILOMErERS         )         hn nf,) li!tJ|
0 ! 1I'f >e  qX                                                                             j o      oI2100     00                                    MA DAGASCAR                 16
NGAZ IDJA                                                                            MILES
- !'.21 S ? S -- 44'
kant  y~(4~~  N,.           (GRANDE                                                               36                      00                    4                     8                     2
Mitsou~~e                 COMORES
'I4aumbouni                                                                    ROADS               0        TOWNS
PATHS                        CONTOURS (elevotions in feet)
-4-       AIRPORTS             *       SPOT ELEVATIONS (in feet)
PORTS                        REEFS
120                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
N _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
*rW" NZWAN I
4 (  E  ''At,   uareu>                ( ' ANJOLIAN)
Muitsasd
MWALI                                                   Sao
(MOHELI)                                                                                N,
M4,j,3_~mbo                                                                                Pomn )min
MirinDomon
Quoltafib  ~~~~~~~~~~~'  ~~~~>                                      M oy~~~~~~~      Remani
5       0                                            25643
i t I I I | ~MIL1ESI125f, ..........., 
5    0                           25
i(ILOMETERS
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4A



