                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                           Report No: 30754-CM

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-30430)

                                     ON A

                               LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 8.4 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                  ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS

                                     FOR A

                                HEALTH PROJECT




                                 December 7, 2004




Human Development Group 3
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2004)

                              Currency Unit = Comorian Francs (KMF)
                                 SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.46
                                  US$ 1.00 = KMF 404.42

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1  June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASCOBEF  Association Comorienne pour le Bien-Etre Familial
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEP      Cellule d'Exécution du Projet
CHR      Centre Hospitalier Régional
CNFRSP   Centre National de Formation de Recherche en Santé Publique
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DO       Development Objective
FADC     Fonds d'Appui au Développement Communautaire
HH       Households
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IPPF     International Planned Parenthood Federation
MICS     Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys
MOH      Ministry of Health
MTR      Mid-Term-Review
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
NPHRD    National Plan for Human Resources Development
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCD      Project Concept Document
PNAC     Pharmacie Nationale Approvisionnement des Comores
PNLP     Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR      Project Status Report
TTL      Task Team Leader
UN       United Nations
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
URP      Unité Régionale du Projet
WHO      World Health Oganization

                            Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo

 Country Director:  James Bond
  Sector Manager:   Laura Frigenti
Task Team Leader:   Jean-Pierre Manshande

                  ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
                                        Health Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8 Borrower's Contribution -- Summary                                       27
Annex 9 Beneficiary Evaluation                                                   29

Project ID: P052887                                                  Project Name: Health Project
Team Leader: Jean-Pierre Manshande                                   TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 7, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Project                                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-30430
   Country/Department: COMOROS                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (79%); Central government administration (20%);
                            Compulsory health finance (1%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Health system performance (P);
                            Child health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/23/1997                                     Effective: 07/01/1998                06/06/2000
     Appraisal: 10/09/1997                                         MTR: 11/30/2000                  06/02/2002
      Approval: 02/26/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF COMOROS/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               James P. Bond                                  Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Laura Frigenti                                 Nicholas R. Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Jean-Pierre Manshande                          Eileen Murray
ICR Primary Author:             Peter Bachrach


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original project DO was to reduce mortality from common diseases, particularly malaria, by
ensuring a better utilization of health facilities for the delivery of quality health care to the vast
majority of the population and by organizing mosquito control activities to reduce the incidence of
malaria.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was not formally revised, although the DCA was amended twice: (i) to
reflect changes in the country's institutional arrangements following several years of political
conflict and suspension of Bank activity; and (ii) to reallocate the credit proceeds to achieve the
DO. Given the breadth and continued relevance of the DO as well as the flexibility of the Task
Team during implementation, a formal revision was considered unnecessary.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised four components: (a) rehabilitation and equipment of selected health
facilities ($3.1 million); (b) control of malaria ($3.9 million); (c) institutional strengthening ($2.4
million); and (d) project management ($0.6 million). Overall, these components constituted the
logical follow-on to two previous projects (and more than a decade of IDA support) to the health
sector and specifically built on the presumed reforms of the Population and Human Resources
Project, which at closing in June 1999 was rated highly satisfactory both in terms of its DO and its
IP.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised. The amounts allocated to credit categories were
revised after the mid-term review as follows (in US$):

                     Category                          Initial amount  Revised amount

Civil works                                                   1,500,000        2,700,000
Equipment, vehicles and supplies                              3,000,000        3,000,000
Consultant services, training, studies and audits             2,800,000        1,900,000
Operating costs                                                 500,000          800,000
Unallocated                                                     600,000                0
Total                                                       8,400,000          8,400,000

These modifications reflected cost savings resulting from the revision of the national malaria
control strategy and new financial needs resulting from the consensus on resolving more than
three years of politico-institutional conflict.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry. A Quality at Entry Assessment was carried out during project implementation
in October 2001. It rated the overall quality as satisfactory; the project's concept, objectives,
and approach highly satisfactory; and environmental aspects as well as the risk and sustainability
analyses as marginal. Bank inputs and processes were rated satisfactory. The total elapsed time
between project concept and appraisal was 9.6 months and between appraisal and Board was 3.7



                                                    - 2 -

months. Effectiveness was delayed 15.9 months due to the suspension of the Bank's program.
Both management's contributions and peer reviewers' guidance were rated as marginal, while
support services were rated as satisfactory. The quality assessment noted that: (i) the project was
fully consistent with the existing CAS objectives (as of December 1993); and (ii) the project's DO
were "specific, clear, realistic, and modest ... building on the previous project ... and avoiding the
public sector."

Project at risk at any time. Except for the PSRs prepared during project suspension and the
final PSR, project ratings for achievement of the DO and for project implementation were
considered satisfactory; the project was therefore not considered at risk during the period of
effective implementation. The PSRs did estimate the summary risk rating as high during the
suspension and substantial from June 2000 to project closing.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unfortunately, while the MICS (2000) provides an adequate baseline for measuring impact, the
inadequacies of the country's information system and the unavailability of the necessary follow-up
studies preclude an assessment of project outcomes (infant mortality rate, number of
malaria-related deaths, health center attendance rates).

Despite the satisfactory achievement of the objectives for malaria control, overall achievement of
the DO is considered unsatisfactory due to (i) the tardy completion of the planned civil works
and equipment, which has decreased the anticipated impact of the improved infrastructure; (ii) the
current shortage of medical and paramedical personnel, which (in the absence of supervisory
activities and inadequate staff motivation) contributed to the continued poor quality of health
care; and (iii) the high costs of services, which significantly reduced financial accessibility (for
both basic care and referral hospital services) for a large part of the population.

4.2 Outputs by components:
From the end of the suspension (June 2000) through the last formal supervision (December 2003),
each of the project's four components was consistently ranked "satisfactory" in the PSRs. In June
2004, prior to the closing date, the health facility rehabilitation component and the institutional
strengthening component were downgraded to "unsatisfactory."

Component A. Rehabilitation and equipment of selected health facilities: Unsatisfactory

The project's outputs were achieved, and it contributed significantly to the rehabilitation or
construction of health facilities in 12 of the 17 districts and supplied equipment to 13 of the 17
principal health facilities. Further, at the time of the mid-term review, the project reallocated
resources to fund civil works and equipment for several additional health facilities and the health
administration offices of the autonomous islands. Generally speaking, the civil works visited by
the ICR team were judged to be satisfactory (especially in Anjouan and Mohéli), although the
finishing touches were not entirely satisfactory. Because the works were carried out late in the
project and some equipment was delivered only toward the end of the project, several problems
related to reception and merchandise warranty remain unresolved.



                                                  - 3 -

The PAD argued that the greater availability of infrastructure and equipment would improve the
quality of health care delivered in the health facilities, leading to increased attendance rates for
curative and preventive care and to more revenue generated, which in turn could be used to
subsidize other (less profitable) services. Several problems arose which cast doubts about this
scenario. First, available data show that the current utilization of services remains unchanged (or
has even regressed in certain instances), and it is not clear that utilization rates will increase (and
even if they do, it will be difficult to attribute them to the project due to the poor quality of the
information systems) because: (i) the cost of services constitute a financial barrier for a large
proportion of the population, particularly at the CHR level; and (ii) the cost of drugs and other
consumables available in the health facility pharmacies is very high (often due to the excessively
high prices of the PNAC). Second, it is not clear that the receipts generated will resolve the
serious underfunding of the sector, particularly since the regulations for managing these funds
have not been implemented: (i) there are no annual management and financial reports; (ii) the
boards of directors do not receive an annual action plan or its respective estimated budget; and
(iii) there is no accounting system, apart from the monitoring of the cashier and the treasury.

Component B. Control of malaria: Satisfactory

Though certain important program elements (e.g., environmental sanitation) were not included in
the project design and not all the component's activities were implemented, those that were --
such as support for the national program (PNLP), technical assistance to revise the national
malaria control strategy and treatment guidelines, and collaboration among the principal actors to
implement a community-based strategy -- contributed to the satisfactory implementation of this
component.

Project support was particularly important for PNLP, as the component financed: (i) rehabilitation
and equipment of this service; and (ii) training of 3 medical and 3 paramedical staff at the Pasteur
(Madagascar) Institute's course on malaria. In addition, the component financed technical
assistance to revise the original national malaria control strategy from a reliance on spraying, to a
more technically feasible, economically sound, and environmentally friendly approach through the
broad utilization of bed nets and the use of larvae-eating fish. The project procured 100,000 bed
nets (which complemented the purchase of 52,000 bed nets from other non-IDA sources) and
80,000 impregnation kits and financed the construction of a dozen breeding basins (serving some
250 villages) for larvae-eating fish (mainly in Grande Comore). In collaboration with WHO and
UNICEF, community mobilization efforts (organization of national days, radio programs,
newspaper articles, etc.) informed the communities of the malaria control activities and the
importance of bed nets. Finally, with support from the Pasteur Institute, a study of current
anti-malarial drug resistance was conducted, and revised guidelines for prophylaxis and treatment
of malaria were adopted.

Component C. Institutional strengthening: Satisfactory

Based on its original objectives (particularly with respect to proposed support for PNAC and the
mutual health insurance scheme), the component would be rated "unsatisfactory"; based on the



                                                    - 4 -

volume (and overall good quality) of the work actually produced (particularly in such difficult
circumstances), the component should be rated "highly satisfactory." However, due to ongoing
institutional issues between the Union and islands and rapid turnover among high-level staff, the
degree of internalization by health authorities (central and regional) of the results of the studies is
unclear; consequently, achievement of component objectives has been rated "satisfactory."

With respect to human resources , the project supported the preparation of a National Plan for
Human Resources Development which has recently been updated with sub-plans at island level.
While providing a valuable overall description of the current situation, the NPHRD is less useful
in its analysis of future issues, e.g., the need to address the quantity and the quality of human
resources in the medium term, given the advancing average age of health staff.

The NPHRD served as the basis for selecting: (i) 50 health staff (including 12 medical and 16
paramedical personnel) to receive specialized training abroad in African universities (in Benin,
Niger, and Senegal); and (ii) 39 health staff (including 8 doctors in public health and 31 health
services administrators) to be trained in-country under the auspices of the Centre National de
Formation et de Recherche en Santé Publique with supervision from internationally-recruited
specialists of the University of Bordeaux II. Apart from the final papers prepared by the CNFRSP
students (see Annex 7), no evaluation of the approach or the quality of the training was available.
Further evaluation of the return rate of the trained staff to suitable positions and the usefulness of
the training over time will be necessary.

Project financing also rehabilitated offices, purchased equipment and vehicles for MOH and the
island directorates, and provided operating costs which would not otherwise have been available
through the Government budget. In addition, the project funded important work in analyzing the
sector and in formulating policies and plans (see Annex 7). Much of the sector analysis focused
on poverty, specifically the access to care (study on indigence) and the impact of exemptions on
the use of preventive services. The project also participated in the household survey on the
utili-zation of health services; organized regional workshops to draft preparatory health
documents for the PRSP; analyzed the pilot village insurance scheme; and carried out the
beneficiary survey. Further, the project supported preparation and partially funded the Etats
Généraux de la Santé, which was a necessary step toward the formulation of the current National
Health Policy, which strengthens some elements of the previous sanitary reform. Based on the
results of the Etats Généraux, the project also supported the production of a Three-Year
Investment Plan.

Finally, the project partly financed two major surveys: (i) an evaluation of the HIV situation
(sero-prevalence, socio-behavioral survey, etc.) with UNICEF, UNDP, WHO, and Sherbrooke
University of Canada; and (ii) the National Population and Habitat census under the auspices of
UNFPA.

Component D. Project Management: Satisfactory (see sections 5.3 and 7.6)

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A



                                                    - 5 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
The PAD did provide a cost-effectiveness analysis for each of the components, but subsequent
developments (in the evolution of the context and the implementation of the project) make the
assumptions on which the analysis was based virtually meaningless for current comparison.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a moderate impact on the institutional development of the sector. Support for
decentralization was already firmly established within the health sector, but the project's revision
of the DCA to recognize and finance the island implementation units provided added backing for
the process. Health sector support and the project's own initial objectives for implementing a
national poverty reduction strategy were far less broadly accepted. Subsequently, the project kept
the issue at the forefront of the country dialogue (through the institutional strengthening
component, the organization of "health and poverty" workshops, etc.), but it had no visible
impact on Ministry or Government policies and strategies.

Within the health sector, the institutional development impact could have been substantial if the
appropriate decision-making structures had operated effectively. At ministerial level, conflicts
between the central and island authorities contributed to the underutilization of a number of
documents offering options for strengthening the sector: the national health policy, the
medium-term investment plan, the human resources development plan, the study of options for
financing prenatal care, etc.). In other areas, project support for the HIV/AIDS analysis and the
national census provide a sound basis for dialogue with the Government. At health facility level,
the operationalization of the management bodies (as envisioned by the health reform legislation)
and the increased involvement of the community could have contributed to better organization
and more rational prices for public health services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Ongoing socio-political conflict. The Third Health Project was implemented during a period of
virtually constant internal strife and increasing socio-economic disorder, which qualified the
country for LICUS status, hindered implementation, and delayed any chance of positive impact
during the life of the project. Suspension of the second project (for non-payment of arrears),
delays in the start of the third project (following the secession of Anjouan from the federation),
and the need to revise the DCA within the context of a decentralized institutional structure (to
include project implementation units for each island), effectively reduced the length of the project
from 4 to 3 years (from June 2001 to June 2004).

Reduced foreign assistance. The 3-year health sector investment plan (May 2002) demonstrated
the Government's reliance on foreign assistance and indicated the potential implications of a
projected 50% reduction between 2003 and 2005 as a result of the prolonged crisis. As a
consequence, the project became de facto the single remaining source of financing for
implementing a broad range of health sector development activities (and the volume of project
activities was in fact increased). With the subsequent drop in the value of the dollar the problem
was further aggravated, as it is estimated that the financing available from the project was reduced
by some $800,000 (or 9.5% of the proceeds of the credit).


                                                     - 6 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government preference for infrastructure and chronic underfunding of the health sector.
Government's determination to use the credit to rehabilitate and (to some extent) expand
infrastructure, combined with the known sector financing issues, led to predictable problems for
both implementation of the project and achievement of the development objectives. Initially, the
project allocated approximately 50% of the proceeds for civil works and goods; at mid-term, the
amount allocated for these categories was estimated at more than 70% of the total amount of the
credit.

While the project was responsive to the client's real need to rehabilitate a health infrastructure in
disrepair, and there were justifications (on a case by case basis) for the rehabilitation of selected
health facilities, no overall health facility development plan was ever prepared to justify (or limit)
the use of project funds. Nor was sufficient consideration given to the Government's inability to
finance non-salary related (and periodically even salary related) recurrent costs and to the issue of
whether the Government could maintain the new investments or whether such costs would
ultimately undermine potential gains in the effectiveness and quality of health services.

Underdeveloped sector reforms and resource management tools. The project assumed that
the prior adoption of the sectoral reforms provided a basis for investment in infrastructure; in fact,
few of the regulatory instruments adopted by the Government were effectively implemented, and
the project should have allocated more resources for and attention to the monitoring of reforms.

In addition, while the project tried to improve human resources, sector financing issues were only
barely addressed, drug accessibility was inadequately addressed, and maintenance was pushed off
to the future project. Despite the capacity building efforts of the previous project and the other
aid agencies (especially UN and the few bilateral donors), management of the health sector's
human, material, and financial resources remains rudimentary at best. The rapid turnover of high
level health officials, the lack of administrative and financial controls, and the absence of real
accountability have allowed the (often indiscriminate) development of dubious pricing policies and
medical practices within the public and private (or rather privatized public) sectors.

Inadequate development of pro-poor policies for health services delivery. Though a national
anti-poverty plan was formulated and endorsed by the Government, this plan was not translated
into initiatives to increase access to quality health services for the poor. Further, the PAD argued
that in view of the perennial Government underfinancing of the health sector over the previous
decade, the project should enable the health facilities to "function to the maximum extent through
cost recovery mechanisms and external financing." Not surprisingly, the lack of Government
financial support to the sector has resulted in pronounced efforts by public health facilities to
generate funds (through the payment of fees, laboratory tests, drugs, etc.); combined with the lack
of guidelines and controls for the management of receipts and the continued poor quality of
services, these efforts have decreased utilization rates, particularly for the poor.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Limited implementation capacity. Despite the fact that the project was the third in the sector,
implementation capabilities remained limited. Further, because of delays in project start-up as


                                                     - 7 -

well as the need to recruit the various new implementation staff on the different islands, previous
implementation experience from the second project was lost. In addition, the second health
project did not produce an implementation manual which was done prior to the third health
project but was subsequently revised to take into account new institutional and organizational
arrangements. Even these changes could not anticipate certain difficulties encountered by the
implementation units when meetings between representatives of the different islands were needed.


Procurement difficulties. In addition to the usual problems (complexity, slowness, etc.) with
procurement, a number of other difficulties arose from: (i) the lack of interest in the Comoros as a
market for works, goods, and services; and (ii) the inadequacies of the single commercial bank
present in Moroni. In particular, the packaging of the procurement packages in small lots may
have favored local competition but did not guarantee quality. With somewhat more creative
packaging (e.g., equipment purchase with maintenance), the amount of the overall package might
have resulted in a more advantageous offer for the project. Further, as an evaluation of the civil
works component notes, the technical capacity of the successful bidders was suspect and the
quality of the works, goods, and services provided was questionable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost of US$ 10.0 million was to be financed by IDA (84%), with support from
WHO (4% for malaria case management), UNICEF (2% for community mobilization),
Government (1% for in-kind contributions), and beneficiaries (9% essentially for the purchase of
bed nets). As of the end of May 2004, cumulative IDA disbursements totaled SDR 5.8 million or
94% of the credit, with the remaining funds totally committed. Data on the contributions from
the other financing sources are unavailable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
While the overall assessment for project sustainability is considered unlikely, this assessment
varies by project component.

Component A. Rehabilitation and equipment of selected health facilities: Highly Unlikely

The sustainability rating of the component is based on an inadequate definition of responsibilities
for maintenance and insufficient financial resources likely to be available to maintain the current
project's investments. As a disbursement condition for civil works, the management board of
each health facility had to sign (prior to starting the civil works) an agreement stipulating their
administrative and financial responsibilities for the three years following completion of the
rehabilitation. In fact, these agreements were not systematically signed, and in any case their
enforceability was doubtful and the amounts promised were not based on any financial analysis of
the facility (as was intended by the disbursement condition). Subsequently, the health component
of the FADC Project has committed sufficient funds to cover (according to the rough calculations
of the ICR team) the most sensitive equipment already purchased by the project but would not
cover any new equipment envisaged by the new FADC.




                                                  - 8 -

Even more generally, there is no coherent health sector financing strategy to ensure the
accessibility, quality, and concomitant utilization of health services. Since Government finances
only salaries (and even then, only intermittently), without donor support the only funding readily
available to the health services results from cost recovery, which has not proved to be beneficial
to the populations. A 20% tax on alcohol and tobacco to be used to finance health services has
been adopted by the Government but not yet implemented. The Ministry of Social Affairs
believes that this tax would generate 180 million FC a year, but this amount constitutes only a
third of the reported revenues generated by cost recovery. It seems unlikely that even full
implementation of the tax would provide adequate financing to maintain the health facilities.

Component B. Control of malaria: Likely

The sustainability of this component is based on: (i) adaptation of the initial program strategy to
the existing social and political realities of the country; (ii) establishment of a fund generated by
the project's sale of bed nets to ensure the purchase of additional bed nets; and (iii) newly
available Global Fund resources to continue implementation of the current strategy with a
particular emphasis on community mobilization (given the Fund's conclusion that this aspect was
somewhat neglected by the Project and the National Program). While there are continuing doubts
about the commitment of the authorities of the Grande Comore to implement the larvae-eating
fish element, concerns about Government's capacity to properly implement the new guidelines for
first line drug treatment, and potential difficulties with future re-impregnation and/or replacement
of bed nets, the project has initiated the appropriate steps to increase the chances that the
activities will be sustained.

Component C. Institutional strengthening: Unlikely

With respect to training, much of the long-term specialist training has not yet been completed. It
will be financed in the future by the FADC Project, but the decision to carry out the training in
other African countries (rather than in France) will certainly increase the likelihood that the
specialists return to the Comoros. No information is yet available to assess the beginning and
final competencies of those who participated in the training organized locally by the University of
Bordeaux; further; a similar test should be executed within 6-9 months to determine the durability
and ultimate usefulness of the knowledge and skills acquired.

With respect to the other elements of this component, sustainability is considered "unlikely" due
to: (i) the lack of clear responsibilities and required resources for the central level to carry out its
constitutional mandates; (ii) insufficient capacity to implement the required sectoral reforms, even
in those (rare) instances where there is consensus on what should be done; and (iii) inadequate
financial resources for the foreseeable future to encourage the Government to implement adequate
measures to monitor performance of and improve accountability for health service delivery.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With no follow-on health project, transition arrangements were ongoing at the time of the ICR
mission; three issues were already apparent: (i) the pending arrangements for completing the
actions of the closed project; (ii) the orderly transfer of the project's material acquisitions and
technical competence; and (iii) the lack of a mechanism to monitor the project's contributions to


                                                    - 9 -

the development of the health sector.

Completion of pending project actions. Two aspects of the completed project have been
included in the proposed FADC Project: (i) the costs of maintaining the equipment purchased by
the health project; and (ii) the remaining costs for training some 20 health professionals who have
already commenced their specialist training.

Orderly transfer of the project's human and material resources. While CEP has taken the
required administrative measures to ensure that equipment and vehicles acquired by the project
are transferred to the appropriate bodies (i.e., from the implementing units at central level to the
Union ministry and at local level to the island ministries), the transfer of the human resources
developed by the project is unclear. Because the implementation units were not integrated into
the different health administrations (and project staff were contractual), the effective transfer of
the technical capacity developed by the project to the local health administrations is unlikely.

Follow-up on the closed project. Perhaps more important than the lack of funding to ensure the
proper functioning of the investments in infrastructure and human resources is the uncertainty
surrounding the institutional structures, responsibilities, and arrangements established under the
new Union constitution. The project attempted on several occasions to interest the authorities in
conducting an institutional assessment, but this proposal was never accepted.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, the Bank's lending performance is judged to be satisfactory, primarily because: (i) the
project concentrated on the appropriate issues and provided an adequate level of resources; and
(ii) whatever design flaws eventually emerged could have been identified and addressed earlier
during implementation (see 7.2 below).

Lending performance must be seen in the context of the Bank's evolving strategy for LICUS
countries in general and for Comoros as a whole. Following unsuccessful efforts by the Bank and
the IMF (2000-02) to implement programs to stem the country's socio-economic decline, a
transition support strategy was negotiated and adopted (2003-04) with the objectives of
main-taining basic social services and facilitating capacity-building to create more viable
institutions. In response to a pattern of unsuccessful public sector projects, a fundamental part of
this strategy involved reorienting the Bank's portfolio away from support for
Government-implemented projects and toward community-driven projects. At the time of project
closing, the Bank's portfolio comprised two projects, with the health project as the only remaining
Bank intervention being implemented by the Government. In other words, while Bank lending to
the country as a whole, and to the public sector in particular, was ultimately judged
unsatisfactory, the health project was rightly not included among these failed projects and was
maintained through closing.

While the Quality at Entry Assessment of October 2001 anticipated some of these conclusions, it
nevertheless evaluated the Bank's performance in preparing the project as satisfactory, though



                                                  - 10 -

noting accurately that risks (and risk minimization measures) were only marginally satisfactory. In
particular, QEA's identification of the lack of "an exit strategy" with respect to facility
rehabilitation and equipment should have provoked more action, since the project's results may
ultimately aggravate sector financing (at least theoretically, since the Government will certainly
not be increasing its non-salary recurrent budget).

7.2 Supervision:
Though implementation and supervision support from the Bank's Task Team were regular and
responsive to the evolving needs of the client, repeated Bank missions and management reviews
of the PSRs failed to adequately assess the diminishing chances of achieving the DOs and thus to
propose timely and appropriate corrective measures; consequently, supervision performance was
unsatisfactory.

Organized from headquarters prior to suspension supervision was carried out by the country
office based in Madagascar thereafter. From July 2000 to June 2004, seven site visits were
conducted, including the Mid-Term Review held in May 2002. The frequent presence of the
TTLs in the field as well as the support of the country office (and at critical moments of the
Country Director) was highly appreciated by the client and the other development partners.
Budget constraints limited the range of support but project management skills and the continuity
of project supervision staff was appropriate. In particular, the aide-memoires provided the
necessary guidance to enable the project management staff to avoid potential difficulties.

Two project design issues emerged during implementation and should have been addressed. First,
with respect to the health facility rehabilitation component, the Bank focused on outputs (e.g.,
civil works, equipment, training, etc.) and continued to assume that improvements in supply
would resolve the persistent under-utilization of services. While supervision emphasized the need
for: (i) other accompanying measures (e.g., norms and standards, supervision, etc.) to ensure the
quality of health services and (ii) complementary demand-enhancing activities (including reduction
or elimination of fees for certain services), the results came too late, the institutions lacked the
capacity to implement changes, and the resources to address demand-related issues had already
been spent on increased supply.

Second, with respect to the institutional strengthening component, the Bank neglected the
formulation and monitoring of measures to provide continuing support for the implementation of
the reforms initiated and/or achieved by the second project. In particular, the project's inability to
strengthen health facility management, to increase the accessibility of affordable drugs, and to
improve the accessibility of the poor to health services constitutes a weakness of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was rated unsatisfactory despite the many positive results obtained (in
large measure as a result of the Bank's commitment and flexibility) under extremely difficult
circumstances. This rating is justified by the fact that the Bank focused on disbursing the credit
with insufficient regard for the measures initially envisioned to protect the investments and
inadequate analysis of the project's progress and prospects. Whether the Bank had any adequate
measures available to force appropriate changes is debatable: the country portfolio was being
drastically modified and reoriented (see 7.1); the health project had already been suspended once


                                                 - 11 -

and its implementation period reduced (see 5.1); and the civil works and equipment contracts had
already been tendered.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As a follow-up project, Borrower performance was satisfactory. The borrower was actively
involved in preparing architectural designs for the health facilities rehabilitation component and
provided a quality technical team to prepare the malaria component.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Due to frequent changes among ministerial authorities and lack of Government commitment for
the objectives of the project, Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. It
should be noted that no counterpart funding was required from the Government based on its
continuing inability to provide such funds.

Two conditions of the DCA were not met. First, the DCA required, as a condition for civil works
disbursement, that each health facility to be rehabilitated have established adequate financial
systems with financial statements produced and validated by MOH and satisfactory to IDA.
While none of the four facilities evaluated prior to disbursement were found to meet the
condition, agreement could not be reached on how to remedy the situation, and the civil works
went forward anyway. Second, the DCA mandated annual sector reviews, but none was ever
held, due to the islands' inability to agree on the appropriate institutional venue for organizing the
event; indeed, the workshop to discuss the results of the mid-term review only occurred when
responsibility for it was shifted from the Ministry of Health to the Commissariat au Plan. In lieu
of such reviews, project staff were invited to participate in formal meetings among partners, often
during the supervision missions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the Cellule d'exécution du projet (CEP) was satisfactory despite the
poor performance of the procurement unit.

From the beginning, the project implementation unit included staff from the previous project
responsible for procurement and financial management. Selection of the project coordinator was
protracted, and his annual performance reviews (and contract renewal) by the ministry officials
(first Health and then Social Affairs) were a potential source of conflict. Recruitment of project
staff for the different islands went smoothly and their presence facilitated project implementation
(even when conflict between the central and island authorities was most acute). Project staff
remained stable during implementation.

Approval of project plans respected the DCA, with both the annual work plans and budgets and
any subsequent modifications submitted to the TTL for non objection. The required quarterly
reports were, however, not prepared and annual reports were not readily available; several
sum-mary reports (prepared for the MTR and the ICR) were prepared but were more descriptive
than analytical. Financial management was strong and allowed the project to remain within
budget even with a weakening dollar over the final year of the project. Though not every audit
was completed within the timeframe of the DCA, all were unqualified.



                                                 - 12 -

Procurement planning and implementation were far less satisfactory. An evaluation of the civil
works noted significant weaknesses (due in large measure to poor performance by the consultant
recruited to control the quality of civil works), and discussions with the local health authorities
indicate their dissatisfaction with the quality of the equipment delivered. The existence of a single
commercial bank in Moroni and its unwillingness to provide even a simple letter of credit also
undermined the performance of the procurement unit.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was rated unsatisfactory. Though there are mitigating
circum-stances for this conclusion (the ongoing politico-institutional conflict, the reduced time
period for project implementation, and the results of comparable projects being implemented by
the Union Government), the inadequate achievement of the DOs and the unlikely sustainability of
the project's outputs provide the justification for this rating.

8. Lessons Learned

The difficulties of maintaining health sector reforms should not be underestimated. Given
the achievements of the previous project, the current project estimated the risk of not continuing
the reforms as "moderate" and provided relatively little technical and financial support (only about
10% of the total project cost) for pursuing the reforms. In fact, very few of the legal and
regulatory texts cited in the PAD ever became operational, and there is no indication that the third
health project invested significant time or effort in following up on them. Of particular
importance was the insufficient project preparation to follow-up on the PNAC and to develop
modalities for ensuring services for the poor. The risk should probably have been considered
"substantial" at a minimum and appropriate measures included to ensure continued support and
monitoring during implementation.

Project restructuring should be considered after long delays in implementation. Despite the
lengthy preparation and delays in implementation due to the suspension, the current project was
eventually implemented without major changes in its overall formulation. Instead, project
modi-fications occurred in a piecemeal fashion: (i) when the malaria control strategy was
substantially modified (but without a change in the DCA); (ii) then after the formal determination
of the islands' powers and prerogatives required a revised DCA; and (iii) finally when significant
additional changes were incorporated during the mid-term review. Given the sum total of these
changes (and the intervening classification of Comoros as a LICUS country), a more thorough
review of the project earlier might have been useful. In this sense, the perhaps too narrow focus
of the QEA conducted in 2001 constituted a missed opportunity.

Regional specificities, even in small countries, must be taken into account during project
preparation and implementation. While the PAD correctly identified political instability as a
high risk, the mitigation measure ("to work with a community focus") did not sufficiently capture
the particularities of the islands (e.g., health care expenditures in Grande Comore are generally
four to six times higher than in Anjouan or Mohéli) and the sensitivities involved in working with
them individually and collectively. The establishment of the island implementing units was an
important step in recognizing the need to adapt project implementation to the concerns of the



                                                   - 13 -

local authorities. As a result, though the island authorities contested a number of the project's
ideas, the island implementation units were able to assure them that the project would be adapted
to the local context (which was especially important in the case in Anjouan).

Where capacity for policy analysis and program decision-making is inadequate, project
design and implementation must develop a consensus for program implementation. The
project was able to overcome implementation problems and execute the facility rehabilitation and
malaria control components of the project because there was consensus on what to do. Where
project resources were used to develop a consensus and a plan for responding to emerging issues
and opportunities, project performance was more problematic. On the one hand, while there was
no recognition in the PAD (or the Letter of Sector Policy) of the need to improve (or the risk of
not improving) the availability and use of health management information for improving service
delivery, the project demonstrated that where data were collected on a perceived problem (e.g.,
on the malaria control strategy and the distribution of human resources), it was used to make
important decisions.

On the other hand, the future use of the studies carried out on issues involving accessibility of the
poor to quality health services will be instructive, since it is unclear that the authorities perceive
this as a problem in the same way that IDA does. In the similar instance of the project's support
for the organization of the Etats Généraux de la Santé, the formulation of a revised health policy,
and the preparation of medium-term investment, these analyses were essentially unused, even
though structures were established to help prepare and follow up on the results.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A summary of the Ministry's contribution to the ICR may be found in Annex 8; their evaluation
emphasizes especially the quantitative outputs of the project and the likelihood that the newly
rehabilitated and equipped health facilities, staffed with newly trained health personnel, will
markedly improve the quality of health services. The evaluation notes that the project's results
were achieved despite a very difficult context which continues to evolve; it also argues that future
health sector development must be based on: (i) the linkages between poverty and health
(particularly with respect to financing services for the most vulnerable populations); and (ii) an
evidentiary basis (through more rigorous health information systems) for documented results and
medium-term and annual planning.

These views were echoed in discussions with central and island ministry staff; in addition, the
authorities expressed great anxiety about follow-on financing for the sector and little confidence
that the FADC would provide adequate support either for maintenance of the current investment
or for further development of the health sector.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Currently, with the exception of the UN agencies (WHO, FNUAP, and UNICEF) and the French
Cooperation, there are virtually no other partners. Discussions with the UN agencies, who
parti-cipated directly in implementing the malaria component (WHO and UNICEF) and the
national census (UNFPA), noted in particular the complementary nature of the project's
investments in hardware with their own in software and support. They further noted: (i) the



                                                  - 14 -

useful collaboration in the preparation of terms of reference (e.g., for organizing the local
training); and (ii) the importance of the Bank's role, in the absence of a Government forum, in
promoting the periodic meetings of the partners.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The ICR team met with ASCOBEF (the local IPPF affiliate), which will be executing the Global
Fund grant for malaria and learned that it intends to follow up on the strategy developed under the
current project. The team also examined the proposal by a French NGO to provide assistance to
the Ministry in establishing maintenance capabilities; an analysis was submitted to the TTL.

Though the ICR team did not meet with beneficiaries, previous workshops in 2002, an evaluation
of decentralization in 2003, and a final beneficiary assessment (there was no initial evaluation) in
2004 provide some information on their concerns.

The workshops and focus group interviews indicate similar concerns: (i) the ill-defined but always
high cost of services (for basic pre-natal consultations and assisted delivery and especially for
drugs); (ii) the poor organization of basic and referral services; and (iii) the inhospitable delivery
of services by personnel of often dubious qualifications.

The evaluation of decentralization indicated: (i) overall approval of the performance of the URP
coordinators; and (ii) satisfaction with the results of the project while noting some tension
between the CEP and the URPs in the implementation of the project (particularly concerning the
centralization of certain aspects). At the same time, there were complaints about delays (and
additional needs) in project implementation, the poor quality of the civil works, and the difficulties
of communication.

The beneficiary assessment (see Annex 9) determined that about 25% of household heads knew of
the project's interventions. Household heads overwhelmingly expected the improved
infra-structure (95%) and equipment (99%) to improve the quality of health services. Sixty
percent of household heads were, however; concerned about future maintenance of the facility
and its equipment. Almost 72% of the household heads had either never or rarely utilized the
health facility, principally because of the cost (which 84% estimate as too high).

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Output Indicators
      Indicator at Appraisal              Projected Result at          Actual / Latest (from PSR)
                                              Appraisal
Under 5 Mortality rate                 Decrease from 100 to 75    74/1000 (2000 MICS)
                                       per 1000 live births
No. of deaths due to malaria among     Decrease from 800 to 500   19/590 : 3.2% at El Maarouf
under 5 children                                                  hospital
No. of curative visits per capita per  Increase from 0.4 to 1.0   0.15 Anjouan
year                                                              0.43 Grande Comore (2002)
Beneficiary satisfaction with                                     Final beneficiary assessment
services provided                                                 indicates overall satisfaction
No. of health facilities rehabilitated 4                          14
by the project
No. of health facilities equipped to   5                          11
national standard by the project
No. of MOH personnel trained (both 110                            135
central/regional levels)
Sales of bed nets                      50,000 in 1998 (2000)      50,000 (non impregnated) in 2002
                                       20,000 per year thereafter 30,000 (non impregnated) in 2003
                                                                  for (Grande Comore)
                                                                  11,000 (impregnated) in 2004 for
                                                                  (Anjouan et Mohéli)
No. of bed nets impregnated            60,000 in 1998 (2000)      78,000 impregnation kits distributed
                                       80,000 in 1999 (2001)      Impregnation of bed nets with liquid
                                       100,000 in 2000 (2002)     insecticide continued (number
                                       120,000 in 2001 (2003)     unknown)
                                       140,000 in 2002 (2004)
No. of villages where all cisterns     211 in Grande Comore       11,780 households in Grande
have larva eating fish                 30 in Anjouan              Comore




                                                   - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project cost by component in US$ million equivalent

Project Components        Financier (1)    Appraisal     Actual      Percentage
                                                                     of appraisal
Rehabilitation and
equipment of selected    IDA               3.1          4.67         151%
health facilities in all
three islands
Malaria control          Total             3.9
program
                         IDA               2.3          0.50         22%
                          WHO              0.41
                          UNICEF           0.13
                          Beneficiaries    0.9
                          Government       0.12
Institutional            IDA               2.4
strengthening of MOH                                    3.06         102%
Project                  IDA              0.6
Implementation
Total                    IDA               8.4          8.23         98%
(1) Not-bank-financed includes elements procured under parallel co financing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  1
                                              Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB               2        N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          1.50            0.10          0.00           0.00         1.60
                                  (0.57)         (1.33)        (0.38)         (0.00)        (2.28)
2. Goods                          1.90            0.20          1.10           0.00         3.20
                                  (2.71)         (0.14)        (0.39)         (0.00)        (3.24)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00          3.00           0.00         3.00
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.96)         (0.00)        (1.96)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00          0.60           0.00         0.60
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.77)         (0.00)        (0.77)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                          3.40            0.30          4.70           0.00         8.40



                                               - 17 -

                                       (3.28)             (1.47)            (3.50)            (0.00)           (8.25)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Costs by Category (US$ million equivalent)
Category                             Appraisal        Revised       Disbursed      Percentage
                                                                                   disbursed of
                                                                                   Appraisal
Civil works                          1.5              2.7           2.280          152%
Equipment Vehicle Supplies           3.0              3.0           3.241          108%
Studies Audits, Services             2.8              1.9           1.957          70%
Operating                            0.5              0.8           0.765          153%
Un allocated                         0.6
Fund SA-A Remaining funds in                                        -0.013
the special account
TOTAL                                8.4             8.4            8.231          98%


Project Costs by Year (US$ million equivalent)
  Year                      Original                      Formally                         Actual
(calendar                   Amount                         Revised                        Amount
    yr)                                                    Amount
Appraisal      Actual       Yearly       Cumulative      Yearly          Cumulative     Yearly        Cumulative
1999           2000         0.98         0.98                                           0.31          0.31
2000           2001         2.69         3.67            2.09            2.09           0.20          0.50
2001           2002         2.60         6.27            3.85            5.95           1.97          2.47
2002           2003         1.51         7.78            2.43            8.38           1.26          3.73
2003           2004         0.62         8.4                                            4.30          8.03
               2005                                                                     0.20          8.23
TOTAL                       8.4                          8.4                            8.23




                                                       - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              June/1997                   1    TEAM LEADER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              November/1997               1    TEAM LEADER
              December/1997               1    TEAM LEADER

 Supervision
              August/1998                 2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
              (Site)                           PUBLIC HEALTH
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
              February/1999               1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             U               U
              (Update)
              June/1999 (Update)          1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             U               U
              December/1999               1    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT             U               U
              (Site)                           (1)
              Mar/Apr/Jun/2000            1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             U               U
              (Update)
              July/2000 (Site)            4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                               HEALTH SPECIALIST (2) ;
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1)
              February/2001               4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
              (Site)                           HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                               FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
              April/2001 (Site)           5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                               HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                               FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); PROGRAM
                                               ASSISTANT (1)
              December/2001               2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
              (Site)                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1)
              May/2002 (Update)           1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              Sept/2002                   4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
              (MTR)(Site)                      NGO SOCIAL MARKETING
                                               (1); NGO MALARIA (1);
                                               HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
              May/2003 (Site)             1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              December/2003               3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
              (Site)                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                               ASSISTANT (1)




                                                - 20 -

               June/2004 (Update)         1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)               U    U

 ICR
               August/2004               2     PUBLIC HEALTH                     S    U
               (Site)                          SPECIALIST (1);
                                               MANAGEMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                83,826
  Supervision                                                         435,606
  ICR                                                                  28,473
  Total                                                               547,905




                                               - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Rehabilitation and Equipment of Health Facilities
      Issa Ben Imani, Chamisidimy Lahilahi et Abdallah Ahmed Allaoui, Rapport de la
      Commission Nationale chargée de la finalisation et de la validation du DAO des
      équipements et matériels médico-chirurgicaux des formations sanitaires (déc. 2001).
      Daniel Dupéty, Evaluation des travaux de génie civil (avril 2003).
      Luxconsult, SA, Avant projet de construction du Pavillon mère du CHR El Maarouf de
      Moroni (nov. 2003).
       M. Boinali, Rapport sur les équipements hospitaliers / Compte rendu de la répartition
      des équipements par site (fév. 2004)

Fight against Malaria
      José A. Nájera, Recommandations: Stratégie et plan d'action pour 2001 (nov. 2000).
      Institut Pasteur de Madagascar, Etude de sensibilité des parasites et des vecteurs du
      paludisme dans l'archipel des Comores (août 2001).
      Rapport de la mission à Madagascar sur la formation en marketing social et
      communication (avril-mai 2002).
      Compte rendu de l'atelier relatif à la promotion des moustiquaires imprégnées
      d'insecticide (Grande Comore et Anjouan) (mars-avril 2002).
      Institut Pasteur de Madagascar, Etude d'efficacité thérapeutique sur l'accès palustre
      non compliqué (2003).
      Institut Pasteur de Madagascar, Etude de chimio-sensitivité..

Capacity Building
      Situational Analysis
              MSPCF, Annuaire Statistique pour l'année 1999 (sept. 2001).
              MSPASCF, La santé des Comoriens (janv. 2002).
              Projet Santé III, Recherche qualitative sur l'impact de la gratuité des soins
              antenataux (mars 2002).
              Santé et Pauvreté, Rapport Final des ateliers organisés par le Projet Santé
              III/IDA (mai 2002).
              Michelle Ratsivalaka, Evaluation de la décentralisation et de la performance des
              Unités Régionales du Projet Santé III (juin 2003).
              Projet Santé III, Analyse statistique de l'enquête sur l'accès aux soins des
              catégories sociales en situation de grande précarité (sept. 2003).
              ONUSIDA/Université de Sherbrooke, Enquête socio-comportementale sur le
              VIH/SIDA et IST auprès de la population générale (sept. 2003).
              Kassim A. Mondoha, Yasmina Dada et Mohamed Msaidié, Organisation de
              l'enquête sur l'accès aux soins de santé (2004).
              KAM Invest, Etude d'évaluation d'impacts du Projet Santé III: Etude auprès des
              bénéficiaires (juin 2004).

      Policies and plans
              MSPCF, Document d'orientation stratégique des Etats Généraux de la santé (juil.



                                               - 24 -

             2001).
             MSPASCF, Evaluation de la réforme du système de santé (octobre 2001).
             MSPCF, Etats Généraux de la Santé; Rapport final (novembre 2001).
             MSPASCF, Plan National de Développement des Ressources Humaines
             (2001-2010) (avril 2001).
             Union des Comores, Réactualisation du Plan National de Développement des
             Ressources Humaines (PNDRH) (Grande Comore, Andjouan et Moéli) (sept.
             2003).
             Comité de suivi, Plan Triennal d'investissement pour la période 2003-2005 (mai
2002).

      Summaries of May 2004 studies
             Financement du CNH d'El Maaroug: Analyse retro prospective.
             Analyse du système des approvisionnements des produits pharmaceutiques à
             Mohéli.
             Etude des détérminants de la malnutrition chez les enfants (0-59 mois) dans le
             district sanitaire de Domoni (Anjouan).
             Etude des difficultés liées à la baisse de la couverture vaccinale chez les enfants
             (0-11 mois) dans le district sanitaire de Mitsamiouli.
             Etude critique du fonctionnement du service d'urgence au CHR de Hombo
             (Anjouan).
             Organisation et administration de la santé de l'Ile Autonome de Ngazidja.
             Etude de l'impact de l'utilisation des moustiquaires imprégnées dans l'Ile
             Autonome de Mohéli.
             Le recouvrement de coûts dans le CS de Mremani (Anjouan) 2000-2003.
             Contribution à la consolidation et au développement des mutuelles de santé à la
             Grande Comore.
             Gestion des ressources humaines dans le système de santé aux Comores: Cas du
             CHN El Maarouf.
             Evaluation de l'utilisation des moustiquaires imprégnées dans le district sanitaire
             de Foumbouni.
             Etude sur le tabagisme en milieu scolaire dans l'Union des Comores.

      General Census
             Présidence de l'Union, Commissariat Général du Plan, UNFPA, Direction
             Nationale du Recensement : Projet Appui COI/03/P04 ARGPH "Appui au
             Recensement Général de la Population et de l'Habitat rapport d'activités Année
             2003 (déc. 2003).

Project Management
      Manuel d'exécution du Projet Santé III (mars 1998).
      Delta Audit, Audit de Gestion du Projet Population et Ressources Humaines,
      Composante Santé (nov. 2000).
      Bureau d'études Astrum, Manuel de procédures administratives, comptables et
      financières (janv. 2001).



                                              - 25 -

De Chazal du Mée, Audit du Projet Santé III; Excercice Cloturé le 31 décembre 2000
(Rapport d'audit et rapport de gestion) (juin 2001).
Projet Santé III, Rapport annuel du Projet (juillet 2000 ­ juillet 2001) (juil. 2001).
Société Tomate, Conception d'un système d'information de gestion (déc. 2001).
Société Tomate, Rapport de mise en place du SIG (fév. 2002).
Cabinet Mazan-Fivoarana, Rapport relatif à l'audit des états financiers, des relevés des
dépenses et du compte spécial du Projet Santé III pour l'exercice clos au 31 décembre
2001 (rapport provisoire avril 2002).
CEP, Rapport de la Revue à mi-parcours et de la reprogrammation (mai 2002).
Groupement Mazars & Guérard et Mazars Fivoarana, Rapport relatif à l'audit des états
financiers, des états justificatifs du solde du compte spécial et des relevés des dépenses
du Projet Santé III pour l'exercice clos au 31 décembre 2003 (mai 2004).




                                          - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                            SUMMARY OF THE MINISTRY'S DOCUMENT

The Borrower's full contribution is attached; a summary of the Ministry's document and its
principal observations is presented below.

In summarizing the project's objectives, the Borrower did not simply take the PAD's description,
but restated them (perhaps more convincingly than in the PAD) as follows:

        The overall goal of Health Project III is to help the government enhance the population
        health and welfare, particularly of the most vulnerable groups (women, children, poor).
        Its main aim is poverty reduction and promoting health development by contributing to
        health service strengthening and reducing mortality due to the most common diseases in
        general and to malaria in particular.

        Its operational objectives consist in :
·       Building productive capacity in health system (both preventive and curative care) ;
·       Providing support to central services for these to assume their new functions as regards
reporting, planning, and evaluation ;
·       Granting priority to investment likely to :
        o       Generate new financial resources (rehabilitating health formations, personnel
        training to improve health care quality, etc.) ;
        o       Reduce expenditures (anti-malaria fight) ;
        o       Promote development of local economic activities (funding new materials and
        equipment for PNAC, etc.),
        o       Facilitate setup of a mechanism to fund health insurance and to build up savings.

        Its priorities are expressed essentially at three levels :
·       At central level : to ensure capacity building as regards management and reporting
management,
·       At peripheral structure level : to build and harmonize health and prevention capacity,
·       At regional government level: to consolidate regional government participation in health
system working, and to build their contribution capacity to fund it.

The report provides a very clear presentation (missing in the PAD) of the institutional and
opera-tional framework for project implementation.

For Component A, the report provides detailed information on the quantitative outputs of the
project and in particular of the newly rehabilitated and equipped health facilities; detailed
summaries of the works carried out, the equipments and vehicles purchased, and the costs are
presented for each island as well as for the national level. For Components B and C, the report
provides a less detailed summary of results, little cost information, and virtually no discussion of
the implications of the results achieved.




                                                  - 27 -

The report summarizes in particular the political events which hindered project implementation
and, and the report emphasizes the following constraints:

·       Suspension of IDA credits in 1998 due to the national political context: according to the
project appraisal document, the project design was based on the assumption of a rapid evolution
of the economic, sociological, and political framework, and of the substantial reallocation of
responsibilities to the operations of the health system. However, political instability, public
finance crisis, and separatist crises towards late 1997 and early 1998 led to the fact that the State
was no longer able to meet its financial commitments (regular payment of salaries, allocated
subsidies, debts ...). Such events resulted in suspension of IDA credits between August 1998 and
March 2000.
·       Delay in actual Project activities start-up: The initial Project planned a centralized Project
Implementation Unit. Besides, one of priority actions was designing and setting up a centralized
Project management structure that would involve community representatives in decision making.
The Project had to prepare and implement a new, more decentralized, organization that required:
        o        Signing a decree on the Project organization and working (in October 2000); and
        o        Amending the credit agreement to integrate the March 2001 decentralization.
·       The time limits granted for putting in place the Project management tools (namely as
regards the manual of procedures) caused delay to launching and current activity implementation.
·       Recruitment of personnel (based on candidacy submission) for decentralized structures: it
occurred only in mid-June 2001.
·       Effects of social and political crisis in Anjouan island: political problems and access
difficulties to the islands as a whole, as well as waiting for new institutions caused delay among
some parts of project, namely infrastructure rehabilitation and especially institutional
strengthening. Project activities in Anjouan island were actually launched only in June 2001.

In conclusion, the evaluation notes that future health sector development must be based on: (i) the
linkages between poverty and health (particularly with respect to financing services for the most
vulnerable populations); and (ii) an evidentiary basis (through more rigorous health information
systems) for documented results and medium-term and annual planning.




                                                  - 28 -

Additional Annex 9. Beneficiary Evaluation

The final beneficiary evaluation had as objectives to determine: (i) the population's satisfaction
with the overall development of health services (especially the rehabilitation and equipment of
health facilities) and the results of the malaria control activities; and (ii) the opinions of health
personnel on the institutional support provided by the project. As an introduction, the report also
provides a very useful summary of the current national and island structures involved in health.

A total of 947 households (out of the 1000 which the study had targeted based on the General
Population Census) were questioned. The report provides information on the characteristics of:
(i) the household heads (age, sex, marital status, educational level, profession, etc.); and (ii) the
households (location, size, composition, urban/rural distribution, etc.).

The report then examines the population's knowledge and appreciation of the results of the health
project. Approximately half of the heads of households (47%) had heard of the project; the
project was best known in urban areas and in Mohéli (where 62% of the HHs knew of the
project).

About 25% of HHs were aware of the project's interventions; of those aware of the project's
actions in their district, 31% cited health facility rehabilitation, 21% cited equipment, and 28%
cited malaria control. Beneficiaries uniformly (99%) believe that rehabilitation and equipment of
health facilities is important or very important for improving health services; fewer (73%) believed
that better transport would improve the quality of health services. Sixty percent of HHs were,
however; concerned about future maintenance of the facility and its equipment.

The study estimated that almost two-thirds (64%) of the population was covered by a nearby
health facility. In examining the use of health services, the study determined: (i) that 47% of
households had someone sick in the two weeks preceding the study; and (ii) that 62% of these
households had taken the sick member (diagnosed with malaria in 54% of the cases) to a health
facility. Of those utilizing the health facilities for a sick household member, 82% were satisfied
with the services received. On the other hand, almost 72% of the HHs had either never or rarely
utilized the health facility, and of those who did, 84% considered the services provided to be very
costly.

The study examined household expectations for the quality of health services and found that the
principal preoccupations were: cost (35%), treatment (accueil) including the time spent (29%),
the effectiveness of the care received (21%), and the quality of the personnel (14%).

More than two-thirds (68%) of households stated that at least one household member slept under
a bed net; 74% of the population of Mohéli sleeps under a bed net while 35% in Grande Comore
and 33% (in Anjouan) sleep under a bed net. About 58% of the population were aware of the
positive benefits of bed nets. Of those not using the bed nets, about half felt they were too
expensive while the rest stated that they were used to regular bed nets, or that bed nets were not
readily available, or that they did not have enough information.




                                                   - 29 -

- 30 -

