Report No. PID5951
Project Name                     Comoros-Health Project ...
(Previously Second Human Resources Project)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       KMPE52887
Borrower                         Government of Comoros
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Public Health and Population
Moroni, Comoros
Tel & Fax: (269) 732884
Date PID Prepared                January 15, 1997
Date PID Revised                 January 14, 1998
Project Appraisal                November 6, 1997
Project Board Date                       February 26, 1998
Country Background
1.      The Comoros is a small archipelago in the Indian Ocean, which
has advanced little since independence in 1975 but can do better,
even with its modest potential. The economy is largely rural:
three-fourths of its population of 504,000 earns its living through
agriculture, which also accounts for half of all export earnings.
Population growth of about 2.7w a year has far outpaced GDP growth,
which averaged 0.6w over 1985-96. Weak macroeconomic management and
unresolved structural problems have been to blame, traced, in part,
to a highly unstable political environment. Since a multiparty
system was introduced in 1990 the country has known at least six
changes in government amid several coup attempts, and Cabinet
reshuffles every two to three months. In August 1997, the political
situation reached crisis proportions when two of the three islands
of the Comoros sought independence from the Republic. The
Government has since tried to restore the country's unity.
Encouraging agreement on national reconciliation has been reached
during the national conference in Addis Abeba, organized by the
Organization of African Unity in December 1997. Such a climate
adversely affected the Government's adjustment program launched in
1991. Uneven commitment to improve economic management and
governance ultimately led to deteriorating public finances and weak
private sector response notwithstanding a devaluation of the
Comorian franc in January 1994.
2.      A new government, formed in 1997, has acted to put the
adjustment program back on track. The program aims to restore
financial stability by reducing the budget deficit, and to
accelerate privatization of public enterprises (PEs). Efforts are
under way both to improve revenue collection, by restructuring
customs administration, and to lower the wage bill, by implementing
the 1994 civil service organizational plan and cutting civil servant



salaries. On structural reforms, the Government has agreed to move
towards privatizing public enterprises in utilities, air and
maritime transport, and petroleum imports. To date, the electricity
company has been privatized and the air transport company has been
liquidated. Notwithstanding progress on technical preparation for
privatization, a considerable need exists for strengthening
political commitment and public consensus in support of actual
program implementation.
3.      Against a backdrop of declining real per capita incomes and a
government experiencing serious and chronic financial difficulties,
the village-level communities of the Comoros have become
increasingly self-reliant and have emerged as the primary basis for
hope regarding the country's future. These communities have
demonstrated cohesiveness and an interest in the development
process, a willingness to pay for quality services, and an ability
to take responsibility for management. While a recent Poverty
Assessment revealed that most Comorians live at near-poverty levels,
manifestations of extreme poverty are rare, given a functioning
traditional safety net supported through remittances from abroad.
Community solidarity being strong, a large majority enjoy access to
adequate food, clothing, shelter, basic health care, and water.
Sector Background
4.      In the health sector, the Government has shown an encouraging
commitment to the improvement of the operation and efficiency of the
health sector and health facilities by adopting far reaching
reforms. Considerable improvements can be noted in terms of the
overall organization of the health system, the functionality and
efficiency of health facilities, the numbers and responsibilities of
health personnel, and community participation in the health sector
reforms and cost recovery mechanisms. The Comorian population is
now beginning to accept these reforms due to the improved quality of
health care and has come to terms with the fact that health care
will no longer be free.
5.      The health sector's legal framework was significantly improved
under the on-going PHR project since a series of legislative texts
were adopted between 1994 and 1996. For instance, responsibilities
at each level of the health care system have been clearly and
adequately delineated. Hospitals have been granted autonomy, and
day-to-day management of health services is carried out by local
teams made up of representatives of both service providers and
community beneficiaries. Another law was passed granting all health
facilities financial and managerial autonomy. This decentralization
with community participation was reinforced by the fact that all
health centers currently have community management associations.
Hospital management and accounting procedures were adapted to take
into account the type of services rendered by each health facility.
Even though the reforms provided for management boards to be put in
place in all three hospitals, this has yet to take place because of
political interference due to the visibility and sensitivity of
these positions. IDA is in the process of taking the necessary
steps to ensure that these Boards become operational quickly so that
- 2-



they can efficiently manage the 1998 budgets and review and approve
the 1997 accounts of each hospital. The low utilization of health
facilities is mainly a supply side phenomenon. A case and point is
the El Maarouf hospital (the Comoros' largest hospital) which has
put into place the new cost recovery system and has managed to
double its receipts in 1996--this trend is expected to continue in
1997 and 1998 and then will probably begin to level off in 1999.
All health facilities have put tarification systems in place which
have been approved by MOH. Because of the solidarity that exists in
Comorian communities in addition to the cross-subsidization which
has began to take place (richer patients subsidizing poorer
patients), it is not expected that cost recovery will deter poor
population groups from seeking proper health care. However, much
remains to be done by MOH to ensure that these reforms have their
greatest impact at the level of each health facility. Another means
of generating additional funds in the health system are informal
twinning arrangements which are taking place between health centers
in the Comoros and abroad. For example, the Mbeni Health Center in
Grande Comore received an ambulance from a health facility in France.
6.      Remarkable progress was made on the personnel front. In
parallel with all of these major reforms, MOH adopted a new
organizational structure. The types of services to be delivered in
each of the country's 17 health facilities was closely looked at in
accordance with sector policies and the new orientations of the
health system. As a consequence, over 500 non-qualified health
workers were laid off. In addition, MOH's skill mix was reassessed
and as a result, 75 health workers were to be transferred between
the health facilities and 126 licensed health care practitioners
were recruited to fill the gaps. Some of these transfers have not
yet taken place due to the fact that MOH lacks resources to pay the
relocation expenses of health practitioners moving from one island
to another. Finally, ten Comorian doctors who returned from abroad
after completing their medical studies were hired; therefore, most
of the country's health facilities are currently managed by nationals.
7.      In parallel with the reform, MOH has initiated efforts to
rehabilitate and better equip some of the country's health
facilities.  In addition, an ambitious training program for health
workers that is underway, is financed under the on-going project.
However, the main problem that the Comorian health system is faced
with is that the Government has not been able to come up with the
budgetary allocations for the country's health facilities. In 1995,
the European Union provided this financing. In 1996, less than 10
percent of the agreed upon non-wage budget was actually allocated to
the MOH. Judging by the trends of the last 10 years, this is a
potential problem that could adversely affect the health reform process.
Project Objectives
8.      The project's overall objective is to reduce the mortality from
common diseases, particularly malaria, by ensuring a better
utilization of health facilities for the delivery of quality health
care to the vast majority of the population and by organizing vector
control activities to reduce the incidence of malaria.
- 3 -



Project Description
9.      The proposed project will be implemented over a four-year
period and its total cost is estimated at US$10.0 million. The
project will have the following components: (a) rehabilitation and
equipment of selected health facilities in all three islands; (b)
malaria control program; and (c) institutional strengthening of MOH
which will include training for health facility as well as MOH
staff, studies for the development of alternative mechanisms for
health financing, technical assistance for selected public health
topics and twinning arrangements with health facilities abroad.
Project Financing
10.     The total project costs are estimated at US$10.0 million over a
four year period. IDA would finance US$8.4 million, beneficiaries
would be expected to contribute US$900,000; WHO and UNICEF will
contribute $500,000 and $100,000 in parallel financing for the
malaria control program.
Project Implementation
11.     The General Secretary of the Ministry of Public Health and
Population will be responsible for the overall supervision of the
project (including close follow-up of the on-going health sector
reforms) and for overseeing the implementation by MOH directorates
and line agencies of the three project components. A project
implementation unit (Cellule d'Execution du projet - CEP) will also
support the implementation of this project and among other things
will be responsible for preparing annual work programs and budgets
for all activities, ensuring the coordination of the different
components, accounting for funds, preparing bidding documents and
managing technical assistance contracts.
Project Sustainability
12.     The project's sustainability will be ensured by improving MOH's
overall capacity to manage the sector in an efficient manner and
ensure that cost recovery mechanisms are functioning properly in all
health facilities in order for these facilities in turn to provide
better health services. Through the macro-economic dialogue, it is
envisaged that the Government's track record for paying civil
servants, including health workers, will improve so that revenues
generated through cost recovery are not diverted to pay health workers.
Lessons Learned from previous IDA Involvement
13.     The Bank is currently financing a Population and Human
Resources Project which is expected to close in 1998. This project
builds on the successful results in terms of attainment of
development objectives as well as implementation progress of the on-
going project. The main lesson learned is that the Government is
not likely to finance anything except for wages in the sector and
therefore alternative mechanisms need to be sought to ensure proper
operation of the health sector. Thus, the project has been designed
- 4 -



for the health sector to be able to function to the maximum extent
through cost recovery mechanisms and external financing. Studies in
the Comoros show that beneficiaries are willing to pay for health
care, provided it is of good quality.
Poverty Category
14.     The project is part of the program of targeted interventions (PTI).
Environmental Aspects
15.     The project has been rated "C".    There are no major
environmental issues. The insecticide to be used for malaria
control activities will be selected after it has been approved by
WHO; it will have a limited toxicity and will not cause
environmental damage. All health facilities to be rehabilitated by
the project will have incinerators.
Program Objective Categories
16.     The proposed project will contribute to poverty reduction and
improve the overall health status of the Comorian population.
Contact Point:   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The InfoShop week ending January 30, 1998.
- 5 -



