Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3043 COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Project)
between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 19, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3043 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 1998, between ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC 
OF THE COMOROS (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Association  has received a letter dated December 10, 
1997, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen its health sector (the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
pursuant to the Technical Cooperation Program for the 
1998-2000 period agreed upon between the Borrower and the World Health 
Organization (WHO), the Borrower intends to contract from WHO a grant 
(the WHO Grant) in an amount equivalent to $400,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the WHO Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and WHO;
(D)
pursuant to the Cooperation Framework Program for the 
Page  2
1996-2000 period agreed upon between the Borrower and United Nations 
Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Borrower intends to contract from UNICEF a 
grant (the UNICEF Grant) in an amount equivalent to $100,000 to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the UNICEF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and UNICEF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any 
amount of the Credit 
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, with respect to any contract to  be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower 
or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent 
with the procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Page  3
Borrower 
to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“DGTP” means Direction Générale des Travaux Publics, the 
Borrower’s General Directorate responsible for public works;
(b)
“Franc de la République Fédérale Islamique des Comores” or 
“KMF” means the currency of the Borrower;
(c) 
“Health Law” means Law No. 94-016, dated June 17, 1994, 
establishing the general framework for the health system, and the mandate 
and responsibilities of the public health sector;
(d) 
“IEC” means information, education and communication;
(e)
“MSPP” means Ministère de la Santé Publique et de la 
Population, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health and Population;
(f)
“PNAC” means Pharmacie Nationale Autonome des Comores, the 
Borrower’s Drug Procurement Agency;
 (g)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project 
Implementation Manual referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual;
(h)
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means the Project 
Implementation Unit established by the Borrower for purposes of the 
Project, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Selected Health Facilities” means health facilities 
selected or to be selected, for purposes of Part A of the Project, in 
accordance with selection criteria agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Association, and specified in the Project Implementation Manual;
(j)
“SLMTV” means Service de Lutte contre les Maladies à 
Transmission Vectorielle, the division of MSPP responsible for the 
control of mosquito-borne diseases; and
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
Page  4
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in KMF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 15 and August 15, commencing August 
15, 2008 and ending February 15, 2038.  Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on February 15, 2018 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
Page  5
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MSPP with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to Association, not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
Page  6
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including those for the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
The Health Law shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations arising 
under this Agreement;
(c)
the WHO Grant Agreement or UNICEF Grant Agreement shall have 
failed to become effective by December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes that adequate funds 
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources; and
(d)
(i) 
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the 
right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the WHO 
Grant or the UNICEF Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms 
of the WHO Grant or the UNICEF Grant, as the case may 
be; and
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation 
or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of 
its obligations under the WHO Grant or the UNICEF 
Grant; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified: namely, any 
event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within 
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the draft bidding documents, acceptable to the Association, 
for the proposed rehabilitation of the Hombo hospital and Domoni medical 
and surgical center in Anjouan, and the Mitsamiouli medical and surgical 
center in Grande Comore, have been prepared and submitted to the 
Association for review;
(b)
the Project Implementation Manual has been duly approved by 
the Association, and adopted by the Borrower;
(c)
the Borrower has recruited auditors, pursuant to Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to audit the accounts of the Project in 
Page  8
accordance with Article IV of this Agreement; and
(d)
the executive director, accountant and procurement 
specialist referred to in paragraph 1 (d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
have been recruited, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.03.
The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine the date on which the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years 
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative  of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances, du Budget et du Plan
B.P. 324
Moroni
Comores
Telex:
245-MIEF-CAB KO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
Page  9
By /s/ Ahmed Djabir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
  1,100,000
100%
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
  2,200,000
100%
and supplies
(3)
Consultants' services,
  2,060,000
100%
training, studies and
audits
(4)
Operating costs
    370,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
    470,000
TOTAL
  6,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating 
costs  incurred under the Project on account of: (i) local contractual 
staff salaries, benefits and other incidental employment costs,  (ii) 
travel costs and allowances, (iii) insurance, operation and maintenance 
of vehicles and equipment, (iv) banking charges, and (v) office rent, 
Page  10
supplies and utilities, and communications charges.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
expenditures under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule, in respect of any of the Selected Health Facilities, 
unless, in respect of such Selected Health Facility:
(i)
a Board of Directors has been established, and 
individual directors appointed 
in accordance with 
procedures established pursuant to the Health Law;
(ii)
an adequate financial management system has been 
established and is 
operational;
(iii)
adequate incinerating facilities for waste disposal 
have been built on the 
premises and are 
operational; and
(iv)
draft bidding documents, acceptable to the 
Association, for the proposed 
rehabilitation of 
such Selected Health Facility have been prepared and 
submitted to the Association for review.
4.
It is understood that the percentages in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the provisions in 
Arrêté No. 238/MFB, of the laws of the Borrower, which exempt the goods 
and works to be financed from taxes and customs duties levied by the 
Borrower. If any change is made to said Arrêté which has the effect of 
levying taxes or customs duties on such goods or works, the percentages 
referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
goods, works and consultants' services (firms) under contracts not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under 
contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent, and operating costs, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce the rate of mortality 
arising from malaria and other common diseases, by ensuring better 
utilization of health facilities to deliver quality health care to the 
vast majority of the population, and by organizing mosquito control 
activities to reduce the incidence of malaria.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Page  11
Part A:
Rehabilitation and Equipment of Selected Health Facilities
Rehabilitation and equipping of selected health facilities in the 
three islands which form part of the Borrower’s territory.
Part B:
Malaria Control
1.
Provision of training, and acquisition of equipment and malaria 
control drugs, to facilitate diagnosis and treatment of malaria, and 
hence improve case management at all levels of health services.
2.
Carrying out of a program for indoor residual house spraying in 
areas where malaria and filariosis are highly transmittable and where 
reproduction of the vector takes place in a multitude of gites larvaires.
3.
Treatment of breeding areas of anophelines with larvivorous fish or 
larvicides, including construction or rehabilitation, as the case may be, 
and maintenance, of breeding basins, and supply of larva-eating fish to 
the breeding basins and, thereafter, to village cisterns.
4.
Acquisition of bednets to be distributed to health districts, and 
impregnated with insecticide and sold to households.
5.
Carrying out of IEC campaigns to increase community participation 
in the control of vector-borne diseases, including organization of 
malaria awareness days, integration of information sheets on malaria in 
the school curriculum, and distribution of pamphlets in villages.
6.
Rehabilitation of offices and laboratories, provision of technical 
advisory services and logistical support, and acquisition of equipment, 
to strengthen the institutional capacity of SLMTV.
Part C: 
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of training to MSPP and health facilities personnel in 
the delivery of quality health care, management and accounting, health 
economics and related topics.
2.
Carrying out of studies for the development of alternative 
mechanisms for health financing.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical support, 
and acquisition of equipment, to strengthen the institutional capacity of 
the central and regional directorates of MSPP, and PNAC.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  12
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
3.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more 
each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and civil 
works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Anti-malarial insecticides, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$900,000 equivalent,  may be procured from WHO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an amount not to exceed $70,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
Page  13
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits,
up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $75,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for implementation of health sector reform, management and 
supervision of the anti-malaria program, and general project support, up 
Page  14
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, or for the employment of financial 
auditors, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, financial auditors and other higher level personnel of PIU, 
including the executive director, the accountant and the procurement 
specialist, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only 
after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish a management committee, to be 
chaired by the Minister of Health, and consisting of the General 
Secretary, the two General Directors of MSPP, and the three Regional 
Health Directors, to provide policy guidance as needed on the Project, 
and to approve annual work programs and budgets, review progress, monitor 
performance indicators and propose corrective action as necessary.
(b) 
The General Secretary of MSPP shall be responsible for 
oversight of implementation of the Project and for coordination of its 
Page  15
activities. 
(c)
Subject to the overall guidance and oversight of the General 
Secretary of MSPP, PIU shall be responsible for supervision and 
coordination of the day-to-day management of the Project, including 
preparation of annual work plans and budgets, maintenance of a proper 
financial management and accounting system, and project accounts, 
management of the Special Account and Project Account, preparation of 
bidding documents and monitoring of overall procurement process, 
administration of civil works contracts in collaboration with DGTP, 
preparation of annual and quarterly progress reports, recruitment of 
auditors and delivery of timely audit reports, management of technical 
assistance activities, organization of annual and midterm reviews, 
preparation of project completion report, and collection of data on 
financing of the health sector.
(d)
The PIU shall continue to be headed by an executive director 
and shall consist, inter alia, of an accountant and a procurement 
specialist.
(e)
The Borrower shall ensure that the high level positions of 
PIU, including those of the executive director, accountant and 
procurement specialist, shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate 
officials, having qualifications, experience and terms of reference which 
shall have been communicated to, and deemed acceptable by, the 
Association.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and submit to the Association an implementation 
manual for the Project, acceptable to the Association, giving details of 
all procurement and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators, 
criteria for the selection of Selected Health Facilities, and other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements agreed upon 
with the Association for purposes of implementation and monitoring of the 
Project; and 
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if such 
amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance 
with performance indicators referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of this 
Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30 of each year, 
beginning November 30, 1998, undertake, in conjunction with the 
Association, a joint annual review of the Project or, in the case of the 
review to be undertaken not later than November 30, 2000, a midterm 
review, during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the 
Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement, or arising thereunder, 
and, in particular:
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower, having regard 
to indicators referred to 
in paragraphs 2 (a) and 3 (a) of 
this Schedule; 
(ii) 
a review of progress achieved in the execution of the 
Program;
(iii)
a review of the annual and quarterly progress reports 
for the current fiscal 
year, and the annual work plans 
Page  16
and budget for the forthcoming fiscal year; 
and
(iv)
in the case of the midterm review, an assessment of 
the impact of the Project, 
based on the results of a 
beneficiary assessment to be completed prior to the 
midterm 
review.
(c)
Not later than one month prior to each annual review, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress 
and status of the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the 
various matters to be discussed at such review.
(d)
Following each review, the Borrower undertakes to act 
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall, prior to the beginning of each fiscal 
year, submit to the Association, for review and approval, a proposed 
annual work program and budget for such fiscal year, giving details of 
proposed budgetary allocations and disbursement estimates, proposed 
procurement activities, and such other particulars as the Association may 
require.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review, 
(i) 
not later than two months after the end of each 
fiscal year or one month after 
the end of each quarter, as 
the case may be, annual and quarterly progress 
reports on the status of the Project and on the status of compliance with 
covenants under the Project; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of individual 
contracts under the Project.
5.
For the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, the 
Borrower shall take appropriate steps to ensure that civil works shall be 
undertaken, and insecticides procured and applied, with due regard to the 
need for protection of the environment and that, for procurement 
purposes, adequate safeguards shall be built-in to that effect, and 
reflected in the relevant procurement documents.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to KMF320,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Page  17
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
KMF160,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
Page  18
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
