Report No. PID4741
Project Name                     Comoros-Social Fund Project (@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social Sector
Project ID                       KMPE44824
Borrower                         Government of Comoros
Implementing Agency              Fonds d'Appui au Developpement
Communautaire (FADC)
Route Hadoudja, P.O. Box 1122
Moroni, Comoros
Date PID Prepared                February 10, 1997 (formerly Second Human
Resources Project)
Date PID Revised                 November 24, 1997
Project Appraisal                November 6, 1997
Project Board Date               April, 14, 1998
Country Background
1.      The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros is an archipelago
of three islands, inhabited by a largely homogenous Islamic
population of about 500,000 with a GNP per capita estimated at
US$460 in 1996. The economy is predominantly rural and highly
dependent on external assistance, averaging about US$118 per capita
per annum over 1989-93. Since independence in 1975, the country has
experienced considerable economic change. Following a period of
growth generated by externally-financed infrastructure projects,
real GDP growth slowed significantly from an annual average of 4.3w
in 1981-85 to 0.8w over 1991-95. The decline in economic
performance is a manifestation of the country's developmental
constraints, which include a narrow export base, weak institutional
capacity exacerbated by poor economic management, as well as an
unfavorable private sector environment.
2.      To address its macroeconomic imbalances and remove some of the
structural constraints to growth, the government launched an
adjustment program in 1991, which made considerable progress in
liberalizing imports, removing price controls, and improving the
environment for private sector activity, as well as reducing the
fiscal burden arising from the parastatal sector. Consequently,
after initial delays caused by an unsettled political climate in
which the fiscal situation deteriorated further, the implementation
of the program accelerated and was completed at end 1994. Domestic
savings improved from negative 3.7T of GDP in 1991 to 0t in 1993.
The budgetary deficit (before capital grants) fell from 13.1 of GDP
in 1991 to 7.4w in 1993, due to expenditure cuts through civil
service reduction. The external current account deficit (before
capital grants) was marginally reduced from 11.1w of GDP in 1991 to
10.5w in 1993, as imports declined in response to the reduced



aggregate demand pressure, exports began to recover, and tourism
receipts started to increase. The Comorian Franc was devalued by
33%- in foreign currency in January 1994, in concert with the 50%-
devaluation that took place in other CFA countries. The economy's
response to this devaluation was mixed, however, with a slow down of
economic activities registered in trade and agriculture sector,
which contributed to a real GDP decline averaging 2.3%- a year in
1994-95. Export performance for traditional commodities was poor,
in particular, because of the nearly 50%- drop in export prices for
vanilla in the world market.
3.      Economic reforms in Comoros have been complicated by the
parallel efforts at introducing political reforms. Recent
Presidential and legislative elections held in March 1996 and
December 1996 respectively represent major landmarks in the
country's political transition process. The new government has
recognized the need for the country to improve its economic
management and performance, which include measures to improve
budgetary revenues and cut expenditures, as well as create a more
conducive environment for private sector investment partially
through adoption of a comprehensive privatization program for the
public enterprises. However, due to the political turmoil and the
process of legislative elections which took place in December 1996,
concrete actions have yet to be taken. In consequence, the second
adjustment program to support these reforms which was to have been
prepared for 1996 has been delayed. The program would be taken up
once satisfactory budgetary performance has been established in
1997.
Sector Background
4.      Findings of a World Bank Poverty Assessment (FY95) indicate
that the majority of the Comorian population lives in relative
poverty or at near poverty levels. Consumption is very unevenly
distributed--the Gini coefficient is 76%-, as rural areas in all
three islands house the majority of the population (82%-) and of the
poor: the head count index for rural areas in Grande Comore,
Anjouan, and Moheli is 92%,76%-, and 85%- respectively while for the
country's urban areas it stands at 15%-. Very preliminary estimates
of the 1996 household expenditure survey show that 84%- of rural
households live in poverty compared to 15%- of urban households. It
is estimated that 75%- of the poor households work in agriculture.
Additional analysis confirms that poverty is higher in Anjouan and
Moheli, which together account for just under half of the country's
population. The poor households are characterized by lower levels
of literacy, although 67%- of heads of poor households can read
Comorian Arabic taught in "Koranic schools" at the community level,
but only 37%- have basic arithmetic skills. The survey revealed
another "at risk" category as 79%- of women have been unilaterally
divorced by their husbands and therefore constitute another
vulnerable group.
5.      The deteriorating socio-economic situation is even starting to
affect urban areas due to increasing unemployment, particularly
among the youth. Thirty-seven percent of youngsters between the
-2 -



ages of 20 and 24 are unemployed. The 1991 Census shows that up to
40t of the urban youth are currently unemployed.    In Anjouan, the
situation is even more troublesome.   About 60t of the youth is
unemployed due to high drop out rates from primary school. This is
one of the main reasons for the social unrest which Anjouan is
currently experiencing.
6.      As a counterbalance to the high incidence of poverty, the
Comorians have a very strong sense of community solidarity and,
therefore, extreme manifestations of poverty are rare. The great
majority of people have access to adequate food, clothing, shelter,
basic health care and water. Communities in the Comoros have
demonstrated their cohesiveness, dynamism, interest in the
development process, willingness to pay for services such as health
and education, and ability to manage effectively community
development concerns. As a result, the Government has taken a
sideline approach and does not directly intervene in community
development activities, thus empowering community members to
directly take on community development tasks.
Project Objectives
7.      The project's overall objective is poverty alleviation through
support for: (a) community development activities that will
directly involve poorer beneficiaries, mainly living in rural areas;
and (b) the creation of viable micro-enterprises that in some cases
would specifically target women.
Project Description
8.      The Social Fund Project will be implemented by FADC over a four
year period. FADC will: (a) rehabilitate/build communal
infrastructure; (ii) support income generating activities; (iii)
training of small scale entrepreneurs, individual engineering and
specialized consultants and NGOs; (iv) support communities to put in
place viable infrastructure maintenance schemes.
Project Financing
9.      The total project costs are estimated at US$13.6 million.    IDA
would finance US$11.5 million and beneficiaries would be expected to
contribute US$2.1 million. The Comorian Government intends to seek
other co-financiers for the FADC.
Project Implementation
10.     The Fonds d'Appui pour le Developpement Communautaire (FADC)
will implement the Social Fund Project. FADC is an independent
entity with a Board of Directors who oversees its activities and an
Executive Director who is responsible for its day-to-day management.
Local and international NGOs will work with the FADC for the
implementation of the micro-credit component and could also support
the FADC in creating awareness campaigns among community groups for
specific issues (maintenance of infrastructure, beneficiary
participation, etc.) Finally, the beneficiaries will also play a
- 3 -



key role in project implementation on the FADC side where they will
be required to provide cash or in-kind contributions for the
community infrastructure.
Project Sustainability
11.     The critical factor to ensure sustainability for the social
fund is to ensure maximum community involvement (cash or in-kind
contributions) at all stages of the cycle. It is clear that the
more involved the community feels about their project and/or
activity, the more compelled they will be to ensure proper operation
and maintenance since the community has made substantial cash or in-
kind outlays. In the case of the Comoros, communities are presently
required to provide between 10t and 20t of the cost of each sub-
project. Experience from the on-going project shows that community
ownership is high.
Lessons Learned from previous IDA Involvement
12.     The Bank is currently financing a Population and Human
Resources Project which is expected to close in 1998. Since the
project became effective in 1994, it has been rated satisfactory or
highly satisfactory both in terms of implementation progress and of
attainment of development objectives. The main lesson learned is
that interventions with the highest impact are those where funds are
channeled directly to the beneficiaries and where the central
administration has a limited involvement. To date FADC has
completed over 120 sub-projects which have had a positive impact on
Comoros' community groups.
Poverty Category
13.     The project is part of the program of targeted interventions
(PTI).
Environmental Aspects
14.     The project has been rated "C."
Program Objective Categories
15. The proposed project will contribute to poverty reduction.
Contact Point:           The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
- 4-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 5 -



