Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
W E COPYi
Report No. P-3747>PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN-
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 8, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differen-
tial between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and
currency equivalents in 1983 and as of January 20, 1984 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1983                 January 20, 1984
US$1               SI. 1,629                       S/. 2,352
SV. 1              US$0.0006                       US$0.0004
SI. 1,000          US$0.61                         US$0.43
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAP         -  Banco Agrario del Peru
(Peruvian Agricultural Bank)
bpd         -  barrels per day
EFF         -  Extended Fund Facility
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
INADE       -   Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Institute)
INFOR       -   Instituto Nacional Forestal
(National Forestry Institute)
INIPA       -  Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Promocion
Agropecuaria
(National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock
Research and Extension)
MA          -  Ministerio de Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
PEPP        -  Proyecto Especial Pichis Palcazu
(Project Execution Unit)
UNA         -  Universidad Nacional Agraria
(National Agrarian University)
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Peru
Amount:              US$40.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:         The objectives of this project--which would be carried
out in the central Peruvian jungle highlands east of Lima
--are to improve productivity, income and living condi-
tions for about 20,000 families, including 2,000 native
Indian families, in the area. Principal components of
the project would be: (i) provision of extension, credit
and other agricultural support services--including mar-
keting; (ii) improvement of about 427 km of rural roads
and provision of associated maintenance equipment; (iii)
provision of land titles; (iv) improvement of forestry
management; (v) assistance for native communities; and
(vi) support for project management, studies and techni-
cal assistance in various fields.
Special Risks:       The complexity of the project and the number of compon-
ents to be implemented pose the risk of delays in imple-
mentation. However, the executing agency has experience
in successfully carrying out a similar project and tech-
nical assistance would be provided to assist this unit
with project implementation. The project involves de-
velopment of an environmentally sensitive area encompass-
ing indigenous settlements, which raises the risk of ad-
verse environmental and social effects. Special care has
been taken with project design to protect against this.
In addition, the project's environmental and social im-
pact would be carefully monitored during execution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs *                                  Local     Foreign   Total
------ US$ million ------
(a)  Agricultural Credit                      10.6        5.7      16.3
(b)  Road Improvement and Maintenance          9.6        6.9      16.5
(c)  Other Agricultural Support                6.3        2.3       8.6
Actitivies
(d)  Land Titling                              3.2        0.4       3.5
(e)  Forestry Support                          3.1        0.6       3.7
(f)  Native Communities                        0.6        0.3       0.9
(g)  Project Management, Studies and           2.6        0.3       3.0
Technical Assistance
Base Cost                          36.0       16.5      52.5
Contingencies: Physical              2.0       1.4       3.4
Price               8.1        3.4      11.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            46.1       21.3      67.4
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                     -          0.1       0.1
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                      46.1       21.4      67.5
Financing Plan                                     Local     Foreign   Total
------ US$ million ------
World Bank                                    24.3       15.7      40.0
Government and Beneficiaries                  10.1        -        10.1
Peruvian Agricultural Bank                    11.7        5.7      17.4
TOTAL                                         46.1       21.4      67.5
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY                           1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
---------- US$ million -----------
Annual                            3.0    5.0    7.0    8.0    8.0    9.0
Cumulative                        3.0    8.0   15.0   23.0   31.0   40.0
*1 Includes US$7.6 million in taxes (see para. 58).



- iii -
Rate of Return:            The economic rate of return is estimated at 18.6
percent for those components of the project with
directly quantifiable benefits. These represent
87 percent of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4724-PE, dated March 6, 1984






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR THE
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$40.0 million to help finance
the Chanchamayo-Satipo Rural Development Project. The proposed loan would
have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard vari-
able interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the findings of that report,
on that of an economic mission to Peru in July/August 1982 and of follow-up
missions in February and September 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's popu-
lation; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes
(Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade among the three re-
gions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--par-
ticularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa, and substantial petroleum resources in the Selva and off-
shore, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another major
natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal waters, although
the catch is subject to sharp fluctuations. Only a small portion of Peru's
total land area is arable, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agri-
culture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is ex-
pected to remain the major energy source through the rest of this century.
After discovery of oil in the Selva, Peru's domestic oil production more than
doubled between 1977 and 1982 to over 195,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it
became a net exporter of about 62,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net
petroleum exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated
secondary recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of ra-
tional pricing policies to contain demand growth. Prices for domestically



-2-
consumed petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In
addition, new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to do-
mestic and foreign investors.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbaniz-
ation process and improved education. But with declining death rates, popu-
lation has continued to grow at about 2.5 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1981
to 17 million. Preliminary 1981 census information indicates that fertility
declined by 20 percent during the past decade and the current rate of popula-
tion growth has dropped to 2.2 percent p.a. The census also indicates that
the reduction in population growth is most marked among the 65 percent of the
population living in urban areas. The Government is quite population-
conscious and is now supporting a family planning program.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth. The pattern of asset
ownership in the economy changed drastically through nationalization of pro-
duction and distribution activities, and through a sweeping land reform.
However, many of the policies carried out after 1968 had an excessive cost,
and their implementation was inefficient. In particular, expansionary fiscal
and credit policies between 1968 and 1977 produced strong inflationary pres-
sures and expanded external borrowing, raising Peru's external debt to almost
US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness); about two-third's of
GDP. By mid-1978, the country was in the midst of a severe financial crisis;
inflation had accelerated to an annual rate of about 100 percent and the
banking system's net international reserves dropped to a negative level of
US$1 billion. Peru was no longer able to service its foreign obligations.
8.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by ar-
rangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program, and carried
out major debt-relief operations, postponing repayment of about US$1 billion
due in 1979/80 to the 1982-1986 period. The Government then adopted a com-
plementary Economic Recovery Program, which included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system, and
generally improve the efficiency of resource allocation in the private and
public sectors. These policy changes--together with a declining domestic
market because of the recession--resulted in a large increase in the value of
manufactured exports, from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81. The Government also drew up a public sector
investment program emphasizing projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. To support the program, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.



- 3 -
9.        The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.  The
overall public sector deficit was reduced from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to
1.7 percent in 1979, and the more careful management of public finances had a
positive impact on the balance of payments. At the same time, an increase in
petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of Peru's terms of trade gen-
erated a surplus in the current account of the balance of payments in 1979
and equilibrium in 1980. At year end 1980, the net reserve position had im-
proved to about US$1.3 billion. Growing incomes as a result of good external
sector performance and, in 1980, a reacceleration of public sector expendi-
tures, resulted in renewed growth of GDP, at an average rate of 3.9 percent
in 1979-1980. However, the public sector deficit increased again to six per-
cent of GDP in 1980, and inflation exceeded 60 percent.
10.       After a new constitution was written by a popularly elected
constituent assembly, elections were held in May 1980, and the winner, Presi-
dent Fernando Belaunde, was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government
faced a challenging situation with severe structural weaknesses which had
been only temporarily attenuated by the improvements in the terms of trade
and the resumption of growth. The new Government was committed to structural
transformation based on opening up the economy; encouragement of private
sector initiative and reduced public sector participation in economic activ-
ities; and improved efficiency in the remaining public sector activities.
Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in particular, distin-
guish the present Government's philosophy and economic program from that of
its immediate predecessors.
11.       The Government was successful in accelerating import liberalization
by eliminating non-tariff barriers and lowering tariffs, and in streamlining
export incentives. At the same time, new legislation was enacted for the
agricultural, mining and petroleum sectors, offering greater incentives to
investors. Substantial changes were made in the financial sector, through
upward adjustments of the interest rate, and reduction of legal reserve re-
quirements. The Government also made progress in correcting major price dis-
tortions by reducing food subsidies, eliminating some price controls and ad-
justing periodically public utility and petroleum product prices. Finally,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financ-
ing--an effort that was supported by a Bank-sponsored Consultative Group
meeting in May 1981--and initiated actions to strengthen public sector
institutions.
Recent Developments and Outlook
12.       Unfortunately, the 1981-83 world recession made Peru's adjustment
difficult. In 1981, the first full year of the new Government, the world
demand for Peru's main exports declined, interest rates on the country's ex-
ternal debt increased to an all-time high, and the terms of trade fell by 10
percent as a result of lower export prices. The overall negative impact of
these external events on Peru's balance of payments was estimated at US$740
million. A substantial recovery of agricultural output (with a growth rate
of almost 12 percent) and an even faster growth of construction (mostly
public) allowed GDP growth of near four percent. However, industrial output



-4-
stagnated, mining fell by four percent, the public sector deficit increased
to about eight percent of GDP and the current account of the balance of
payments closed with a deficit of US$1.7 billion.
13.       By 1982, economic activity was slowing down, world commodity prices
continued to fall, and the public sector deficit had also increased. The
Government adopted an austerity program designed to reduce the public sector
deficit and regain external equilibrium. Peru's mini-devaluations were ac-
celerated and exceeded domestic inflation by a wide margin, thus restoring
part of the competitiveness lost in previous years. In June 1982, the IMF
approved an SDR 850 million compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support
Peru's stabilization and structural adjustment efforts. The current account
deficit in the balance of payments was reduced slightly (to US$1.6 billion)
in 1982, in spite of lower export prices, but GDP growth slowed to less than
one percent, industrial output fell more than two percent, the public sector
deficit rose to 8.8 percent of GDP, and inflation continued at more than 70
percent.
14.       The still sizeable public sector and current account deficits,
combined with the reduced availability of external loans from international
commercial banks, encouraged the Government to try to accelerate the adjust-
ment process in 1983. The new measures included a large cut in public in-
vestment, acceleration of price adjustments of publicly supplied goods and
services, and faster reduction of food subsidies. Also, the Government
followed a restrictive monetary policy, and mini-devaluations from January to
August 1983 again exceeded domestic inflation.
15.       Peru's economic difficulties, however, were compounded by natural
disasters suffered during the first half of 1983. Heavy rains flooded the
northern part of the country; there was also a severe drought in the south,
massive landslides in the central area, and a reduction in the fish catch.
Most of these were linked to a change in El Nino, a current in the Pacific
Ocean off the Peruvian coast, which also affected weather in other parts of
the world. These disasters were costly; replacing the damaged infrastructure
may require over US$500 million (about 40 percent of the 1983 public invest-
ment budget). Output losses were also substantial. Agricultural production
was particularly hard hit in the north of Peru where cotton crops were de-
stroyed. Flooding of the Talara oil fields and damage to the trans-Andean
pipeline caused a 4.6 percent drop in oil production (to an average of
186,000 bpd), and an eight percent fall in petroleum exports.
16.       The combined impact of the natural disasters, low commodity prices,
limited access to external borrowing and the high debt burden produced a
severe economic recession in 1983; GDP fell by about 10 percent, with all
sectors showing a decline in output. At the same time, inflation accelerated
to 125 percent, partly because of the natural disasters but also because of
inflationary expectations fueled by the minidevaluations. The current
account deficit in the balance of payments was reduced, to about US$1 bil-
lion, but only because of much lower imports. Financing of even this reduced
deficit required a renegotiation of the commercial bank debt (in March 1983)
and of the debt to Paris Club member countries (in July 1983). The commer-
cial bank debt was rescheduled in the context of a "jumbo" loan that also
provided for US$450 million of fresh money. Public sector revenues also



- 5 -
declined substantially in 1983 because of the recession, and the public
sector deficit far exceeded the Government's programmed target. In August,
as the inflation rate accelerated, the Government revised its pricing and
foreign exchange policies. It began to preannounce the exchange rate a few
months in advance, and greatly reduced the rate of increase of most con-
trolled prices. While this halved the inflation rate for the final three
months, it appreciated the sol and led to some major price distortions.
17.       By the end of 1983, it was clear to the Government that its EFF
program could not be placed on track, so it negotiated with the IMF an 18-
month standby to replace the final period of the EFF. The IMF Board will
likely consider the new standby in April 1984. As part of its new program,
the Government has already raised a key interest rate for depositors to real
positive levels, raised electricity and other utility rates in real terms and
undertaken a severely restrictive monetary program. On the strength of the
negotiated standby, Peru's commercial creditor banks agreed to a rescheduling
of US$1.5 billion amortization due them between January 1984 and July 1985.
There of course, remains a continuing need for official development assis-
tance, including local cost financing. Peru's economic recovery will depend
greatly on recovery in the developed countries--the chief market for its im-
portant mineral exports and newer manufactured exports. Nevertheless, good
domestic policies can also assist this recovery. Provided the Government
maintains its new program, the country is expected to resume economic growth
after 1984, achieving a medium-term growth of about four-five percent per
year and a manageable balance of payments situation thereafter, and Peru will
remain creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
18.       The Bank has approved 55 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,522.3 million, net of cancellations. About 24 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 24
percent for agriculture, 22 percent for the energy sector, 12 percent for
mining and industry, about nine percent for education, health and urban de-
velopment, eight percent for a program loan in support of the Economy Recov-
ery Program in 1979, and one percent for a technical assistance operation.
19.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their dis-
bursement status as of September 30, 1983. As of this date, US$790.5 million
was undisbursed. Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the
late 1970s, primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a short-
age of counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during
this period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by
the Bank and Government to correct the situation by: inter alia, (i) opening
a Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and re-
solve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit. Disburse-
ments on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5 million in
FY81, US$75.8 million in FY82 and US$85.7 million in FY83. This compares
with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.



-6-
20.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in:
(i) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors, i.e., petroleum,
agriculture and mining; (ii) the strengthening, through technical assistance
loans and regular operations, of public sector management, including more ef-
fective economic policies; (iii) the creation of the physical infrastructure
needed to sustain and foster economic development; and (iv) the improvement
of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending
concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More
recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields-
--petroleum, agriculture, mining, and industry--to help Peru to strengthen
its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has also grown and will
be stepped up further in the future. In addition, Peru has been approved as
eligible for the Bank's Special Action Program (SAP) and seven projects are
receiving support under that program. The next operation that would be ready
for the Executive Directors' consideration is in urban development. As part
of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a Consultative Group Meeting
for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government arrange financing for its
public investment program.
21.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.5 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1982, and ab-
sorbed about 3 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1982. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about ten percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.
22.       IFC commitments as of September 30, 1983 were US$40.8 million (in-
cluding US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone
Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.5 million is held by the Corporation.
A summary statement of IFC investments as of September 30, 1983 is presented
in Annex II.
23.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Internation-
al Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31, 1982 were
US$1.0 billion and US$378.4 million, respectively, and their shares of public
debt service as of end-1981 were estimated at 0.8 percent and 0.7 percent,
respectively. In its future operations, IDB is expected to emphasize lending
for agriculture, industry, energy, mining, roads, and small-scale irriga-
tion. USAID is expected to stress rural and urban development and health.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Land and Water Resources
24.       Peru has a limited natural resource base for agriculture.  Of the
country's total land area of 1,285,000 km2, only about 3.7 million ha or 2.9
percent is arable and another 17 percent is natural pastureland. Additional
land could be brought into production, either by expensive new coastal



-7-
irrigation schemes or by providing basic infrastructure for more remote
areas, mainly in the Ceja de Selva, the jungle highlands in the Amazon region
east of the Andes. The proposed project would be located in this area.
25.       Of the country's three principal regions, the 130,000 kma Costa,
which consists mainly of desert terrain, is the major agricultural area.
Agriculture in the Costa is limited to river valleys, and most of Peru's one
million irrigated hectares are located in this zone. Most irrigat:ion and
drainage systems, however, are old and inefficient, and the Bank is currently
financing two irrigation rehabilitation projects designed to help deal with
this problem (Loans 1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1979). Where water is
available, conditions are generally favorable for crop production lbecause of
good soils and near optimal solar radiation and temperatures. As a result,
productivity and farm incomes in this region are relatively high. The Costa
produces over 40 percent of the country's crops, including the major export
crops--sugar and cotton--as well as rice, maize, potatoes, citrus zrops,
olives and grapes.
26.       The Sierra consists of rugged mountains and high valleys.  Of the
zone's 335,000 km2 about seven percent are farmed and 43 percent are used for
grazing. The Sierra has about half the arable crop land in Peru, but--be-
cause of the difficult topography, the severe climate and generally primitive
farming techniques--productivity is low and there is little scope for putting
new land into production. Most agricultural production is for subsistence,
and there is little use of fertilizers or other inputs. There is a poten-
tial, however, for improving crop and livestock productivity through re-
search, extension and the increased use of production inputs. The Bank is
assisting this effort through the Agricultural Research and Extension Loan
(Loan 2150-PE of 1982) and, in the Juliaca area of southern Peru, through the
Puno Rural Development Project (Loan 1812-PE of 1980).
27.       The sparsely settled Selva east of the Andes accounts for 64 per-
cent of Peru's total land area (about 81 million ha). The region comprises
two quite different sub-zones: the Ceja de Selva--the highlands cn the
eastern slopes of the Andes; and the Selva Baja--the jungle area a,round the
Amazon and its tributaries. Most of the soils in the Selva Baja aLre classi-
fied as marginal and are suitable only for grazing and forestry. However,
soils in the Ceja de Selva are of better quality and can be used for crop-
ping. Arable land in this zone is estimated at 4.5 million ha, of which
600,000 ha are currently being exploited. Fruits, coffee and tea are the
main crops, although there is good potential for livestock, rice and oil palm
in some areas. Development has been hampered, however, by poor transport and
other infrastructure. The Government has given priority to development pro-
jects in this area, since they constitute some of the best prospects for ex-
panding Peru's agricultural frontier (paras. 33-36). The Bank is assisting
this effort with the Alto Mayo Rural Development Loan (Loan 2219-PE of 1982.)
Agricultural Sector Performance and Government Policies
28.       The agricultural sector in Peru underwent a major decline during
the 1970s. In part, this was due to a serious drought from 1978-80, but the
sector's poor performance was brought about primarily by adverse Government



- 8 -
policies. These included: (i) an agricultural pricing policy which did not
provide adequate incentives to producers; (ii) imposition of an inefficient
State-run marketing system; (iii) failure to effectively organize and manage
agrarian reform enterprises; (iv) insufficient credit and the dismantling of
the extension and research support services for the sector; (v) a requirement
that food crops be grown in place of non-food export crops, primarily cotton,
for which Peru enjoys a comparative advantage; (vi) the concentration of
public investment in large-scale coastal irrigation projects with very long
gestation periods; (vii) insecurity of land tenure owing to a far-reaching
land reform; and (viii) failure to support agricultural sector educational
and training institutions, so as to insure that they had the teaching staffs
and equipment necessary to produce an adequate supply of well-trained profes-
sionals.
29.       In 1982, agriculture contributed about 9 percent to Peru's GDP and
employed about 40 percent of the labor force, as compared with 17 and 48 per-
cent, respectively, in 1970. The value of food production in constant prices
increased by an average of 0.7 percent per annum during this period. The
value of crop production actually declined at an average annual rate of -0.6
percent in the 1970s, while livestock production increased at 3.3 percent,
largely because of the rapid growth of the poultry industry. During the same
period, population grew at an average of 2.5 percent per annum. As a result,
nutritional standards suffered, and the country's dependence on imported
foodstuffs increased.
30.      The volume of food imports--consisting mainly of wheat, rice and
other grains, dairy products and vegetable oils--increased by a total of over
20 percent between the early 1970s and 1980. At the same time, agriculture's
contribution to exports--which came mainly from sugar, cotton and coffee--
fell dramatically. By 1980, the volume of major agricultural exports stood
at only about 22 percent of the 1970 level. In spite of these trends, Peru
continued to maintain a positive though shrinking balance of trade in agri-
culture through the 1970s. The deficit in 1981, however, amounted to about
US$230 million.
31.       By the late 1970s, the military Government had recognized the grav-
ity of the problems facing the agricultural sector and the potential long-
term economic and social impact of its decline. It began, therefore, intro-
ducing measures to reverse this trend. Consumer price subsidies on most pro-
ducts were reduced or eliminated so as to make higher farmgate prices possi-
ble, the requirement that food crops be grown was eased, and the rebuilding
of agricultural service agencies began. The Belaunde Government has acceler-
ated this effort. It has eliminated remaining consumer subsidies except for
a subsidy on rice which is now being phased out. An agricultural promotion
law was passed in 1980, which: (i) concludes the agrarian reform expropria-
tion process; (ii) permits some mortgaging of agricultural land to facilitate
increased commercial credit; (iii) provides selected tax incentives to in-
vestment; (iv) permits the private import and export of most agricultural
products and inputs; and (v) opens up marketing to private participation.
Finally, the Government has reorganized and strengthened sectoral institu-
tions to improve the provision of services and the execution of projects.



The Bank is actively assisting in this effort and has recently made loans to
support improvements in agricultural research and extension activities
(para. 26) and to help the National Agrarian University (Loan 2208-PE of
1982).
32.       These policy improvements, together with better weather conditions,
have had a significant beneficial impact on agricultural production between
1980 and 1982. During this time, agricultural output grew by over 14 per-
cent, with production increases in rice, corn and potatoes. However, there
is a limit to how much can be achieved through improving productivity in the
traditional agricultural areas in the Costa and the Sierra. Because of this,
Peru's agricultural frontier needs to be expanded.
Rural Development in the Ceja de Selva
33.       Because it is one of the few areas with good, arable land which is
relatively unexploited, developing the Ceja de Selva is one of Peru's highest
priorities. Spontaneous development of high-potential parts of this area has
already begun as settlers have moved from the less productive areas in the
Costa and Sierra. The problem is that this development has, in the past,
been generally uncoordinated and is placing increasing pressure on the local
environment. The Government is promoting the controlled growth of the area
by supporting about ten rural development projects, four of which are already
underway. These projects were previously under the Prime Minister's Office
and have now been placed under the recently-formed National Development
Institute (INADE), a cabinet-level agency. The total cost of this program is
estimated at over $500 million and funding is being provided from a number of
sources including IDB, USAID, the Governments of Spain, Canada, Belgium,
Switzerland and Germany. These rural development efforts are concentrated in
two areas: the Mayo Valley in northern Peru and the Selva Central, east of
Lima.
34.       The Mayo Valley, which has an area of about 770,000 ha, is about
800 km north of Lima and is being developed rapidly by settlers from the
Costa and the Sierra. The areas's population has now reached about 70000
and production comes mainly from small-scale farmers. This region is seen as
having good potential for production of rice, fruits, tea, beef and oil palm,
some of which may be exported. Part of the area--around the lower reaches of
the Huallaga Valley--is currently being developed with financial assistance
from USAID. In addition, the upper Mayo area is being developed with finan-
cial support of the World Bank (para. 27) and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development.
35.       Development of the Selva Central is important because it is rela-
tively close to Lima and its climate, soils and topography allow it to be
used for a range of agricultural purposes. The area already produces over 25
percent of Peru's output of coffee, oranges, bananas and avocados. The long-
range development plan for the Selva Central envisages a large expansion in
this production.  The development would involve six major valleys which ulti-
mately would open over 3 million hectares of agricultural land to produc-
tion.  As a first step, USAID is assisting the Government with the execution
of a rural development project in the Palcazu Valley. More recently, a



- 10 -
similar project has gotten underway in the Pichis Valley with IDB financing.
The project unit in INADE which is responsible for this effort--the Pichis-
Palcazu office (PEPP)--has prepared the proposed Chanchamayo-Satipo project.
36.       Development of the Ceja de Selva is also being supported through a
series of projects designed to improve transportation links with the rest of
the country. The first of these operations was the Bank-financed Lima-Amazon
all-weather road connecting the Sierra with the Selva. Linked with this, the
Government is gradually constructing the "Marginal de la Selva", which would
be an all-weather road running from the north to the south of the Selva on
the eastern slopes of the Andes. The Bank is supporting the improvement of
some priority sections of the Marginal de la Selva under its Eighth Highway
Project (Loan 2091-PE of 1982). IDB is also helping to improve road access
to the Selva under a recent highway project. Finally, the Bank-financed
Aviation Development Project (Loan 1963-PE of 1981) is supporting the
improvement of four airports at important regional centers in the Selva.
Institutional Framework
37.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is generally responsible for
formulating the Government's sectoral policies and programs. The National
Institute for Development (INADE) has responsibility for preparing and
carrying our rural development projects in the Selva (para. 33). Under a
1981 reorganization, the task of carrying out public sector agricultural and
rural development programs was made the responsibility of: (i) four adminis-
tratively autonomous institutes under the MA--including the National Insti-
tute for Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extension (INIPA) and the
National Forestry Institute (INFOR); (ii) a number of independent project
authorities which administer major irrigation projects; (iii) regional devel-
opment corporations which are responsible for small-scale local projects; and
(iv) special project units under INADE like PEPP. In addition, the Govern-
ment has acted to improve training programs through the National Agrarian
University (UNA). The Bank is assisting in this effort through the Higher
Agricultural Education Project (Loan 2208-PE of 1982).
38.       Specialized services to the sector are provided by a public market-
ing company and the Agrarian Bank of Peru (BAP), which is the main source of
agricultural credit. Until recently, the marketing company had a monopoly on
marketing rice, cotton and fertilizers and on importing grains and powdered
milk. These monopoly operations are being phased out although the Government
will retain a presence in marketing as a check on private traders. This will
be done through PROCOMPRA, a recently-formed marketing program under the Min-
istry of Agriculture. BAP is a Government-owned institution with branches in
all parts of the country. It provides about 93 percent of the institutional
credit to the agriculture sector with the balance coming mostly from commer-
cial banks and State development banks. In 1982, BAP's loan portfolio was
about US$300 million, but this represented only 67 percent of the 1976 port-
folio in real terms and was not sufficient to meet the sector's needs.
Between 80 and 90 percent of BAP annual lending is short-term production
credit, and--in 1982--45 percent of its new loans went to cooperatives, 46
percent to farmers with more than 20 ha and nine percent to small farmers.



- 11 -
39.       In the past, BAP only reached a relatively small number of farmers
and the growth of its lending program was modest--3.4 percent per year in
real terms over the past five years. The fundamental problem has been BAP's
interest rates which were substantially below the rate of inflation. The
Government had to cover the resultant decapitalization of BAP with scarce
budget resources, which severely limited the growth of BAP's operations.
Until 1983, the average effective rate for all BAP's loans was 45 percent,
compared with a 73 percent rate of inflation in both 1981 and 1982. In order
to correct this situation and to lay the foundation for an expansion of its
credit program to meet the needs of the sector, BAP--in April, 1983--put into
effect a new interest rate system which substantially raised interest: rates
for most farmers. Under this new system, rates averaged 67 percent for
commercial farmers with over 20 ha with lower rates for smaller farmers. The
Bank is supporting an expansion in BAP's lending and regular adjustment of
interest rates under its Sixth Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 2302--PE of
1983). Under that project, BAP is required to adjust its interest rates in
line with changes in commercial rates and use its best efforts to move toward
real positive rates. For this purpose, BAP adjusted interest rates in
October 1983 raising average effective rates from 67 percent to 86 percent.
Although inflation for all of 1983 reached 125 percent there was a downturn
in the final quarter, when inflation occured at an annualized rate of 73
percent. BAP's rates for that quarter were thus positive in real terms. The
Bank continues to monitor rate adjustments in the context of the Sixt:h Agri-
cultural Credit Project.
Sectoral Investment Strategy
40.       The Government's sectoral investment strategy, as reflected in its
1981-1985 public investment program, is: (i) to continue development: and re-
habilitation of irrigated coastal areas where there is a large sunk invest-
ment in deteriorated, inefficient irrigation infrastructure; (ii) to develop
the potentially rich Ceja de Selva; and (iii) to assist the rural poor, par-
ticularly in the Sierra, through rural development projects. The Government
is also committed to building up its agricultural credit and research and ex-
tension programs to provide better support to the agriculture sector.
Previous Bank Operations
41.       In order to help spur Peru's agricultural development, the Bank has
made 15 loans to Peru totalling US$379.0 million. Five of them, in the 1954-
1973 period and totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit and
were channelled through BAP (Lns. 105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and
933-PE). In general, BAP's performance in executing these operations has
been good. The Performance Audit Report (Sec M81-465 of June 2, 1981) for
the fifth project (Ln.933-PE of 1973) concluded that the project's rate of
return exceeded that estimated in the appraisal report (30 percent vs 26 per-
cent). It noted, however, that the Bank failed to use the loan as an effec-
tive instrument in credit policy issue discussions (e.g., interest rate
levels) with the Government. Processing of a further loan was held in abey-
ance until early 1983 when a mutually satisfactory agreement on interest
rates was reached and the Bank made a loan for the Sixth Agricultural Credit



- 12 -
Project (para. 39). Also, the fifth project suffered from the deterioration
of the research and extension services in the 1970s. The research and exten-
sion project (Ln. 2150-PE of 1982) will help finance the rebuilding of these
services.
42.       Two loans (67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE of 1954), totalling US$3
million, were for farm machinery imports. Another two (Loans 114-PE of 1955
and 418-PE of 1965), totalling US$24.4 million, financed irrigation works and
land settlement in the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basin. The
Performance Audit Report (Sec M78-43 of January 18, 1978) for the San Lorenzo
project financed by Loan 418-PE concluded that the project achieved its basic
goals of increasing agricultural production and the incomes of the rural
poor. The audit noted, however, the need for provision of better maintenance
of works, of a strong project unit, and agricultural support programs for
irrigation projects. These findings were taken into account in the design of
the two most recent Bank-financed irrigation rehabilitation operations: the
first irrigation rehabilitation project and the Lower Piura project (Loans
1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1979 for US$25 and US$56 million, respec-
tively). They have also been taken into account in the design of the Bank's
rural development operations. In 1980 the Bank approved its first rural
development loan, a US$15 million operation for the Puno zone in the Sierra
(para. 26). This was followed, in 1982, by a US$30 million loan for the Alto
Mayo area in the Ceja de Selva (para. 27).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       This would be the second Bank-financed rural development project in
the Ceja de Selva. The project was prepared by PEPP in conjunction with rep-
resentatives of the various regional agencies expected to participate in the
project. A feasibility study of the proposed project was completed in early
1983 with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD cooperative program. The Bank help-
ed finance this preparation work with funds provided under the Eighth Highway
Project (para. 36). A Bank mission visited Peru to appraise the project in
May 1983. The appraisal mission's report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report,
Chanchamayo-Satipo Rural Development Project" (No. 4724-PE, dated March 6,
1984) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III
contains a Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations were held in
Washington from February 1 to February 3, 1984 and the Peruvian Delegation
was headed by Mr. Reategui, of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce.
The Project Area
44.       The project area consists of 730,000 ha in the Selva Central (see
map IBRD 17482 attached).   The area to be developed lies in  valleys ranging
from 500-3,000 meters above sea level in the eastern foothills of the Andes.
It consists of about 400,000 ha of largely settled land surrounded by about
330,000 ha of thinly populated steep slopes on the north, east and south
which the Government has proposed to set aside in three reserves for forest
protection and production. The three main towns in the region are San Ramon,
La Merced and Satipo, and have a combined population of about 25,000 people.



- 13 -
The population of the project area amounts to about 160,000--nearly 80
percent of which is rural--and has grown rapidly during the seventies as
transportation links have been established and spontaneous migration has
accelerated. Development, however, has proceeded in an uncoordinated manner,
and this migration is placing increased pressure on local resources. lJnless
future growth is more carefully managed, especially the forestry resources in
these valleys, which are needed to protect the slopes from erosion, agricul-
tural production is in danger of declining. For this reason, the proposed
project comes at a critical time for the development of this area.
45.       About one-quarter of the project area is relatively good land
especially suitable for perennial crops, while the remainder is forest which
needs to be protected to prevent erosion. The climate is tropical and there
is abundant annual rainfall (1,800 to over 3,000 mm). The main crop produced
in the area is coffee, but the annual production of this valuable crop has
declined to about 12,000 tons per year, about half prior levels, because of
crop damage--a result of leaf rust--and poor growing practices. In addition,
about 10,000 tons of citrus fruit, papaya, avocado, pineapple, bananas and
some subsistence crops are grown; the bulk of these are sold in the Lima
market. Average farm size is less than 19 ha and average income in the area
is about US$300 per capita; about 65 percent of the settlers have incomes
below the absolute poverty level. There are 89 communities of native In-
dians, mostly from the Campa tribe, living in the area. These communities
comprise about 2,000 families with an average land holding of about 14 hec-
tares. (An additional 37 communities on the periphery of the area will be
titled under the project.) The project has been designed to ensure that the
Indian communities benefit from the development of the area through direct
participation in the project components, while still preserving their cultur-
al identity.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The objectives of the project are to improve incomes and living
conditions for about 20,000 rural families in the project area by expanding
local agricultural and forestry production and improving the region's infra-
structure base. Some 5,500 farming families--including over 500 Indian fam-
ilies--would participate directly in the agricultural development components
of the project. All families would benefit from the infrastructure improve-
ments in the area. The project would coordinate area development carefully
so that: (i) the physical environment--especially forestry resources--would
be protected; and (ii) local native communities would be incorporated into
area development.
47.       The project would consist of:
(a) an agricultural credit program for the farmers in the area;
(b) construction and improvement of access roads and support for
establishment of a road maintenance program;
(c) provision of complementary production support activities, in-
cluding agricultural research and extension services and mar-
keting facilities;



- 14 -
(d) strengthening forestry management and conservation;
(e) land titling;
(f) improvement of living conditions in the native communities;
and
(g) support for project management as well as studies and
technical assistance.
48.       Agricultural credit would account for 31 percent of project costs.
Under this component medium- and long-term credit of about $17.8 million
equivalent would be provided to finance land clearing, purchase of farm
tools, equipment and draft animals which would be used to increase
agricultural production. In addition, about $2.8 million equivalent of
short-term credit would be provided to help farmers purchase seeds,
fertilizers and chemicals, rent needed machinery, hire labor and pay for
transport to markets. BAP would finance the credit component from available
resources; it would lend at its normal terms as adjusted from time to time in
consultation with the Bank under the terms of the Sixth Agricultural Credit
Project (para. 39). BAP has a regional office in La Merced, two other local
offices in the project area and is opening two further offices. BAP would
enter into a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with INADE as a condition of
loan effectiveness which would specify, inter alia: (i) the terms and
procedures under which the credit would be made available; and (ii) the
estimated amount of lending to be provided (Sections 3.02 and 6.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
49.       The access road component would also represent 31 percent of total
costs. Using contractors, PEPP would upgrade about 427 km of existing roads
wzhich are currently little more than dirt tracks. All roads would be upgrad-
ed to an all-weather standard in order to provide year-round access to the
main towns in the area, the principal farm communities and the main produc-
tion areas. The project also includes engineering services for final design
and supervision of construction of these roads. Detailed engineering for the
first year road works has been completed and was financed under Loan 2091-PE
(para. 36). Civil works under this component would also include construction
of a 90 meter bridge across the Perene River in order to open up access to an
underdeveloped area on its eastern bank.
50.       Satisfactory maintenance of these roads is important and, there-
fore, the Government would agree to ensure that roads in the project area
would be maintained and repaired. This maintenance would be the responsibil-
ity of the local government authorities--with initial help from a maintenance
support unit (see below). To assure this, agreements would be signed by
local authorities committing them to maintain roads under their responsibil-
ity (Section 4.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The road maintenance unit
would be established and initially operate under PEPP. The project would



- 15 -
also assist this effort through provision for: (i) purchase of road
maintenance tools and equipment; (ii) construction and outfitting of two
small equipment repair shops; and (iii) technical assistance and training for
road maintenance staff. Road maintenance would ultimately be the full
responsibility of a local authority. To do this, PEPP would present to the
Bank for comment, by March 31, 1988, a program to transfer the maintenance
support unit to an appropriate local authority, and this transfer would then
be carried out by March 31, 1989 (Section 4.03(c)(v) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In addition, from 1985 onwards, the maintenance support unit's
annual program and budget for the forthcoming year would be presented to the
Bank for comment (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Other production support activities included in the project would
represent 16 percent of total costs. The most important of these, represent-
ing 12 percent of total costs, would strengthen agricultural research and ex-
tension services in the area. More specifically, it would provide for cons-
truction and improvement of two local offices for INIPA at San Ramon and
Satipo and three additional facilities needed to support extension work in
the area. The project would also provide support for equipping and staffing
these facilities, vehicles and housing for INIPA staff and in-service and ex-
ternal training programs. The design of this extension component follows the
lines of the training and visit system of extension being supported in other
regions of Peru under the Bank-financed Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (para. 26). Agricultural research activities in the area would also
be supported through the improvement and equipping of a research station
operated by UNA (para. 37). UNA would carry out studies on improving produc-
tion as well as strengthening control of crop diseases and pests in the
area. The project includes both UNA's and INIPA's incremental operational
costs, including training. In order to ensure satisfactory execution of this
component, INADE would as a condition of loan effectiveness, sign agreements
with INIPA and UNA specifying their responsibilities under this component.
These agreements would be satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.03(a)(i) and
6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       In addition, production would be assisted through improvements to
marketing activities. These would represent four percent of project costs.
UJnder this subcomponent, two rural grading and packing centers would be es-
tablished in La Merced and Satipo. Each of them would have a capacity for
processing about 14,000 tons per year of local fruits which would then be
sold in the Lima market. The Executive Directorate would arrange for cons-
truction of the centers either through PROCOMPRA (para. 38) or directly. If
the centers are constructed directly, the producers' associations would
finance them through loans from a Peruvian development bank. The centers
would be owned and managed by these local producer associations when com-
pleted (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Assistance for these
associations in marketing would be financed under the project.
53.       The forestry component would represent seven percent of total costs
and would be aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of forest management
and conservation efforts in the area. This is important because many of the
forest areas are needed to protect the area from erosion and landslides and
the remaining forestry resources can be a valuable crop if developed in a
manner which ensures regular renewal of the timber. In order to do this, the



- 16 -
project would establish nurseries--to grow new trees for replanting in the
area--and provide for construction, equipping and incremental staffing of a
local office for the National Forestry Agency (INFOR) as well as six forestry
police control points. INFOR would expand its ongoing forestry research and
reforestation program through expansion of staff and setting up an extension
service which would operate in the area. INFOR is a semi-autonomous agency
with extensive experience in this type of activity in other parts of the
country. INFOR would enter into an agreement with INADE as condition of loan
effectiveness detailing its responsibility under this component. This
agreement would be satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.03(a)(ii) and 6.01(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The component also includes the purchase of
the necessary vehicles to help with forestry control and funds for a public
awareness program aimed at educating the local population on the need to
protect forestry resources. Finally, under this component the MA's forestry
department would, carry out an inventory of forestry resources in the project
area, identifying production and protection zones, and, by December 31, 1985
prepare a management plan for the protection zones. Until it is completed,
no further logging concessions would be provided in these zones. For areas
designated as suitable for production, management plans developed by prospec-
tive concession holders would have to be approved by the MA before logging
could begin (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The land titling component--also representing seven percent of
total costs--would support a program designed to provide titles to almost all
settlers in the project area, including the native Indian communities that do
not yet have title. This is important if settlers are to have the security
to use long-term credit to improve the productivity of their holdings. Under
this component, the project would provide additional staff as well as vehi-
cles and equipment so this work could be carried out. At the same time, the
component would also support a land titling program designed to help about 37
native communities on the periphery of the project area. This is needed if
these communities are to have their holdings protected in advance of coloni-
zation which can put pressure on their areas.
55.       Support for the native communities would be provided under all the
previous components and a special effort would be made under the land tit-
ling, agricultural extension and credit and forestry components to make sure
that priority was given to these communities. In addition, the project would
include some programs, amounting to two percent of total costs, designed to
help improve living standards in these communities. These would improve the
quality of their water supply, assist in self-help construction--particularly
schools--and assist with promotion of small-scale industrial activities.
56.       Finally, the project would include support for project management
which would represent six percent of total costs. It would include assist-
ance for PEPP's local office in San Ramon through construction and equipping
of offices, housing and dormitories for staff. It also includes vehicles,
contracting of additional staff and incremental operating and maintenance
costs.
57.       Technical assistance provided under the project would cover engi-
neering services as well as about 32 staff months of expatriate support and
20 staff months of local consultant support. The average monthly cost of



- 17 -
consultants, including travel and subsistence, is estimated to be about
US$10,000 for foreign experts and US$2,000 for local experts. All consultants
financed under the loan would have qualifications acceptable to the Bank and
would be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       Total project cost is estimated at US$67.5 million.  This includes
US$7.6 million in indirect taxes (such as the sales and gasoline taxes).
Investments in this area are, by law, exempt from stamp and income taxes.
Provision will also be made for exemption from duties on equipment imported
under the project. The foreign exchange component of the project is esti-
mated at US$21.4 million or about 32 percent of total project costs. A total
of US$3.4 million has been included for physical contingencies, reflecting an
average of six percent of the base cost of the project. Price contingencies
are based on projected international and local price increases (in dollar
terms) of seven and a half percent in 1984, seven percent in 1985 and six
percent thereafter. Local cost contingencies were calculated in US dollar
equivalents on the assumption that variations in the exchange rate would com-
pensate for the difference between local and international inflation.
59.       Total financing required for the project is US$67.5 million includ-
ing a US$99,751 front-end fee. The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million
equivalent would represent 59 percent of the estimated financial requirements
for the project (66 percent of costs net of all taxes), including $15.6
million in foreign costs, the front-end fee and US$24.3 million in local
costs. Bank financing of local costs is justified by: (i) the importance of
the project in developing a potentially highly productive frontier region in
Peru; (ii) the need to improve social conditions in the project area; and
(iii) the current fiscal and balance of payments difficulties faced by Peru
(paras. 15 and 17). The remaining US$27.5 million equivalent in project
costs would be provided by the Government, BAP and beneficiaries. Retroac-
tive financing of up to US$350,000 (less than one percent of the loan amount)
would be provided under the proposed loan to cover start-up expenditures
after January 1, 1984 for activities such as initiation of office construc-
tion and hiring of key project and extension staff (para. 4(a) of Schedule 1
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
60.       INADE would be responsible for general coordination and direction
of the project. PEPP would be directly responsible for executing all compo-
nents of the project except for the agricultural credit, research and exten-
sion and forestry components which will be carried out with the assistance of
specialized agencies (see para. 61). Assignment of executing responsibility
to a project unit of this type, rather than one within a technical ministry,
has proved to be the most effective way of executing rural development pro-
jects in Peru. PEPP already has experience in the successful management of
the USAID-financed rural development project in the Palcazu Valley and the
IDB project in the Pichis Valley. This should help ensure that the proposed
Chanchamayo-Satipo project would be implemented smoothly. PEPP has establish



- 18 -
a project directorate in La Merced which would have responsibility for
day-to-day execution of the project and PEPP would continue to maintain a
liaison office in Lima (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement) because
experience with similar projects has shown that this is needed to ensure that
the project is properly coordinated with other ministries and agencies. The
project would be managed by the Project Director who would be located at La
Merced. He would be under the general supervision of the executive director
of PEPP in Lima. Suitable project and executive directors, who are fully sa-
tisfactory to the Bank, have already been appointed, but the Bank would be
consulted on the qualifications and experience of any proposed replacement
for these positions (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       PEPP would consult with officials of the various government
agencies normally responsible and for the road activities, the Project
Directorate would receive assistance as needed from the Ministry of Transport
and Communications regarding technical issues which might arise during
project implementation (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, three components of the project depend on the active participation
of legally autonomous agencies. In these cases, INADE.would sign formal
agreements with these agencies covering their responsibilities (paras. 48, 51
and 53). Satisfactory draft agreements have already been provided to the
Bank.
Disbursements and Procurement
62.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over six and a half years
against the following eligible expenditures: (i) 90 percent of expenditures
on civil works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expendi-
tures for vehicles and equipment; (iii) 100 percent of total expenditures for
consultant services, training and studies; and (iv) a gradually declining
percent (from 80 to 10) of salaries and incremental costs resulting from pro-
ject activities. All vehicles, equipment and civil works would be too
diverse to be packaged for ICB and would therefore be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Some minor civil
works would be done under force account if necessary with prior approval of
the Bank for each case. Equipment which cannot be grouped into packages
exceeding US$50,000 would be purchased through local shopping, up to a value
of US$350,000.
63.       Government agencies in Peru have had difficulty in executing Bank
projects in the past because they sometimes have not had the funds needed to
pay contractors promptly while waiting to be reimbursed by the Bank. In or-
der to permit more rapid provision of funds for the project, the Borrower
would establish, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a dollar-
denominated special account in the Banco de la Nacion into which funds from
the proposed Bank loan would be advanced (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). This account is expected to consist of an estimated three months
Bank disbursements at any time. The Government would also, for its part, es-
tablish a revolving fund--in the Banco de la Nacion and on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank--which would be used tio pay the Government's
share of project expenses.  This revolving fund would consist of not less
than two months estimated payment needs and would be replenished by the Gov-



_ 19 -
ernment with its counterpart funds each time a payment is made (Section 4.05
of the draft Loan Agreement). The BankVs initial deposit in the special
account would not be made until the revolving fund was established and the
Government's initial deposit made (para. 4 of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Benefits
64.       The rate of return for the 87 percent of project costs with
quantifiable benefits is estimated at 18.6 percent. The main quantifiable
benefits would be the additional agricultural production in the area that
would occur as a result of the project. Sensitivity analysis shows that pro-
ject benefits could be reduced by about 20 percent, or costs increased by
about 20 percent and the economic rate of return would still be over 12
percent.
65.       The objective of this project is to benefit about 20,000 families
by improving the productivity of the area and their incomes as well as their
living conditions. The main agricultural development investments (credit.
etc.) would benefit about 5,500 farm families in the area. Through these
investments, the area under crops would be expanded from about 24,000 ha to
about 32,000 ha, and agricultural production would increase by about 90,000
tons per year. The main product, coffee, would increase by about 4,200 tons
thus increasing foreign exchange by about $3 million annually. Although
there are quotas on sales to the international market, expanding coffee pro-
duction is a priority because: (i) the area is, traditionally, an attractive
one for growing coffee and the profitability of this crop is very high; (ii)
the project is designed to rehabilitate an existing coffee production area--
not to expand the area under production; and (iii) the increased production
from the project, at full development, would equal only seven percent of the
Peruvian total, thus net exports would be increased only marginally.
66.       In addition, production of tropical fruit would increase signifi-
cantly. As a result, average incomes of farming families in the area would
double. The project would also provide about 12,800 families (73,000 people)
--about 60 percent of whom live in absolute poverty--with urgently needed
access roads which, because of the recent rapid development of the area, are
grossly inadequate. Improved management and technical support in forestry
would help guard against environmental damage which is a danger if current
spontaneous development continues. The native Indian communities in the area
would also participate directly in the agricultural development components of
the project and these communities have been consulted fully on project
design. This should increase their incomes considerably and help gradually
integrate these families into the local economy, while helping to preserve
their cultural identity (para. 55). The project would also help further
strengthen a key regional development agency (PEPP) and would strengthen its
ability to prepare and execute future development activities in the Ceja de
Selva. Finally, its design would serve as a model for future projects which
could further develop the Ceja de Selva in a careful and controlled manner.



- 20 -
Project Risks
67.       The complexity of the project suggests that delays could occur with
project implementation. PEPP, however, has previous experience in success-
fully implementing a similar project--which is on schedule--thus providing
assurance that this risk is not great. Furthermore, technical assistance
would be provided for a number of specialized aspects of project execution
and this should help avoid delays. The project involves development of an
environmentally sensitive area encompassing indigenous settlements, raising
the risk of adverse environmental or social effects. Special care has been
taken in designing the project to protect against environmental damage and to
plan development to protect the interests of the Indian communities. Under
the monitoring activity, the project's environmental and social impact will
be carefully watched during project execution so that any problems which do
arise can be promptly identified and acted upon. A monitoring and evaluation
unit would be established in the Technical Directorate within six months of
loan signing (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the
Bank; and (ii) Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special features of the project are referred to in the text of this
report and in Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be the
signing of the agreements between INADE on the one hand and BAP, UNA, INIPA,
and INFOR, on the other as well as the registration of the Loan Agreement
with the Finance Ministry's Public Credit Office (a condition in all official
loans to Peru).
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 8, 1984



- 21 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                   Page  1  of  6
PERU                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
llb  RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970- ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB                EUROPE
AREA (THOUSAND so. KM)
TOTAL                               1285.2      1285.2      1285.2
AGRICULTURAL                         306.1       299.3       305.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    330.0       540.0      1170.0              2088.2                   2453.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      433.0        707.0       807.0              1407.6                   1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    9665.0      12833.0     17031.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)        46.3         59.5        65.9                65.9                     47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              26.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                50.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACIHED                              2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          7.5        10.0        12.9                35.6                     82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             31.6         42.9        54.4                93.2                    157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                           43.6        44.3        42.4                40.1                     31.9
15-64 YRS                           52.0        51.7        54.1                55.8                     60.9
65 AND ABOVE                        4.4          3.9         3.5                4.1                       7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                2.5         2.8         2.6                 2.3                       1.6
URBAN                                5.2         5.3         3.5                 3.7                      3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         45.5         41.5        36.3                31.5                     25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         18.3         14.6        11.1                 8.1                      9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.0         2.5                 2.0                      1.7
FAMrLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..          ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        96.0        102.0        87.0              113.0                     108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREA4ENTS)     103.0        102.0        99.0               111.3                    129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           67.0         63.0        60.0               67.9                      92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0         26.0        25.0/c             34.1                      34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          37.9         20.2         8.9                 5.3                     10.4
REAL TH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         47.5        53.4        57.9                64.6                      67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       162.9        119.7        85.4               62.6                      71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               14.6        35.0        48.3/d              64.8
URBAN                              30.2         58.0        60.07W              77.8
RURAL                                0.8         8.0        2 5. 6/d            44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *         36.0        34.0/d              54.6
URBAN                                 .         52.0        51.0Th              69.8
RURAL                                 ..        16.0          ..                29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1910.0       1820.0      1390.0             1776.0                    1094.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            2210.0/f      720.0       690.0/d            1012.2                    762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              400.0       450.0       520.0c            477.0                     334.0
URBAN                             260.0/e      520.0       400.07W             667.5                    216.0
RURAL                                 ..      2800.0      5610.0T7W           1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             .         1 9.0       23.0/c              27.2                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.9         4 8/g
URBAN                               4.8          4.
RURAL                                4.9         4.6/
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               2.3          l9/g         *
URBAN                                2.0         1.77g        ..
RURAL                                2.7         2.47         *
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               26.0        32.0/a
URBAN                              50.7         54.3l         *--
RURAL                                4.2         2. 7/
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_-_-_-__-_-__-_- -_-_- - -_- -_-__-_-__ _  _ _  _ __ _ 



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TA B L E  3A                                  Page  2  of  6
PERU                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
L 960/b    /,b  RECENT  /b         MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCaME
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB                 EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    83.0        105.0       112.0               105.0                      102.2
MALE                     95.0       113.0        116.0               106.3                     107.2
FEMALE                   71.0        97.0        108.0               103.6                      97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    15.0         30.0        56.0                40.0                       56.5
MALE                     18.0        35.0         60.0                38.6                      63.4
FEMALE                   13.0        26.0         53.0                41.2                      48.9
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)           19.9         17.1         15.1/d              34.0                      22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         35.0        39.0                30.7                       24.7
SECONDARY                           12.0         17.0        29.0/d              16.7                      22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)               61.0         72.5/g      80.0                 79.5                      69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP            8.2         18.0        19.4/c              45.6                       52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         113.8        141.7       165.6               228.2                      165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              3.4         30.8         51.2               108.3                     124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..       129.4         53.5/c             64.1                       96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        6.7           ..           ..                 2.9                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           3025.0       3710.0      5076.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.2         20.8        23.4                24.8                      34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               52.5         48.0        39.2                31.3                       40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.6         18.4        18.2                23.9                      23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.3         28.9        29.8                 31.3                      42.0
MALE                                49.6         45.8        45.6                49.8                       55.2
FEMALE                              13.2         12.0        14.0                 14.8                      29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5          1.7          1.5                 1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBIJTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            39.0
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           64.4         61.0/g
LOWEST 207 OF HOUSEHOLDS             2.5          1.97i g
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             8.0          7.O7..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        235.0/c            289.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       180.07c             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       293.0/c             519.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       200.0/c             372.1                      409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..          ..        49.O/c
RURAL                                _     _
NOT AVAILABLZ
NOT APPLICARLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data Por 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1978; /e 1962; /f 1964; /g 1972; /h Personal income within labor force.
May 1983



- 23 -                                                                            ANNEX I
Pag-e 3 of 6
D001NIMItOtS OF SfO1I1. ENDICAT3OtS
Xtote:  Alhath-  the  aa   r    aa   r,taao                trlyjde thl   -oyI    -os  -othoritatiot nod rettblo. it oh-ltol -I-  e toted  th-t the  y    notI be itnfrxtt-1a
comrati  hasteoftO  lthofttndrd,e   dftttnn   Is  tocpt. uoed by differltoaa-11-t  t  olsclO   the data.  Th. data are,  -oables   oeit
The  Ieeee   gr'nae(itesn    aar   ru   ftoohetcuty and 12) a   acr  g-P aith  -omoht  Sthrarg   tI-t--  ttho  theaotz   nnpc   h
oohjoccontat   (excet forhigh loae   0    xotr"gopee "iddle Encase Noeth Afri-a ad Middle heat" J. cha.e  hootam   oferoececeztls
afiiIs.lth. refo..c.  droo-p   dat   EI Pcontat  o`ra-    h'aato Teihe    rthnto   nn   orMa   adcteedooa  oi   h,  zoIf f5,nos a  to
grou  has dat  foe that itdica--r  SitPicc    l   assoa   aaeo   mngthe  nlooadpoaa   h   ciaihyn   oaadt   o    ntr.rn,t                                                           he
Tita     Tta A     roaanaaprTtflad   ra  n  tlodoner                          hfp. yttao    ptl ta   easanera   thc  a di,                                  b         it    571
1970 oud 1980 data-                                  pd  alorlat1960                                                  tarlte    ono       arlt    ateda   byW nabro  sotom
Ogriolsral- fobor  ofagelIalt-rl  -e  toed r-p-iarly nepeaatpmaeadfml  graa_t tala, a- isto  dn Idd                                                           ooimi....
1970 atd lOft dan.tPelair  o   osla1196oal0rb,  ndrna     Pptia(ttl
91-clatd by  o,aaest   ehda ,rd  akna.(1979-8l hash.);                                                  -rehbeht     Ilitsttneatra   li-tonl .--I ar     d eota i.11.,d b-eaaat1  mea fW
10,17,sd1981  aa,heatilast.tone -t-tmain   ttha0nta reostdlteioeli  os
tar  ar-e sonIt-idd    Rocali tbamith-  eenr l dlazmmhalh.
tENERGY COtNSUMPTIfN FM0 CAPITA -Attalapato  cosato   faoslca                                               mdali-laar         d to   pRsoant1 o-Pto1f had   --, pylcLan  (be by    .Jadza
pri-ay  oegy:2   (ca   n             Ig z   petr Y   Aln aatra  go. and hydes-.  -nl-a,.ttn.nre   fdte    E.  biha  e   eptotasmdso    a
and0  1e9t7a0 tettaty    o .ogam    f  oa1qaoaet  e  oat,;pentz tnatz   -idnif- sfmdtoltathi                                                           sttf s   Fnr_at     aaia.tWan
i9hf.  ilt,  nd l9 t d.                                                                            uhe  hnptla inaad 6d                peacplfgsll    lheplal...Aem
heeitls  lotorrnalhaptal  ad -dtaa  ond metmemy   -amo-m
p2FULAY'Oy Act 'VITAL STATISTICS                                                                            h.peitllzed                                                               'apti   r   lcasdal   adrttl
Toa   telsfa,It-Isr(hna      Iel-d   f jait 1; 19h0. 1970, ond 19118I.eooprIortlMd-Tta   tso   f~almt   eiahna
tr      ID,rlahs   Iprot   f rua) - ftin  of Irhs-  to tona  pnptltInn;Idt   t  .b7fW.
-mng  oOtha 196D. 1970, and liIIdata.                                                                ArOraefo    ftnsood(oso   0  htaed        oal   es    a   aa
potusloion  Er  eac Ott  -  oreo  pponton,  pnbeia                ..s h d on iifO                and their salt  -J.l.  A hearder no Indge&        e   rus   a   ela,ddI
total. p-pltio  by  g  an         d            ...atei  sotality  tat fertility                      the th-nhIld f 5  ttttta   _porpoaro.-I
roe.Prjto   P.r..zn--  fnc mortality rates  -opeiar cf thi,-rf   obro   omoatera-ttl   ren   n   at   eeg    am
lriasai.life oopeotattY . at~l  i-r     i aroan  0th  -noty's Per                          ofproaprts.i   l   rs.  a    eloOptdsmeee
Ynare   Th. par=ose-nfc If         Ittlt   rat-*linhte  hrPlZsE                                      atoOtpte   pats
g,saati daum   itfnrtilty aoodnl        otrm    edadpa   aml                                cemt   larot    frt    Dofin do 1iinga   -   ta.m eht. mad                  - racl
cI hinat-lat  of mortality s  fertdii ty Irsud  fcr p a acie   ptpoe.                                o   oa,nrc,eacra    mlnerepotap
nnsth  hlthrteE  at1  oth   eahrao,od  lo  h  asEbiaTa
deln fots  eltss =    ete-P o  an. t-l  -n tly rpdTth.    rte,J nttt                       Plir,ns  achel - tonal, -olo  so  fema. - Geno  tnsal.  .I.aan  final
rohgeaatc ..     ct'en cslae   Etelf eoi       a tlyh   Th   ttceperlmn   Ealam    ttepitesl   me peroa_l-fas" If fePentla
Onpiltlon  loe  ol elinatd  ot he hets o  the   ncjstedah.ron-                           rmr    -hn-gnppaiton  ms l  Imeladm   ebLhd-   VAg  6.11
tertility  rts tc -eplnnsaent minI.                                                                    bo,rle   with a,rnat di,,aattnn  trh. f nP,,, mama   80Me
oo    ttoryPorolatlox  in --ahd - Th. yzs   hnsoitaysnesm   ppi   r   an Ids.  ..s the-- nfla  meBdo  ao.
pIpalatin  airs sill he -enhe.                                                                      Peodoy      Poeil -         bos 1l  slo and  tamal  -ftamIta  eaabse_     saad
torolotton   .Intetty                                                                                       euaIon esaieeatlt       fcn             ard o  q_pr.ad  priaz   ..tanla
Pe   t   a     id-ta ... al    o  sur  kl-hst-r (100 heotarse.) of                              pitd_sgnrl   n .t-nai  n  satectrtan   t.senettt    e
nnlYa. 1963. 1970 AtO  iggi dIr.                                                                   Vncalcla sorIdmdtl.rotfnnea)-   nsla   at5miO
PnsL.tiOo  M.e stro"ur  (Percent  - Childre  (0-14 year), necking-ag   115-                              tttttds  tshi..       tdatil   sahsprgm    kd    eaetgnamd
h4 y-aro I,tdeird   (h5 FtAr, Od  -lsr  an'ecnae,c   h-sr                                               nl   na  dprmt.o               aetnmdsy hettlanhans
POtloiooOcethsae (ereot  -totl     utto   gont  rte.oftttl  id-prtay  end seaondor  lanelf ..dleds  y nosa  -fOeha i    IBA eJr.
Pyn1ns    -  196lote  for  93h.16-t   o    908.rand                                                                 ens
torsirtotInosI suo  forcau) -  shen - - Acul.gowh rac If nrha                              Molt litoroos caeImret)-                iors    fdls( , tob roa  etden.)s
fuonton   a    1950-60, 19h0-70. and 1  .970-81.                                              a-p-ranrg   ofttladl-eelse   aA   0pe.  a   ee
Crude tteth tote Il. thoaaund) - Acr_Ia  Ine hirthe per thoneod of mid-                                     -IP.II.   S 15Y-                                            W
year popultion; 1960, 1970, and l9ft data..                                                       CONSgfPTIOM
ropalenton   1960(, 19-tnI91dt,resslIgle   ht9li aaae    eldaasaanm    era    n
G'osa tnedaltft-tcgoao    fdabeonma51   ert                                                               ilit-rynhie.
fertlit   nasa  uloll  rie-yst  esrg-e -ndisg  tO 1963, 1973,. ad                            br-atnt  to fool pbli.             art-made   tn-s.tel.zms 
ofhthcurl drasudrsotian   alnhrll    lnn                                                       sora  shssldl -tntng                  .dt
easly biann -Ea -r (p.-asn   of marttO               )  M-  Iertestage  of      p-rete                  g_tcrol  -ubic e=      hmsdpptto;enam                     egm dT            ges
case  tt  hildhesrng  ae (1-h_  oar,  -aho oso hlrth -rota    eicrg      oI  csnntrits dnd is                                , yea.   to reit-ta   ad-tV sets    inl ed ,.
al Iftr cz   ics   c   ru.                                                                        spoorCruast(.   huan    uuase      tn   o   rsg
P000  080 tolTtITIhn                                                                      cioculntlon of  daily general Esteoset mempepern. Aefinod sa a peshsd-itd al
InetoftadPrdctonro    unts19i-7n10  -10m orpo   apra      -             poliuno  dooe   ptsriytoreodIg-eerl  ea,isinoaT,ea
aton   i crdotr of nihodrmdco.   rdcineco                           need on                       sohTdiyVfitarota   ss  io   ls       e
feed ai'd I. r  caena  yer....            Cuuite ..r.rsr  goa  eg g-nemaatnua                                              JIrdoe ....   r,   prrer .-      TaVd   e  heo a  off
F  nOOD    oint AoND rNalhUrTeileRdtITtnunios eiONoas    ol   uro   teyar    olig   dlsln   t   rIsiazas    n
Yco -ffes    dtese st-ldod . Ag(cIt  prodttlo   c.en.h..nory  s                                         antetame
po    ....t iootle  ofIlre   erstofnraureeta    -Cactydta                                              oa   ao    no   (thad.  Ci-- tona_tel                 _ meI,  _arum.    mtiaas
stre  I     ncetif  o  fo   Auplie it.neialItoutypreptprfotsad unmpn "d  o  eCluding hameo-viwa                                                                d ndeth, ate.,  Ifms
eau dm anthno   naoi    e   aptr    nld   nslfe,sas                                               tosptrs..Id 1960,  th70 and  1881 d A daMe.DId,-
qtaOtt~le   oed  In foodprxenhn , an  l,edi  diati yui                 J.                       ?abal.(p_ist..         coelbr0ce   opesmaao   oa   sa   am
not supply of foodpe  day.   Net aupply of toeId.I define  m  nht de.                         carpl.bls.tiost   ppea       co.ml.adOsl       at
-ue    tte   ftai-t   by FoAD nhood hesomo ph   rotrIinl_.. ToE.,h  ItOh. and                                        -I. 1  bt . T fsooe  aads  Il f' gatftplho fasm
of aimal prdhollheo   trg    a   heand    epsdh   A --di            d   ighthe                        teIttste         r  tra   nainl  scrsa
Third tois  rood SnIe 161-5, 1970    and19900 d stO,                                                  cona      1- Srnadtyn -ati  -. noh  of Pun.-rn. Ifr -1 se   8amuet s. O.
drroadrro  atmol  an  poans3n  noa  pe  day 1961-65, 0970 PI, 1917iiit.170I    98 
Igfgoa   10 peace  to  -hidr1 "Inthis P,,  groupd far scatfdnelpt            d                   peren        If th t.let -20  percnt f ..osa  28 penat   sad por       dpreta
onsoti_   dnaIeee   fro  lire  tabldn  19.   1970 so  It I~ dsn.i                                       9C   90 h ld.d191 -            Th        lb.d        ID, tllt-Xt
If A    iLTh                                                                                         P0h0M d  pp-db  FOi~h  f.o  TAto   hg0l.   tI..I ..
Thild Expetact  aMBrh(er)-  eeg   ,s    of, 111;,97.d,   9    d eace st  If-rail                       no          PIll  -7n es tes arePla rery  pdroimet   u.55m            65 poes    -o a  atd
ut _ieth   19ff, 1970, fa nl_  daa                                                                      sel  heltrrtl   ihrnt.rbenal
uChi   tmtoe _       trOth5   he!rm   rtctdhOOo  .  eige*sd                                              ua  olta Doeset Rttaslere  ha-n-tfr"o a                               byras po   cita
eaxtr  nl,  as4 eraarg-            of1  theIr g r   -seoit  fuplaltd.  Enpi en                       peFtatoceothctty.1z,etladsedPrmtem
0010   ennpult  fottltor  tadrot  ocsndOt *l5  ha  00  mta.                lsa  ott   adnten  foP.          ha     otoflnn   En ashen  .ro .               ft.
-eohma o dth  d-teh-d  do- lithat tob.;  90 e         9s0d a  derptl981t  pert--- of
totrento- tocretsb.t  If Yl (pfrlint  of.inpohattTn)n  totaltotIfn nod
W.rivios sod otlniilaryhdstatlldttoPIt.-fat 19l83                                                                                                                       .J.-



- 24 -
Pbpulation:       17,5 million (mid-1982)                                                                              ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:    CS$1,250 (1982)
Land atea;         1,285.5 (Thousand Sq Km)                                                                            Page 4 of 6
Literacy Rate:  80%
PERU: ECXONIC IlDICATORS
Asnt                                       Annuial Growth Rates (x)
Indicator                                 (Million US$ at                 Actual                                     Projected
Current Prices)
1982 /c          1978    1979    1980    1981    1982 Ic  1983   1984    1985    1986    1987
National Accounts
Gross Domsstic Product/a                 21622.2             -0.8     4.6      3.7     3.6      1.0    -9.9      2.0      5.6     5.6      4.5
Agriculture                             1792.3             -0.1      4.6    -6.5    11.9      2.4    -9.7      4.0      8.2     5.0      5.0
Imnustry & Hinirg                       8426.6             -0.7     5.5      5.0    -1.0      0.1   -12.0      2.0      5.0     5.7      3.9
Services                               11255.3             -1.0     3.8      4.7     4.0      1.3    -8.1      1.6      5.6     5.6      4.8
Couaxmption                              18562.6             -5.6      3.5     7.7      8.9     2.6    -9.9    -2.1       6.0     5.5      4.8
Gross Investment                          3699.5            -11.8    -0.8    39.8    19.4   -16.4   -23.9        3.8     6.6      6.6      7.3
Exports of (FS                            4034.6             10.6    15.9   -14.8      1.3    12.6   -15.8    12.3        3.5     5.1      1.8
Laports of CNS                            4674.4            -31.0    10.1    42.6    47.6       3.2   -24.2    -1.0       5.3     5.6      4.5
Gross National Savirgs                    1521.8             13.4     0.4      4.0   -35.8   -28.7    -9.2    49.1    12.8    17.1         7.2
PRICES
GDP Deflator                               260.3             36.2    63.3   100.0   173.2   283.1       -        -        -       -        -
E8cchane Rate                              697.6            156.3   244.6   288.7   422.9   697.6        -       -        -       -        -
Share of (GP at Yarket Prices (X)              Average Armual Increase (Z)
(at Current Prices)/b                   (at Constant 1980 Prices)
1970    1975    1980    1985    1990            1970-75 1975-80 1980-85  1985-90
Gross Domestic Product                                                                            5.0      1.8    -0.1      4.6
Agriculture                                 16.8    12.8      7.9      9.0     9.1              0.6      0.2     1.6      5.0
Irdustry & Minirg                           34.0    36.4    40.2    37.3    36.7                5.1      2.6    -2.1      4.2
Services                                    46.0    48.5    42.0    43.0    43.5                6.5      1.4    -0.2      4.9
Conaxtion                                   83.1    89.0    79.0    81.0    81.5                5.3      1.7    -0.5      4.7
Gross Investment                            13.2    19.6    17.1    14.2    16.0               17.8    -7.0    -6.6       7.2
Exports of GAS                              17.6    10.8    23.6    26.0    24.0               -7.8      6.4     1.6      2.8
Imports of GFS                              14.0    19.5    18.2    21.6    21.5                8.0    -3.6    -0.3       4.6
Gross National Savings                      15.9      9.8     0.0    12.0    15.4               1.7    -2.4    -5.5       9.4
As a % of (IIP
1975    1980    1981
llUJC Fnl&CE /d
Current Revemes                                              30.5    48.6    44.1
Current lpxiitures                                           31.4    47.4    43.9
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                                   -0.9      1.2     0.2
Capital Expenditure                                           8.5      7.6     7.6
Foreign Financing                                             5.3      1.9     2.6
1970-75 1975-80  1980-85 1985-90
OTHER INDICA2TORS
GNP Growth Rate (Z)                                           4.6      0.8    -1.1      4.9
GNP Per Capita Growth Rate (Z)                                1.8    -1.6    -3.3       2.8
ICCR                                                          3.8      9.1    55.9      3.2
Marginal Savings Rate                                         0.1      0.1     0.2      0.3
Import Elasticity                                             0.3    -2.3      0.4      1.0
/a At market prices: corpoents will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
/b Projected years at constant prices.
/c Estivate.
/d Consolidated Public Sector.



- 25 -
Population:       17,5 million (mid-1982)                                                                            Page 5 of 6
GNP per Capita:    US$1,250 (1982)
Land area:         1,285.5 (Thousand Sq Km)
Literacy Rate:  80%                                          PERU - EXrERNAL TRADE
Amwal Growth Rates (%)
Aiunt                                     (at Constant 1980 Prices)
Idicator                                  (Million US$ at                Actual                                    Projected
Cfrrent Prices)
1982 /e         1978    1979    1980    1981  1982/e    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
E1IEIAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports                       3230.0             14.5    27.3   -9.6    -1.6    14.4  -16.7    13.3         3.0      4.9     1.0
Primry                                  2471.0             14.1    20.5   -14.4      4.6    15.2   -12.8    11.5      2.0      4.3    -0.5
Manufactures                             759.0             17.6    75.6    14.1   -11.5    11.0   -33.9    23.5        8.0     8.0     8.0
Merchandise lports                        3787.0           -42.4      6.4    44.9    32.5      3.4   -27.3    -2.3      5.0      5.6     4.6
Food                                     359.0           -25.0    18.2    63.1    54.1   -10.7    24.6   -25.1         1..5    6.7      1.8
Petroleum                                 34.0           -87.4   -86.4   101.3   -25.6    51.2    67.1        2.6     6.1      5.6     4.5
Machinery and Equipment                 1472.0           -17.2    35.6    50.1    39.6       0.5   -35.3      5.0      7.3     6.6     7.3
Others                                  1922.0            -35.5    -1.9    36.9    64.5      9.5   -35.5      3.0     4.5      4.3     3.2
PRICES
Export Price Index                          75.0            57.0    81.0   100.0    84.7    75.0    77.9    89.1    99.7   112.2   121.9
Inport Price Index                          90.4            81.0    92.0   100.0    93.8    90.4    91.3   100.8   108.9   115.9   123,4
Terrs of Trade IlreK                        83.0            70.4    88.1   100.0    90.3    83.0    85.3    88.4    91.5    96.9    98.8
Compositicn of Merchamiise Trade (%)           Average Anneal Increase (%)
(at Current Prices)                      (at Constant 1980 Prices)
1970    1975    1980    1985    1990           1970-75 * 1975-80 1980-85 1985-90
Exports                                     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               -6.1    12.9      1.4     2.1
Primary                                     97.0    92.0    78.7    83.1    78.0              -7.5      9.3     3.2     0.7
Manufactures                                3.0      8.0    21.3    16.9    22.0              18.3    41.2    -4.0      8.0
Imorts                                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              22.3   -10.3    -3.2      4.6
Food                                               7.0    12.0      7.0    13.2              6.9      1.2     2.9      1.1
Petroleum                                         11.0      1.0     1.0     1.7             35.7   -40.7    22.0      4.6
Machinery and Equipment                           31.0    37.0    19.0    41.6              29.3    -3.9    -4.1       7.2
Others                                            51.0    50.0    73.0    43.5              15.2    -6.3    -0.7      3.4
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with
Industrial Cantries(Z)           Developing Countries (%)       Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970    1975    1980             1970    1975    1980              1970    1975    1980
DIRWTIC1 OF TRADE
Exports                                     84.1    58.6    65.9              8.9    23.0    28.6               0.5     1.0      1.4
laorts                                     77.3    76.9    79.7              20.6    16.8    16.4               1.0     4.6      0.9
* lport growth rates are for 1972-1975.
le Estimate.
IACID
February 8, 1984



- 26 -
Pbpulation:         17,5 million  (mid-1982)                                                                         AXMEX I
CIP Per Capita:     US$1,250 (1982)
Land area:          1,285.5  (Thousand Sq Km)                                                                        Page 6 of 6
Liieracy Rate:  80%
PERU - BIANCE CF PAYMEllTS, EfCTRAL ASSISTAKE AtD DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
L                                            PKJWI
lirl icator
1978     1979     1980     1981     1982              1983     1984     1985     1990
BAJIiE CE PAYMF!1S
b:Iports of Goods & Services                     2416     4143     4851     4223     4185              3662     4632     5309     9268
Of which: Marchardise FOB                     1941     3491     3898     3249    3293               2848    3691      4251     7454
Impcrts of Goods & Services                      2664     3536     4923     6088     5988              4980     5415     6038     9791
Of which: Merchandise FOB                     1601     1951     3062     3805     3791              2782    3003      3408     5833
Net Transfers                                      56      122      135      161      167               260      227      238      315
OcLrxent Account Balance                        -192       729       63   -1705   -1636               -1083     -583     -519    -246
Direct Private Investnent                          25       71       27      125       48                31       30       10        88
1rU loans (Net)                                   585      668      341      839      911               1033      569      665      594
Official                                         --       --       --       89      553               360      465      446       591
Private                                          --       --       --      750      358               674      104       219       3
Other Capital                                    -336      111      291      154      791               -81       84       -6    -136
CGrbge in Reserves (-increase)                    -82   -1579    -731        584    -132                100    -100    -150    -300
International Reserves Gross                      243     1822     2553     1969     2101              2001     2101     2251     3501
Reeerves as Mmnths of Isports                     1.1      6.2      6.2      3.9      4.2               4.8      4.7      4.5      4.3
EXFEieNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT b/
Gross Disbursmanta                                843     1120     1416     2427     2300
Official Grants                                   -        - -      - -       2       21
Goncessional loans                               236      143      232      197      251
DA',                                            1ll      113      107       96      122
(ME                                               -        _        _        _        _
Other                                           125       30      125      101      129
Nin-concessional loans                           607      977     1184     2228     2028
Official Export Credits                         213      152      219      102      544
26      61       140       76       72
Other Maltilateral                               13       19       58       71      113
Private                                         355      745      767     1978     1299
&xtenxal Debt
Debt Outstanding & Disbursed                    5403     5934     6169     8378     9289
OiEficial                                      2542     2735     3158     3246     3799
Private                                        2861     3199     3011     5132     5490
lIdisbursed Debt                                1206     2103     1698     2803     2723
Debt Service
Total Debt Service Payments                       750      919    1501      2355     2154
Interest                                        317      437      544      768      786
PsymeaLts at % of Erports                        31.1     22.2    30.9      55.8    51,5
Average Interest Rate on New Ioans (%)            7.6      9.5      9.3    12.6      12.2
Official                                        6.7      6.1      7.4      8.6      9.6
Private                                         9.1     11.9    10.6      15.6    13.5
Average Maturity of New loans (Years)            10.7     11.3    12.1      11.9    10.2
Official                                       11.6    14.4    15.1       16.8    15.6
Prizvate                                        9.1      9.1     10.1      8.1      7.4
a/A dcuble dash stands for "not available."
b/1978-1980 exclude private ox-guaranteeded.
IADID
Febmrar 8, 1984



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1983)
Amount
Loan                                                          (less cancellations)
Number     Year            Borrower            Purpose          Bank    Undisbursed
--- US$ million --
30 loans fully disbursed                                        507.5
1196        1976    Republic of Peru        Transport            76.5        12.7
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.           21.6        3.2
1358       1977    COFIDE                   Industry             35.0         2.9
1403       1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture          25.0       15.6
S-11        1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         8.8         1.0
1771       1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation           56.0       40.9
1806       1980    PETROPERU                Petroleum Prod.    32.5         10.2
1812       1980    Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.           15.0        11.4
1888       1980    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment         7.5        4.0
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.       5.0         3.7
1963       1981    CORPAC                   Aviation             58.0       56.4
1968       1981    COFIDE                   Industry             60.0       38.7
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU             Power                25.0        20.6
2064        1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry               26.0        22.8
2091        1982    Republic of Peru        Transport            93.0        93.0
2117        1982    PETROPERU               Industry              5.3         5.2
2139        1982    SEDAPAL                 Water Supply         40.6        37.9
2150       1982    Republic of Peru         Agriculture          40.6       38.6
2179        1982    ELETROLIMA              Power                81.2       79.7
2195        1982    PETROPERU               Petroleum            81.2       80.0
2204        1982    Republic of Peru        Technical Asst.    10.2           6.5
2208       1982    Republic of Peru         Education            17.3        17.0
2211        1982    Republic of Peru        Health               33.5        33.0
2219       1982    Republic of Peru         Rural Develop.       30.0        28.3
2302        1983    Republic of Peru        Agriculture         130.0       129.7
Total                                                   1,522.3
of which has been repaid                                221.6
Total now outstanding                                   1,300.7
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid             18.3                 -
Total now held by Bank                                  1,282.4
Total undisbursed                                                     790.5



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Type of
Year                Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.2        -      0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.      Bricks             0.3       -       0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.            Building
Materials          0.3      -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers          4.1       -      4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.              Cement             2.3      0.2     2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo         Cement             1.1      0.5     1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining            15.0       -     15.0
1978/83     Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining             6.0      0.5     6.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.             Mining              2.7     0.5      3.2
1981        Sogewiese                         Leasing            3.0      0.1     3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de           Power
Huancavelica                   Transmission        4.5      -       4.5
1982        Palmas del Espino                 Palm Oil          15.0       -     15.0
Total gross commitments                             54.5     1.8    56.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           40.2      0.6    40.8
Total held by IFC                                   14.3     1.2    15.5
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                              9.4      -       9.4
1982 1/     Sociedad Minera
Gran Bretana S.A.              Mining              3.0     0.5      3.5
1/  Approved by Board on July 6, 1982, but not yet signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: PEPP with assistance of FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program
(c) First presentation to the Bank: December 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May 1983
(e) Completion of Negotiations: February 3, 1984
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: July 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) BAP would, as condition of effectiveness, enter into a contract,
satisfactory to the Bank, with INADE which specifies the implementation
details of the credit component (para. 48);
(b) the Government would ensure that roads in the project area would be main-
tained and that Ministry of Transport would assist PEPP should technical
issues arise; in this respect, PEPP would establish a maintenance unit,
present to the Bank, and implement a program to transfer the maintenance
support unit to an appropriate regional authority. In addition, from 1985
onwards, the maintenance unit's annual program and budget would be sent to
the Bank for comment (paras. 50 amd 61);
(c) the Government would ensure that no further logging concessions were grant
ed in the project area until forestry studies were completed and a
satisfactory plan for the zones designated for protection was prepared.
This plan would be prepared by December 31, 1985 (para. 53);
(d) PEPP would maintain a liaison office in Lima. The Bank would be consulted
on any change in the executive or project director of the project (para.
60);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) INADE would, as a condition of effectiveness, enter into agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, covering the participation of INIPA, UNA and
INFOR (paras. 51 and 53);
(f) retroactive financing of up to US$350,000 for start-up expenditures after
January 1, 1984 would be permitted (para. 59);
(g) in order to facilitate Bank reimbursement of expenditures, a special ac-
count would be established. Before Bank funds were advanced, the Govern-
ment would also establish a revolving fund. The revolving fund would be
maintained at a level of at least two months' projected counterpart expend-
itures for the project (para. 63); and
(h) within six months of loan signing a monitoring and evaluation unit would be
established in the Technical Directorate (para. 67).



BPD 17'482
SEP'[. BER MS2
CHANCHAMAYO- SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELVA CENTRAL
Proposed  Feecer  Rood  Imp,--t,nr  F-re     Resore    A,Eos
o                                       - -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~DeP-st-t Bo-dor e
RE-s,Ig M-o Rooor
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~  E
e~~~~~~~~e
e-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
El   -ETI          o



