Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4724-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 6, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
{  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                     Peruvian Soles S/. 2,070
S/. 1,000  =             US$0.48
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                     10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)         =          2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)   =            1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BAP       Agrarian Bank of Peru
CAS       Agricultural Service Cooperative
CENFOR    Forestry Center of INFOR
CIPA      Center for Agricultural Research and Extension
DF        Forestry District
DGFF      General Directorate of Forestry and Fauna
DGRAAR    General Directorate of Agrarian Reform and Rural Settlement
DPF       Forestry Police
ED        Executive Directorate
ENACO     National Enterprise for Coca
ENCI      National Enterprise for Marketing Inputs
INAF      National Institute for Expansion of Agricultural Development
INADE     National Institute for Development
INDA      National Institute for Agroindustrial Development
INFOR     National Forestry Institute
INIPA     National Institute for Agricultural Research and Extension
MA        Ministry of Agriculture
MTC       Ministry of Transport and Communications
OGCR      General Office of Rural Cadaster
PD        Project Directorate
PEPP      Pichis-Palcazu Special Project
UNA       National Agrarian University
UNCP      National University of Central Peru
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
STAFF APPRIASAL REPORT
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Land Resources  .................. . .                            1
Population and Production....                                    2
Government Policies  ........................  .     ..           2
Regional Development of the Selva .       . ....................  2
Previous Bank Participation  ..... i      .    .....................    3
II.  THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Access ..........       ..               *...        4
Regional Context . .................... .   . ......              4
Resource Base ..............................                      4
Settlement and Land Tenure. . .                                  6
Present Agricultural Situation ..        .......................    7
Infrasl:ructure. . .                                             9
Agricultural Services .        . ........................       10
Institutional Aspects .. .        . .........................    11
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Introduction   .      ......................    13
B.  Project Description .......................                 13
C. Detailed Features .14
Credit .....................................             14
Marketing ...                             .......... 15
Extension ...............................                15
Research .15
Forestry .16
Roads .17
Land Titling .18
Native Communities ................                      19
Project Directorate .19
D. Project Costs ...............                                19
E. Project Financing .20
F. Procurement ..............                                   21
G. Disbursement .23
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Peru during May/June 1983. The mission comprised Messrs. D. Myren,
R. LeBreton, W. Beattie, G. Russell and W. Matthey (Bank) and Messrs.
S. Romanoff and M. Dourojeanni (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Executive Directorate (ED)  .............................                  24
Project Directorate (PD)  ...............................                  24
Credit  ............         .....................................         25
Extension and Research  .................................                  26
Forestry  ..........          .....................................        26
Roads and Civil Works  ..................................                  27
Land Titling  ...........................................                  27
Native Communities  .....................................                  27
Agreements with Implementing Agencies  ....                ..............    27
Accounts and Auditing  ..................................                  28
Monitoring,  Evaluation and Reporting ...................    28
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, YIELDS' MARKETING AND PRICES
Production and Yields  ..................................                  29
Marketing  .........          .....................................        30
Prices  ............         .....................................         31
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits  ..........          .....................................        32
Economic Rate of Return  ................................                  32
Project Risk  ...........................................                  34
Environmental Impact  ...................................                  34
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 2 - Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
SUPPORTING TABLES
1       Credit:   Nominal and Effective Rates of BAP
2        Credit:   Detailed Cost
3       Agricultural Extension:   Detailed Cost
4       Research:   Detailed Cost
5       Forestry:   Detailed Cost
6       Roads:   Detailed Cost



Table of Contents (continued)
7      Roads:  Improvement and Construction Standards
8      Land Titling:  Detailed Cost
9      Native Communities:  Detailed Cost
10      Project Unit:  Detailed Cost
11      Marketing:  Detailed Cost
12      Project Component Costs by Time
13      Summary Project Account by Component
14      Summary Project Account by Time
15      Disbursement Schedule
16      Financial Prices (Annual)
17      Coffee Farm Model - Production and Inputs
18      Coffee Farm Model - Financial Budget
19      Citrus Farm Model - Production and Inputs
20      Citrus Farm Model - Financial Budget
21      Avocado Farm Model - Production and Inputs
22      Avocado Farm Model - Financial Budget
23      Pineapple Farm Model - Production and Inputs
24      Pineapple Farm Model - Financial Budget
25      Total Farm Budgets
26      Economic Analysis
27      Feeder Roads:  Economic Analysis of First Year Program
28      Economic Analysis of La Florida Cooperative and Yurinaki Bridge
29      Summary Economic Analysis:  Feeder Road Component
CHART 1 - Project Organization
MAP IBRD 17482






PERU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Land Resources
1.01      Peru has a limited natural resource base for agriculture.  Of the
country's 128.5 million ha, it is estimated that about 40% has no
agricultural potential, 40% is suited only for forestry, 15% is best suited
for pastures, and about 5% is suiitable for intensive agriculture.  About 3
million ha are presently in agricultural use, including about 1.2 million ha
under irrigation and 1.8 million ha rainfed. Of the remainder, about 22
million ha are under natural grass and the rest is either suitable for
forestry or unsuitable for cultivation because it is too dry, too poorly
drained, or too steep for any form of food or fiber production. There are
three well-defined topographic and climatic zones in Peru - the Costa, the
Sierra and the Selva.
1.02      The Costa, which constitutes the Coastal zone in the west of the
country, consists mainly of flat desert plains, sand dunes and the dry
heavily eroded Andean foothills. It is a narrow 3,000-km-long belt, covering
about 13.1 million ha (10.2% of the total land area), where about 46% of the
country's population lives.  Coastal agriculture is limited to the river
valleys where irrigation is possible; these valleys produce over 40% of the
country's gross value of crop production, including sugar, rice, cotton,
maize, potatoes, citrus, olives and grapes. The region enjoys relatively
close proximity to the urban markets, a good transportation network, and
other infrastructure and is relatively prosperous.
1.03      The Sierra, which constitutes the Andean highland zone, covers
over 33.4 million ha (26% of the total land area) and accounts for about 44%
of the population. It consists of steep mountains reaching over 5,000 m and
high valleys located between the mountain ranges. Some 2.3 million ha in the
Sierra are cropped and about 17.3 million ha are used for grazing, mostly
under marginal conditions because of steep slopes and high altitudes.  Severe
topography, erratic rainfall and extreme changes in temperature make farming
difficult and limited to a short season, leading to low agricultural
productivity.
1.04      The Selva, which constitutes the tropical forest zone east of the
Andes mountains, covers about 82 million ha (63.8% of the total land area)
and accounts for 10% of the total population. It comprises two subzones:
the eastern slopes of the Andes at medium altitude - the Ceja de Selva; and
the Amazon jungle - the Selva Baja (Lower Selva). Although most soils in the
Lower Selva are classified as marginal and suitable primarily for grazing and
forestry, soils in the Ceja de Selva are generally of better quality. With
the construction of the Trans-Andean Highway System and oil exploration, the



-2-
Selva has been gaining in economic importance over the last two decades, and
the related migration of farmers from the Sierra to the Ceja de Selva in
particular has provided considerable impetus to agricultural development.
Population and Production
1.05      The percentage of rural population in Peru declined from 53% to 33%
between 1961 and 1981. Registered unemployment in the rural sector is almost
nil, but underemployment (as measured by income below the minimum wage rate)
is about 61% compared to about 48% in the urban sector. Agricultural
productivity is low, which explains the disproportionately low 12%
contribution of the agriculture sector to the country's GDP.
1.06      As a result of population increases, the massive migration of the
rural population into the cities, and the slow development of agricultural
production during the last decade, Peru's agricultural balance of trade has
become significantly negative. At the beginning of the 1970s, the trade
surplus was typically in the order of about US$100 million, but by 1981 there
was a trade deficit of about US$230 million.
Government Policies
1.07      The most significant change in policy under the present civilian
Government compared to military Government policy during the 1970s is in the
greater emphasis on private versus public initiative and on incentives versus
control measures. A new Agricultural Promotion Law (Ley de Promocion y
Desarrollo Agrario) was enacted in November 1980 to tackle some of the
constraints to agricultural development. It provides special fiscal
incentives to agriculture and agro-industries and opens the way for
commercial banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the
Agrarian Bank of Peru (BAP), to extend credit to the agricultural sector by
eliminating prohibitions on the mortgaging of land. The law also ended
agrarian reform actions such as transfer of private farms into
production cooperatives, and freed domestic and foreign marketing of farm
products by allowing private marketing channels to develop. Furthermore, the
present Government decontrolled prices of most commodities, which until 1980
were highly regulated, and eliminated direct subsidies on most food products
and inputs.
Regional Development of the Selva
1.08      With respect to regional development, the most significant
initiative of the new Constitutional Government has been its support for
orderly development of Peru's vast land area beyond the Andes. Over the past
five years, 10 projects have been designed and initiated, or scheduled for
initiation in early 1984. These Special Projects are located for the most
part in the piedmont area of the Selva and cover a total area of 7.7 million
ha considered to have great potential for near-term impact on food production
and balance of payments. Within this area, 1.6 million ha have been assigned
priority for crop, livestock and forestry production, and investments would
benefit about 125,000 families.



-3-
1.09      The total cost of these projects is estimated at US$522.5 million,
including Government funding and the support of international organizations,
such as IDB, IJSAID, the Governments of Spain, Canada, Belgium and Switzerland
the Federal Republic of Germany's KfW, and the World Bank (Loan 2219-PE -
Alto Mayo and the proposed Chanchamayo-Satipo project).
1.10      These projects, initially administered under the Presidency of the
Council of Ministers and now under the Cabinet-level National Institute for
Development (INADE), have four main objectives: (a) increased production and
productivity through expanding the agricultural frontier and rational use of
the natural resources of the Amazon region; (b) planned colonization and
channeling of spontaneous migration through planned highway construction; (c)
increased regional employment and income; and (d) conservation of natural
resources and maintenance of the Amazon eco-system.
1.11      To achieve these objectives, the projects typically contain
several of the following components: (a) road construction and maintenance;
(b) farm credit, (c) research, extension and training; (d) agricultural and
Forestry development; (e) evaluation and management of natural resources; (f)
energy; (g) land titling; (h) social infrastructure; (i) technical and
administrative coordination; and (j) monitoring and eval-uation of the
project.
Previous Bank Participation in the Agricultural Sector
1.12      The Bank has made 15 agricultural loans to Peru, totalling US$379
million. Five of them, in the 1954-73 period and totalling USS55 million,
were for agricultural credit (Loans 105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE, and
933-PE) and were channelled through BAP and its predecessors. In general,
BAP's performance in executing these operations was good. The Performance
Audit Report (Sec M81-465 of June 2, 1981) for the fifth project (Loan 933-PE
of 1973) concluded that the project's rate of return exceeded that estimated
in the appraisal report (30% vs 26%), but it noted that the Bank did not use
the loan as an effective instrument in discussions on interest rate levels
with the Government. This was done, however, during preparation and
appraisal of the Sixth Agricultural Credit Project (US$130 million) in 1983.
1.13      Two loans (Loans 67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE of 1954), totalling US$3
million, were for farm machinery imports and another two (Loans 114-FE of
1955 and 418-PE of 1965), totalling US$24.4 million, financed irrigation
works and land settlement in the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura
basin on the coast. The Performance Audit Report (Sec M78-43 of January 18,
1978) for the San Lorenzo project financed by Loan 418-PE concluded that the
project achieved its basic goals of increasing agricultural production and
the incomes of rural poor, but the need for better maintenance of works, a
strong project unit, and agricultural support programs for irrigation
projects was noted. These findings were taken into account in the design of
the two most recent Bank-financed irrigation rehabilitation operations: the
First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project and the Lower Piura project (Loans
1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1979 for US$25 million and US$56 million,
respectively). In 1980, the Bank approved its first rural development loan
in Peru, a US$15 million operation for the Puno zone in the Sierra (Loan



-4-
1812-PE) which is now progressing satisfactorily after a slow start.
Finally, the Bank provided a US$40.6 million loan to support the
re-establishment of the agricultural research and extension system and a
second rural development loan of US$30 million for the Alto Mayo area of the
Ceja de Selva (Loans 2150-PE and 2219-PE), which became effective in 1983 and
are now operational.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Access
2.01      The project area is located in the provinces of Chanchamayo-Satipo
in the Department of Junin on the lower slopes of the Andes in the Central
Selva (map IBRD 17482). It extends from about 300 km to 400 km east of Lima,
and lies between 100 and 110 latitude south. It comprises the zones of
influence of the main road system (carretera Marginal de la Selva) San
Ramon-La Merced-Satipo and is connected by a highway from San Ramon in the
project area through Tarma and La Oroya in the highlands to Lima on the
coast. The Tarma-San Ramon portion of this highway, as well as the main road
through the project area from San Ramon to Satipo, will be improved and paved
under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan 2091-PE) which became effective in
early 1983.
Regional Context
2.02      Although Peru's undeveloped land is located mainly in the Low
Selva, the most practical opportunities for near-term impact on food
production and balance of payments are through intensification of
agricultural production in areas which are already accessible and occupied.
2.03      After about 50 years of spontaneous colonization, the
Chanchamayo-Satipo area has reached a critical point in its development.
Much of the forest wealth has been harvested, soils have been depleted
through slash and burn agriculture, and systematic maintenance of fertility
is not yet common practice. Only a few farmers have achieved high levels of
technology and yields and managed to fully develop their farms. The combined
spontaneous migration and natural population growth presently total
more than 7% per year and careful attention is needed to develop a pattern of
sustainable agriculture if a social and ecological crisis is to be avoided.
Resource Base
2.04      Topography.  The project area, approximately 730,000 ha, covers
much of the watershed of the Perene river and its tributaries.   In altitude,
the project area ranges from about 500 meters above sea level to over 3,000
meters in the highest mountain areas. It consists basically of two parts:
(a) the main project area of about 400,000 ha of largely settled land on the
lower slopes and valleys along the Perene and its tributaries; and (b) about
330,000 ha of higher slopes on the north, east, and south with few
inhabitants which the Government has proposed to set aside in three reserves
for forest protection and production. (Map IBRD 17482).



-5-
2.05      Soils,  The soils of the project area consist broadly of four
types: (a) recent alluvials of small extent, in narrow discontinuous strips
along the main rivers, flat and fertile, but subject to flooding; (b) old
alluvials on river terraces at higher levels, of lower fertility, moderately
fine texture and usually free-draining; (c) residual soils on hillsides,
usually clays or silts, some moderately acid (pH 5.0-7.0); and (d) humic
gleys in small isolated depressed areas of poor drainage, sometimes highly
acid.
2.06      Climate.  The climate is tropical and the annual rainfall in the
main agricultural area ranges from about 1,100 mm at Pto. Ocopa in the driest
zone (located in the northeastern boundary of the project area) to about
1,800 to 2,300 mm in the area around San Ramon. However, certain areas of
steep slopes, where forest protection will be of higher priority, receive
from 3,000 mm to over 5,000 mm of rainfall annually. The lowest rainfall
period is between June and August, but still high enough to allow the
development of permanent crops, without irrigation. Mean annual temperature
ranges from 220 C to 260 C. Thus, conditions are favorable for plant growth
throughout the year, limited only by low insolation during the rainy season.
2.07      Water Resources and Drainage.  The area is well watered, with
numerous streams and rivers rising in the Andes and draining toward the
Amazon basin. The hydro-electric potential is high, but up to now little
exploited. There are no navigable rivers within the project area, but Pto.
Ocopa on the perimeter has access to the navigable rivers, Ene and Tambo.
Drainage presents no general problem owing to topography and to the
free-draining character of most of the soils.
2.08      Land Use and Forestry.  Approximately 14,000 ha are in annual crops
each year, 45,000 ha in permanent crops, 11,000 ha in pasture, and 96,000 ha
in fallow for the slash and burn system of crop production; the remaining
564,000 ha are classified as forest area, most of it on land either too steep
or too poor for agricultural use. The forests are of the tropical moist
hardwood type. Average yield per hectare of commercial species is about 40
m3 roundwood. There has been considerable temporary cultivation of
excessively steep slopes and land is sometimes cleared simply to establish
ownership rights. Given the limited areas of flat lands and a population
growth rate estimated at 7% per annum, these steep slopes are under
increasing pressure. It is urgent to enforce existing laws to avoid burning
and cropping the areas least appropriate for cultivation and most susceptible
to erosion. Further details of the forestry resource can be found in the
Forestry Component Working Paper and in the forest inventory carried out by
UNA Forestry Faculty, in the project files (Annex 2).



-6-
Settlement and Land Tenure
2.09      Population.  The project area has been colonized by immigrants from
other parts of Peru, mainly the High Andes (Sierra). Total population in the
area is estimated at about 160,000 of which about 77% is rural. Although
precise income data are not available, it is estimated that at least 65% of
rural population is below the poverty income level of US$300 per capita.
There are about 20,000 farmers in the area, of whom some 2,000 are natives
distributed in about 90 native communities.   Most of them are partially
integrated in the market economy of the regi6n, though with very low
commercial production per family. The native population belongs mainly to
the Ashaninca, also known as Campa, ethnolinguistic group, with a few small
communities of Amuesha.
2.10      Tenure and Land Titling.  About 46% of the native communities and
only about 5% of the other farmers in the project area have titles to their
land. In addition a large number of farmers have a variety of claims
including: pre-agrarian reform titles, agrarian reform "contracts", forest
concessions, certificates of possession, and unofficial claims and bills of
sale. However, the number of titles (including old titles and agrarian
reform "contracts") that are valid is estimated by the project staff to be
only about 1,000 (with an additional 2,000 cancelled or in the process of
being cancelled). Disputes over land are common among colonists and between
native communities and colonists.
2.11      According to an MA survey, 67% of farm production units are between
10 and 50 ha, 28% of holdings are smaller than 10 ha, and 5% are units larger
than 50 ha. Land holdings per family for native communities are similar to
those for colonists. Within the project area, the holdings of 49 communities
with titles or with plans for titles (including forest land) average 897 ha.
It is estimated that the median community has 14 ha per family, that 24% of
communities have less than 10 ha per family, and that 12% of the communities
have 50 or more ha per family.
2.12      Individual and native community titles to agricultural land are
granted under the provisions of Decree Law 22175 (Law of Native Communities
and Agricultural Development of Low Selva and Piedmont Regions, 1978).
Land titles of individuals may be sold; on the other hand, the title is
invalidated if the parcel is abandoned for two years, ceded to a third party,
sold without notifying the General Directorate of Agrarian Reform and Rural
Settlement (DGRAAR), or left unworked for 12 months after title is granted.
Land titled to native communities is inalienable and may not be mortgaged.
The title is communal and, while informal parceling to individuals occurs,
land may be divided into individually titled lots only if two-thirds of the
members of the community request it.
2.13      Under a special agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture
(MA), covering the forestry, cadastral and agrarian reform work of the
General Directorate of Forestry and Fauna (DGFF), and the General Office of
Rural Cadaster (OGCR), and DGRAAR agrarian region, respectively,
these institutions have delegated to the Pichis-Palcazu Special Project
(PEPP) until 1989 the responsibility for coordinating the field work and



-7-
various functions previous to the granting of titles which is then done by
the Lima office of MA. This was initiated in the project area in 1983 and
has had good results. The Ministry of Justice (General Office of Public
Registers) is responsible for maintaining the official registry of land
titles but has not had an office in the project area; consequently changes in
posession are frequently not recorded. The project will help to rectify this
(para 4.08).
2.14      Native Communities.  The size of the native communities varies
from a half dozen families to 50 or more. In the western part of the project
area, where there has been in-migration of colonists for several decades, the
communities lost part of their land prior to passage of Law 22175 (para
2.12), and are now more involved than before in cash crop production. Many
speak primarily Spanish and in some cases have accepted colonists into their
communities. Further west and at the periphery of the area, the communities
have larger holdings; more forest land; more traditional hunting, fishing and
gathering; less cash production; less use of Spanish; and less integration
with the colonists. This project facilitates application of Law 22175.
2.15      Most: native communities have a community center, including the
houses of part of the population, which is generally located near the closest
road. Internal roads are largely those constructed for timber extraction and
a common use of the funds which communities earn from selling their timber is
construction of an improved school or community center. The Amazonic Center
for Anthropology and Practical Applications, a church-related group, funds
the work of specialists (agronomist, sociologist, social worker) to assist
native communiLties. Most of the groups do not have access to credit or
technical assistance for crop production. A detailed study of the native
communities in the project area is included in the project file (Annex 2).
Present Agricultural Situation
2.16      For reasons of topography, about 74% of the project area (para
2.08) is forest, mostly on steep slopes and already logged over. The
26% of the project area that comprises soils of lesser slope and better
quality, produces important volumes of coffee and fresh fruits, particularly
citrus, papaya and avocado, and subsistence crops, mainly maize, beans, rice
and yuca.
2.17      Coffee.  Coffee is the single most important crop, with about
35,000 ha under Arabica varieties. The area once produced about 20 to 22,000
tons of coffee annually, or about 30% of the country's total production of
coffee in the mid-1970s. Since 1979, however, the region has been badly
affected by leaf rust and production has declined drastically, reaching a
level of only about 12,000 tons in 1982. The negative effect of leaf rust on
the region's coffee output has been further aggravated by failure to replace
over-age trees with high yielding varieties, low use of inputs, and lack of
financial and technical assistance.



-8-
2.18      Citrus.  Citrus, mainly Valencia oranges, but also mandarins,
lemons and limes, is the second most important crop covering 5,700 ha of
which 4,600 ha are in production. Annual production is estimated at about
40,000 tons, which represents about 60% of total sales of citrus in the Lima
market. In general, citrus, which is grown under rainfed conditions in the
region, is well cared for and shows little evidence of pests, diseases or
nutritional deficiencies. Despite the good market potential for citrus from
Chanchamayo and Satipo, the expansion of citrus planting has been
constrained by problems of obtaining medium-to-long-term credit, by the
uncertainties resulting from lack of titles over farm land in the area, and
by the low quality of feeder roads.
2.19      Papaya.  Up until 1980 there were over 2,000 ha under papaya in the
region, producing about 41,000 tons of fresh fruit for the Lima market. The
plantings, however, have been affected by a virus, causing significant
losses, and the combined effect of this virus plus nutritional deficiencies
of the plantings led to a sharp decline in yields and area under papaya
between 1980-82. As a result, production fell to about 6,000 tons over the
same period.  The introduction of virus-resistant varieties and improvement
of cultural practices, however, could bring papaya production back to its
earlier levels.
2.20      Avocado.  Avocado orchards total over 2,000 ha, largely
concentrated in Chanchamayo. Except for a problem of root rot present in
some plantings, the trees appear healthy and the regional production (about
9,000 tons) represents nearly 50% of the total Lima market consumption of
avocados. Chanchamayo avocados are of good quality and production in the
region could be increased, provided varieties resistant to root rot are
introduced and long-term credit is made available to farmers, together with
the solution to their land titling problems.  Present plantings are located
along the rivers and main roads but an expansion of the production area would
require an improvement of connecting feeder roads.
2.21      Pineapple.  The region is also a major supplier of pineapple to the
Lima market (over 90%). Plantings covering about 1,300 ha are in Chanchamayo
and produce about 15,000 tons per annum. The local varieties are not well
suited for processing, with the result that only about 2,000 to 3,000 tons
are processed each year by INDALSA, the local factory. A change in variety
to the more suitable Smooth Cayenne would increase the demand of pineapple
for processing. Thus, there is a potential demand for both fresh fruit and
fruit for processing, but farmers in Chanchamayo are not likely to introduce
any changes in their cultural practices and varieties or expand the area
under pineapple unless adequate technical and financial assistance is
provided.
2.22      Bananas.  The third most extensively grown crop (4,500 ha) after
coffee and citrus is bananas (including plantains), with the bulk of
production being sold in the Lima market (about 70%) without much regard to
quality and prices. The remainder is used on the farm, either for direct
consumption or as feed for small animals, or sold in the local market.
Bananas are usually grown together with other crops and receive little
special attention. This practice, plus some pests and diseases (nematodes
and insects), has led to rather low yields of 4 to 6 tons/ha. Total
production in the region fluctuates around 27,000 tons per year.



-9-
2,23      Subsistence Crops.  There are about 4,000 ha under maize, with a
production of about 7,000 tons per annum, and some 3,000 ha of yuca, with an
annual production of approximately 21,000 tons, as well as smaller areas of
rice and beans. Yields are low largel'y because of inadequate fertilization
and cultural practices.
2.24      Livestock.  The modest livestock production in the region is
directed mainly to the local market or used for on-farm consumption. The
cattle population is estimated at 13-15,000 head, mostly criollo or
zebu-criollo crosses. Cattle are raised on natural pastures, with little
herd management. Many farmers keep a few chickens and hogs but there is
practically no commercial production at present. This may be expected to
develop over time through use of plaintain, banana and yuca as carbohydrate
sources.
2.25      Yields and Production.  Although the area is already settled and
much of the land with productive potential is occupied, only a few farmers
have achieved high levels of technology and yields. Producers in the area
are responsive to commercial demand, as indicated by the range of crops
already produced, but are presently constrained by lack of financial
resources, particularly long-term credit, and lack of technical assistance.
Consequently, further development of the region is feasible, provided the
credit constraint is removed and better technological support is made
available.
2.26      Farm Labor,  Although the average farm in the region is small and
basically a family enterprise, most of those producing coffee and fruit for
sale have short periods of peak labor demand, principally at harvest time.
This is hand-Led through an established tradition of seasonal migration from
the highlands which also helps to ameliorate the under-employment problem in
the highlands. Eventually some of these workers adapt to the conditions of
the Selva and decide to remain and obtain land or permanent employment in the
region.
Infrastructure
2.27      Roads.  Responsibility for planning, design, construction and
mainitenance of all roads in the country resides in Peru's Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC). However, it is a weak institution with
serious capability constraints. Although now being strengthened under the
Eighth Highway Project (Loan 2091-PE), it focuses primarily on expanding and
improving the main road network; as a result, minor provincial roads receive
only sporadic emergency maintenance from MTC. Thus, by default, minor road
improvement and/or maintenance work has passed to local authorities.
2,28      The outlet for the whole of the project area is the road from San
Ramon through the Sierra to Lima via Tarma and La Oroya. The distance from
San Ramon to  ima is about 300 km and, except for the first 39 km, the road
is asphalted. Traffic is, however, occasionally interrupted by landslides in
the Sierra. Internal communications are based on a main road system
emanating from San Ramon through La Merced then forking with a southern
branch running through Pichanaki to Satipo and Mazamari while the other



-10-
branch continues eastward to Villa Rica (Map IBRD 17482).  The primary road
network in the area consists of gravel roads, which would be paved as far as
Satipo and Villa Rica under the Eighth Highway Project. Feeding into the
main roads are about 1,200 km of access roads and tracks, constructed
originally as logging roads. Some have been somewhat improved by communal
effort, but, in general, they are narrow, unsurfaced, poorly constructed and
frequently impassable during the rains. The poor access adversely affects
delivery of services, use of modern inputs, and marketing of products.
2.29      Health Services.  Only La Merced and Satipo have general hospitals;
San Ramon, Pichanaki and Mazamari have health centers and mDst rural families
use these health services only in cases of emergency. The most serious
health problem throughout the area is the lack of potable water which, along
with the lack of latrines, contributes greatly to the spread of parasites and
disease.
Agricultural Services
2.30      Input Supply.  Over 60% of the fertilizer consumed in Peru is
manufactured within the country by three state enterprises and two privately
owned enterprises. Domestic production represents about 80% of the nitrogen
used, 40% of the phosphorus and 24% of the potassium fertilizer. The
National Enterprise for Marketing Inputs (ENCI) controls the import and
commercial distribution of fertilizers, with 380 registered fertilizer sales
outlets, of which 58% are private and the rest are cooperatives that handle a
number of commodities, including fertilizer. Only 8% of the sales outlets
are in the Selva.
2.31      Plant protection materials are readily available in the
agricultural areas from private business sources. Large-scale farmers tend
to be aware of the virtues of particular disease and insect control products,
but many farmers in the Sierra and the Ceja de Selva are completely dependent
on the advice of salesmen. An informed extension service could greatly
assist in ensuring efficient and cost-effective use of plant protection.
2.32      Marketing.  Food crops,  mainly maize and yuca, are sold locally or
consumed on the farm; ENCI purchases maize at a guaranteed price. Coffee is
generally marketed through marketing companies; 10 Agricultural Service
Cooperatives (CAS) handle 80% of the coffee produced in the project area, and
the remainder is marketed by intermediaries. The CAS either export the
coffee directly or through ENCI.  Peru is a member of the International
Coffee Organization, which fixes the export quota; administration of the
quota in Peru is done by the Junta Nacional del Cafe. The export quota for
1982/83 was 40,740 tons, accounting for about 71% of the year's production.
2.33      Fresh fruit passes through a complex system of intermediaries
before reaching the consumer. Producers sell to itinerant traders at the
farmgate if they have poor access to local commercial centers, or they sell
to local privately owned collection centers which arrange transport to and
sale in Lima, or they entrust their produce to a transporter who sells on a
commission basis in Lima. Except for bananas, which are sold in a separate



-11-
central market, all of the fruit passes through the wholesale market in Lima;
the largest price mark-ups occur between this point and the consumer. At no
point in the system is there any Government intervention; however, prices
fluctuate considerably. A small proportion of the fresh fruit production is
also sold to INDALSA, a private fruit processing plant located between La
Merced and San Ramon which processes about 4,000 tons per annum into fruit
juices and concentrates, largely citrus, and some jams and canned fruit.
2.34      Only in the area of fresh fruits can the present marketing system
be significantly improved, mainly by better sorting , grading and packaging
which would reduce losses considerably and enable farmers to obtain better
prices. The Government has recently introduced some measures to improve the
marketing of rural produce nationwide, including establishment of PROCOMPRA,
a semi-autonomous unit with funding from a bilateral agreement with Spain and
responsible to the Vice-Minister of Agriculture.
Institutional Aspects
2.35      The Pichis-Palcazu Special Project (PEPP).  PEPP, which would be
the implementing agency for the proposed project, was established by the
Government in 1980 for the purpose of planning and implementing the
development of a specific area in the Low Selva: the watersheds of the
Pichis, Palcazu and Pachitea rivers. PEPP is currently in charge of the
implementation of the IDB-financed rural development project in the Pichis
Valley, the USAID-financed rural development project in the Palcazu Valley,
the KfW project in Oxapampa, and the Chanchamayo-Satipo project fcr which
this loan is proposed. Although these projects have all been initiated
during the past three years, PEPP has rapidly established a good reputation
for its strong competent administration and the practical accomplishments of
its field staff. PEPP and the other Special Projects have broad
multi-sectoral powers and can enter into contracts and agreements with public
and private entities. Because of its administrative location, previously in
the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and now in the new National
Development Institute, PEPP is able to deal effectively with the various
Government agencies involved in project design and implementation in the
Central Selva, Among these entities are MTC, mentioned above, and various
directorates and institutes of MA as constituted under the new organic law
for the agricultural sector issued on January 18, 1981.
2.36      Ministry of Agriculture.  Under the new structure, since 1981 MAG
has retained responsibility for policy planning, administrative, regulatory,
and control functions in the agricultural sector. However, direct
responsibility for technical and support functions and activities were placed
in four semi-autonomous institutions and two public enterprises. The four
institutes are: the National Institute for Agricultural Research and
Extension (INIPA), the National Institute for Expansion of Agricultural
Development (INAF), the National Forestry Institute (INFOR), and the National
Institute for Agroindustrial Development (INDA).  The two public enterprises
are ENCI and the National Enterprise for Coca (ENACO).



-12-
2.37      The MA regional organization in the project area includes Agrarian
Zone VIII, San Ramon, which covers the Oxapampa and Chanchamayo regions, and
Zone XII, Huancayo, which covers the Satipo area. The zone officials are
mainly concerned with enforcement of agricultural and forest legislation,
veterinary immunization campaigns, land titling and cadastral survey, and
compilation of statistics. In forestry, district personnel with normative
guidance of DGFF and administrative control of the agrarian region, are
responsible for law enforcement and for approving extraction contracts, INFOR
provides technical support, and the Forestry Police, an arm of the Civil
Guard, supervises extraction and transport of timber, all within serious
staff and funding constraints. In agriculture, INIPA has recently begun to
provide research and extension services in the area, but activities are still
limited by shortage of funds. Additional qualified staff, facilities and
support services are needed.
2.38      The Agrarian Bank of Peru (BAP).  BAP is a Government-owned
institution with 19 branch offices, 65 agencies and 25 inspectorates
nationwide. It provides about 93% of the total institutional credit to the
agricultural sector and recently received a US$130 million loan from the Bank
to support a four-year lending program. BAP's policy currently provides
lending autonomy for agencies to approve up to SI. 30 million (US$15,000) for
individual subloans and S/. 200 million (US$100,000) for subloans to
cooperatives and for branches to approve up to S/. 120 million (US$60,000)
for individual subloans and SI. 1,000 million (US$500,000) for cooperatives.
Where the subloans are for new borrowers, the lending autonomy is reduced by
50%. In addition, all subloans in excess of S/. 14 million (US$7,000)
require crops or other assets as security, and copies of documentation are
sent to the head office for supervision. BAP's current rates for the Selva
are shown in Table 1. Crop loans and long-term loans for tree crop farms,
equipment and livestock establishment receive some subsidy.  These rates are
required to be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, at bi-annual intervals to
reflect changes in market rates.
2.39      BAP's audited financial statement to December 1982 showed BAP to be
financially sound, with total assets of S/. 441,000 million (US$294
million). In addition, under the Sixth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
2302-PE), the Government guaranteed to maintain the value of BAP's equity in
real terms. The Sixth Project also provides technical assistance for the
upgrading of BAP's staff and the development of an information system.
2.40      BAP's operation in the Chanchamayo-Satipo project area is currently
centered at the La Merced branch, with two outlying agencies and two more
planned to become operational. Apart from loans for coffee marketing,
denominated in US dollars at interest rates varying from 18% to 21%, in which
the private banks participate, BAP is the sole provider of institutional
agricultural credit in the area. In 1982 BAP loaned SI. 24,400 million
(US$16 million) in the area, maintaining its 1979 level of lending in real
terms.  Of this, 77% (vs 95% in 1979) represented subloans for coffee, of
which 59% (1979, 81%) was for marketing loans.  The reduced percentage of
subloans for coffee reflect the recent diversification of agricultural
development in the area, mainly fruit crops.  Because BAP's allocation of
resources for the area is directed mainly to coffee marketing (59% for
marketing at La Merced compared to 7.5% nationally) and is largely to
repetitive and larger borrowers, the small scale producers in the area
perceive BAP to be negative toward new borrowers, restrictive in loan size



-13-
and selective in loan processing. Consequently, without the promotion,
technical assistance and the general support of the project, very little
increase could be expected in the use of institutional credit by these
producers.
2.41      BAP's staff in the La Merced zone of operation includes 20
professionals who processed 3,433 subloans in 1982, or an average of S/.
1,219 million (US$813,000) per professional annually. The staff in the area
is expected to increase proportionately with the two new offices planned and
the anticipated increase in subloans.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      In support of its agricultural development strategy, the Government
of Peru has requested Bank assistance to finance a rural development project
in the provinces of Chanchamayo and Satipo in the Department of Junin. The
project was prepared by the Executive Directorate of the Pichis-Palcazu
Special Project assisted by FAO/IBRD CP. Bank participation in the project
would continue the Bank's strategy of supporting development of Peru's Ceja
de Selva.
B. Brief Description
3.02      The project would aim at increasing agricultural and forestry
production in an area of about 730,000 ha. Most of the 20,000 rural
families in the area, including about 2,000 native families, would benefit
under the project. The components listed below were selected to maximize
productive impact while minimizing tensions between colonists and native
communities during the development process. To accomplish its objective, the
project would:
(a)   provide credit to about 5,500 farmers;
(b)   reinforce extension services in the project area;
(c)   support research to develop and field test improved
agricultural technology;
(d)   modify forest exploitation to permit regeneration and
sustainable production;
(e)   improve about 427 km of access roads and establish a viable
system for maintenance;
(f)   improved marketing of fresh fruit;
(g)   support a program to provide legal titles for about 15,000
individual farmers and 85 native communities; and
(h)   assist native communities by introducing measures to improve
their security of tenure, level of skills and potable water
supply; and
(i)   strengthen the executing agency.



-14-
3.03      The thrust of the agricultural development program is to increase
productivity by obtaining broad adoption of improved technology that has
already been proven in the region and to reinforce technical support services
to be able to anticipate and respond to new problems that can be expected to
occur in the course of development. The project would provide agricultural
extension and credit to about 5,500 farmers, including 500 to 600 members of
native communities, to assist them to gradually rehabilitate about 14,000 ha
of coffee and 3,800 ha of perennial fruit (citrus, avocado, papaya) and
semi-perennials (pineapple, banana) and to expand the plantings of tree crops
other than coffee by 4,200 ha. Technology packages have been defined for
each crop, based on the experience of progressive farmers and agronomists in
the project area. In all cases these packages include increased
fertilization and in most cases better control of insects and diseases with
which immediate yield response can be obtained. Major components are as
follows: (1) for coffee rehabilitation, introduction of improved lines,
systematic control of leaf rust by spraying, removal of excess shade, and
improved pruning practices; (2) for papaya, liming and testing of new
varieties to locate virus tolerance; (3) for avocado, field testing of
additional commercial varieties and establishment of new plantings only on
deep light soils to avoid problems with root rot; (4) for pineapple,
introduction of the best clone of Smooth Cayenne because of its market
potential, and pre-planting control of soil insects and nematodes; and (5)
for citrus, introduction of higher yielding varieties and involvement of all
producers in fruit fly control.
3.04      The project would be implemented over six years and would be
administered by PEPP's Executive Directorate in La Merced (with a liaison
office in Lima) and its Chanchamayo-Satipo Project Directorate also located
at La Merced in the project area. Most of the project activities would be
managed through implementation agreements with relevant governmental and
private agencies, strengthened for purposes of the project.
C. Detailed Features
Credit
3.05      Medium- and long-term credit would be provided (Table 2) for land
clearing, procurement of small equipment (fumigators, depulpers) and tools,
on-farm development and purchase of draft animals and would be based on farm
investment plans elaborated with the assistance of extension personnel (para
4.04). Incremental short-term credit would be provided for about 3,000 ha of
subsistence crops annually and to help producers meet the operating expenses
of caring for existing tree crops during the initial years of the new tree
crop establishment. Items to be financed would include seeds and seedlings
for replacement, fertilizers, chemicals, machinery rental, labor costs, and
marketing and transport of farm products. Medium-and long-term resource
requirements are estimated at about US$17.8 million and short-term
requirements at about US$2.8 million over the project period. In view of
BAP's increased resources, including funds from the Bank's recently approved
agricultural credit loan for US$130 million to BAP (Loan 2302-PE), BAP would
provide the credit for the project from its ownconsolidated resources (para
4.04).



-15-
Marketing
3.06      Two rural marketing centers for grading and packing fruit would be
opened in the project area--one to be constructed in La Merced and one at
Sat-po (Table 11). The production would be destined primarily for the Lima
market. Each center would have a capacity of about 14,000 tons per year of
citrus, pineapple, papaya, bananas, avocado and other products.   The
Executive Directorate would arrange for construction of the centers either
through PROCOMPRA or directly. The centers would be owned and managed by the
local producer associations when completed. Assistance for the associations
in marketing would be financed under the project. The project includes the
costs of construction of the two new marketing centers in the project area as
well as incremental operating costs and a four person implementation group
whose role will be defined by agreement between PEPP and the producers
association. This group would work the first year at each center with the
producers to get the fruit packaging plants in operation and effectively
market the produce.
Extension
3.07      The project would finance reinforcement of existing extension
services of INIPA in the project area (Table 3) including:
(a)   rehabilitation of the zone office at San Ramon and an agency
at Pichanaki (2,200 m2); construction of zone offices at
Satipo and agency offices at Pampa Silva and San Martin
Pangoa (2,200 m2); and construction of simple dwellings for
extension workers in 26 villages (1,248 m2);
(b)   the purchase of 27 pickups and 52 motorcycles; four 4-wheel
drive vehicles; and office and field equipment for the
facilities shown above;
(c)   incremental salaries (20 professionals, 27 non-professional
technical staff, eight clerical and 17 support staff) and
operating costs of the program; and
(d)   the costs of farmers' short courses, in-service staff
training and external training.
Research
3.08      Research to design and test improved agricultural technology would
be carried out in a coordinated program by UNA and INIPA with UNA taking main
responsibility for on-station research and INIPA carrying out on-farm trials
(para 4.05). The project would strengthen the research capacity of UNA at
Satipo (Santa Teresa) and at San Ramon (La Genova). The on-station research
under the proposed project would focus on variety trials to test new material
and studies of disease and pest control. Station nurseries would also
produce the initial stock of improved plants for distribution to private
nurseries and farmers. Financing (Table 4) would be provided for:



-16-
(a)   construction of laboratories, classrooms, library and housing
(1,580 m2) at La Genova;
(b)   purchase of technical, scientific, office and farm equipment
for both stations, including also a fruit grader, two pumps,
two greenhouses and a limestone crusher;
(c)   purchase of six pickup trucks; and
(d)   incremental salaries and travel costs for a project
coordinator, two soil scientists, three crop specialists, an
agro-economist, eight assistants, two clerks and 10 laborers.
Forestry
3.09      The project would have three principal forestry goals:  (a) the
protection and improvement of logged-over forest in preparation for a second
cutting cycle; (b) the protection and/or replanting of abandoned agricultural
land; and (c) the controlled development of the remaining block of virgin
forest for timber production. To reach these goals, the project would:
(a)   expand INFOR's ongoing forestry research and reforestation
program by hiring eight foresters, 10 forest technicians and
support staff and supplying vehicles and infrastructure,
including field offices in Pichanaki and Satipo, new
nurseries at San Ramon and Satipo and expansion of the
existing nursery at Pichanaki. The reforestation program
would produce native and exotic seedlings in sufficient
quantity to reforest approximately 4,000 ha;
(b)   enable DGFF and the Forestry Police (DPF) to initiate the
protection of approximately 200,000 ha of forest areas and
finance the preparation of a forest cadaster (files and maps
of existing forest properties and concessions). To achieve
this, seven foresters and 12 forest technicians would be
hired and 18 additional forest guards will be provided by
DPF, a new district office at Satipo and six forestry police
posts would be built and supporting equipment and vehicles
would be purchased. The DGFF, through its forestry districts
at San Ramon and Satipo, would prepare studies of the forest
reserve areas bordering the project area (see map) to
determine areas of production forest and areas of protection
forest. Issuance of new exploration concessions would be
frozen until the DGFF completes these studies. Assurances on
this point were obtained at negotiations (para 7.01). The
production areas would then be opened to concessions and the
companies winning those concessions would prepare the
necessary management/utilization plans with DGFF
supervision. The DGFF would prepare management plans for the
protected areas. These latter plans would consist largely of
patrol schedules and plans for research on fauna and flora;
(c)   establish a forestry extension service within INFOR with four
foresters and four technicians;
(d)   finance a series of forestry courses and seminars for
foresters, project personnel, forestry police, and skilled
laborers; and
(e)   finance part of a study to determine methods of involving
native communities in income generating forestry activities.
Additional funding for this study would come from the
project's native community budget.



-17-
Detailed investments are given in Table 5 and detailed background on the
forestry component is on file in a working paper (Annex 2).
Roads
3.10      The project would provide funds for the improvement of about 427 km
of access roads in areas of high agricultural activity and population
density; a bridge across the Rio Perene to connect the virtually isolated
eastern bank area to the main highway, so as to provide year round access;
and technical assistance, tools and equipment to develop and support a system
of access road maintenance by local communities. The objectives are (i) to
improve and maintain farmers' access to markets which is very important in an
area with a large marketable production of perishable crops, and (ii) to
develop and expand local institutional capacity to organize, manage and
execute labor based road maintenance practices which could continue to
function with a minimum of assistance from departmental or national
government agencies. To accomplish these goals, the project would finance
(Table 6):
(a)   construction of a bridge (90 m) across the Rio Perene at
Yurinaki;
(b)   consultant services for detailed engineering, preparation of
contract documents, supervision of construction of the above
and training in road maintenance;
(c)   purchase of road maintenance tools, and equipment;
(d)   construction of two workshops; and
(e)   operating and repair costs of maintenance equipment during
the implementation period.
3.11      Road improvement standards are shown in Table 7 and road locations
appear on the map. Since the roads in the project area traverse both the
flat to rolling topography of the valley bottom lands and the sharply rising
steep mountainsides leading to and through higher altitude agricultural area,
there is considerable variation in road characteristics. In the flatter
terrain road closure is due to inadequate drainage and weak soils which would
be improved by raising the road beds, ditching and applying river gravel
surfacing.  On the narrow mountainous roads the improvements would consist of
providing adequate drainage systems, passing bays as well as better traction
and surface resistance through road surface improvement with the best
available roadside materials.  Transporting river gravels up hill would in
general be prohibitively costly.  Preliminary engineering of all road works
has been completed as well as detailed engineering for roads to be
constructed during year 1.
3.12      The road maintenance program would seek to expand and support
community responsibility which is already in evidence in some parts of the
project area. Local government districts would be required to enter into
agreement with the project directorate to have the communities execute the
necessary routine maintenance work, as a pre-condition to having any roads to
the communities improved. In return the project would: (i) furnish an
initial supply of tools; (ii) provide training in labor based maintenance



-18-
practices; (iii) assist the local government in organizing and managing
maintenance; and (iv) provide some mechanized support, particularly in
transporting suitable materials for use by community maintenance labor.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a program of action for
road maintenance, including budget requirements, would be forwarded to the
Bank for review and comment not later than July 31, 1985 and updated annually
thereafter. Maintenance support units managed by engineering staff who would
be contracted by the project directorate, would be established to provide the
necessary training, technical assistance and support to the communities. The
staff of the units would be assisted by specialized consultants in organizing
the necessary training and would provide at least three years of supervision
of community efforts. The units would assist the project directorate in
equipment procurement and workshop construction, and would operate the small
equipment pools and the mechanical workshops which would eventually be
transferred to an appropriate local government authority. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that a program for the transfer would
be presented to the Bank for comments not later than March 31, 1988 and made
effective not later than March 31, 1989 and that adequate budgets would be
provided for continued operation and repair of the maintenance equipment
pools (para 7.01).
3.13      Training would be assisted by specialized consultants who would
first teach project staff how to become effective trainers. A model labor
crew financed by the project would be trained to test proposed procedures,
crew productivity, work organization and management. The crews would be used
to provide demonstrations to district officials and to give training to
district foremen and crew organizers, who would be nominated by the district
authorities. This training would be provided by project staff who would
provide the subsequent supervision and evaluation of district efforts as
well as on-the-job assistance in programming and managing maintenance works.
The proposed training programs would be a part of the annual plan of action
(para. 3.12).
Land Titling
3.14      The project would finance incremental operating expenses for the
entities working jointly under PEPP coordination on an expanded titling
program (para 2.13). Its objective is to provide legal titles for farmers in
the project area who do not have them -- about 15,000 individual farmers and
48 native communities -- and for 37 native communities at the periphery in
the zone of influence of the project (20 in the Ene-Tambo area and 17 in the
Gran Pajonal).  In addition land registry would be established in the project
area.  Expenses covered under the project would include (Table 8):
(a)   salaries and travel costs of incremental staff;
(b)   purchase of vehicles and a boat;
(c)   purchase of office and field equipment; and
(d)   operating and maintenance costs for equipment purchased.



-19--
Native Communities
3.15      Various components of the project would include act-ions to
safeguard the land and the rights of native communities and to
increase their participation in the regional economy and enable them to
benefit from the project. These would include: (a) continued priority
for native communities in land titling; (b) inclusion within the extension
service of trained bilingual (Spanish and Campa) extension officers to give
technical assistance and promote the use of credit among native communities;
and (c) involvement as trainees and later as staff for implementing parts of
the forestry component. In addition, the project would support a special
native communities component including (Table 9):
(a)   an appropriate technology program covering nutritional
improvement, handicraft production and small scale
industries;
(b)   completion of about A00 potable water systems for native
communities and neighboring small-scale farmers;
(c)   assistance to native communities for self-help construction
of community buildings, particularly schools and health
posts; and
(d)   training related to the above activities.
Project Directorate
3.16      The Project Directorate (PD) would receive financial support
(Table 10 ) for:
(a)   office construction (300 m2 total) and rehabilitation (600
i2), housing and dormitories (700 m2 total).
(b)   purchase of 18 pickups, office supplies and equipment;
(c)   contracting additional staff (39 professionals and
technicians, 13 clerical and 22 support staff); and
(d)   operating and maintenance costs for vehicles, equipment and
facilities.
D. Project Costs
3.17      Total project costs, including contingencies, US$7.6 million of
indirect taxes and the front end fee, are estimated at about US$67.5 million;
of this total US$21.5 million would represent foreign exchange costs.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 15% for civil works and 5% for
machinery and equipment. Base costs are in October 1983 values. Although
Peru continues to experience high domestic rates of inflation, it uses a
system of regular adjustment in its exchange rates relative to hard
currencies which approximately covers the differential between domestic and
international inflation. Therefore, price contingencies in the project costs
are calculated on US dollar base values and estimated at the following rates:
1984, 7.5%; 1985, 7.0%; and 1986-89, 6.0% yearly. Detailed project cost
statements are presented in Tables 12, 13, and 14 and summarized below.



-20-
PERU
CHANCHANAYO - SATIPO RURAM. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMNARY
(S/. Nillioii)              (US$ Million)         ; of
------------------------ ------------------- Foseion  ; of Total
L.oel   Foreiuc,    Totil    Locil Forei ., Total E>chanre Base Cos
A. CREDIT                        21,873,2 110719,9   33i593,1  10Q6           5.7  16.2       34.9         30.9
B. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION         7Y186,1  1,556,6    9,742.8   3,5           0,8   4,2       17!8          8.0
C, RESEARCH                       2,479.7  1902,17    3,982.4   1.2           0.7   1.9       37t7          3.7
D, FORESTRY                       6,358.9  1,290.6    7?649.5   3.1           0.6   3.7       16.9          7.0
E. ROADS                         t9,891.9 14,196-9   34!088.8   9.6           6.9  16,5       41.6         31.4
F. LAND TITLING                   6S600.6    724.?       7,325.3   3,2        0.4   3.5        9.9          6.7
G. NWrIVE COMMUNIT[ES             1,338,5    569.1   1907.6   0.6            0.3   0.9       29.8          1.8
H. PROJECT UNIT                   50427.6    710.1       6i137.7   246        0.3   3.0       11.6          5.6
I. MARKETTNG                      3f349.8  1,950.3    5,30)00    1,6          0.9   2,6       46.8          4.9
Total BASELINE COSTS               74f506.2 34!220,9  108,727;1  36.0    16.5  52,5              31.5       100.0
Physical Contingencies           4,075.7  2,87?98    6f955,4   2.0           1,4   3.4       41.4          6,4
Price Contingencies             16,759.2  7,076.9   23,836.1   8.1           3.4  1135       29,7         2119
Total PROJECT COSTS                95f341,0 44F177.6  139,518.6  46.1    21,3  67,4             31.7        128.3
Fron,t End Fee                          -    232.9        232.D9             0.1   0.1      100,0          0.2
Total FINANCING REQUIRED           95y341,(  44i410.5  139i751,5  46,1         21.5  67,5       31.8        12858
E. Project Financing
3.18           The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would meet 59 percent of
total financing requirements (66 percent of total costs net of all taxes),
including US$15.6 million in foreign costs, the front end fee and US$24.3
million in local costs. The Government would be the borrower and would carry
the foreign exchange risk. The loan would be for a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
remaining project costs, including contingencies, would be provided by
Government, BAP and beneficiaries as shown in the following table.



-21-
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Proposed
Producers             World Bank
Government  BAP       Assoc.   Farmers       Loan       Total
Credit
Long-term                       15.0                 2.8          -         17.8
Short-term                       2.4                 0.4          -          2.8
Subtotal                      17.4                 3.2          -         20.6
Marketing                   .4                1.4        -           1.3         3.1
Extension                   .5                           -           4.7         5.2
Research                    .2                           -           2.2         2.4
Forestry                    .5                           -           4.1         4.6
Roads                     3.1                            -          19.3        22.4
Land Titling                .4                           -           3.9         4.3
Native Communities          .1                           -           1.0         1.1
Project Directorate        .3                            -          3.4          3.7
Front End Fee               -                                         .1          .1
Total                5.5      17.4       1.4       3.2        40.0        67.5
F. Procurement
3.19       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the Table below:
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project Element                       ICB      LCB    Other       N.A.        Cost
Civil Works                             -     15.0      7.3        -          22.3
-    (13.5)   (6.6)        -         (20.1)
Vehicles and Equipment                  -      9.1               13.9          23.0
-     (8.6)                -           (8.6)
Salaries and Operating Costs            -                        19.7          19.7
_                        (8.9)        (8.9)
Consultant Services, Training,          -                         2.4           2.4
Studies                            _       _(2.4)                           (2.4)
TOTAL                                    24.1      7.3      36.0         67.4
(22.1)   (6.6)   (11.3)         (40.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
Loan.



-22-
Civil Works
3.20      Contracts for improving access roads, totalling about US$12.0
million over four years, would be procured using local competitive bidding
procedures (LCB).  Because of the small scale of operations which would be
required, particularly on the narrow mountainous road sections, Schedule of
Rates contracting procedures would be used when appropriate as an alternative
to unit price bidding. In some flatter areas, both types of contracting
would be tried to permit a comparison of the prices obtained. Since the
project area is large while work volumes on individual roads are small and,
in addition, since overall project implementation would not be favored by
grouping road improvements in each geographical area into larger annual
contracting packages, the resulting individual contractor would tend to be
small. In addition, the suitability of smaller equipment and labor intensive
procedures for the type of work required, would probably make the work more
attractive to smaller contractors than to Peru's traditional, larger road-
contractors or to international firms already working in Peru. Both would be
eligible to bid on combinations of several contracts, if interested, however,
the contracts would not be advertised internationally.
3.21      Construction of the bridge across the Perene river at Yurinaki is
estimated to cost about US$0.8 million equivalent, and would be contracted
using LCB procedures, satisfactory to the Bank. Peru has experienced
contractors capable of handling such works. The balance of civil works
contracts for offices, housing, and research facilities are not of a scale
which would interest foreign contractors; therefore, LCB procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be used. Any combined packages of works in
excess of US$500,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. PEPP would organize bidding and would supervise
the construction of the works.
Goods and Services
3.22      Workshop machinery, tools and maintenance equipment, as well as
vehicles and motorcycles would be procured by locally advertised competitive
bidding which is appropriate for the small volume of goods involved. Major
suppliers of equipment have established agencies in Lima and all would be
required to have, or to establish, equipment repair and spare parts supply
services in or near the project area. Furniture and supplies, and
scientific and technical equipment would be grouped; orders under US$50,000
would be placed after prudent shopping procedures in accordance with local
regulations acceptable to the Bank, and packages over US$50,000 would be
subject to LCB. The total value of scientific and technical equipment, as
well as furniture and supplies procured through direct negotiations, is not
expected to exceed US$350,000. Expatriate assistance and consultants would
be selected on the basis of qualifications and experience and in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Scholarships extending for one academic year or more
and external travel associated with technical training financed under the
loan would require prior approval of the Bank. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the provisions of this and the preceding paragraphs on
procurement would be followed.



-23-
G. Disbursement
3.23      Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
Category                          Item                           Amount
(US$ million)
I                Civil Works:                                   18.0
90% of total expenditures
II                Vehicles and Equipment:                         8.0
100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
III                Incremental Salaries and Operating Costs        8.0
80% until aggregate disbursements
reach equivalent of $4,800,000
45% thereafter until aggregate reaches
the equivalent of $2,700,000
10% thereafter until aggregate reaches
equivalent of $500,000
IV                Consultant Services, Training and Studies:   2.2
100% of total expenditures
V                Initial Deposit in Special Account              1.0
VI                Front-end Fee                                    .1
VII                Unallocated                                     2.7
Total                                          40.0
3.24      The project would be implemented over six years and disbursements
under the Bank loan would extend over six and one-half years (Table 15).
Taking into account historical disbursement profiles for agricultural and
rural development projects in the region, which have averaged eight years,
the proposed period is justified because of: (a) PEPP's experience in
coordinating similar projects in the region; (b) present status of design
preparation for access roads and the bridge at Yurinaki as well as the
initiation of land titling activities; and (c) strong Government commitment
reflected in the project's special status under the new cabinet-level
National Development Institute.
3.25      For all civil works carried out by local contractors, and for
incremental salaries and operating costs, disbursements would be made on the
basis of certified statements of expenditures.  The supporting documentation
would be retained by the respective implementing agencies and be available
for inspection by Bank supervision missions, the Project Directorate and the
auditor. Disbursements against other expenditures would be made upon



-24-
submission of the normal documentation. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations on these points. Retroactive financing of up to US$350,000
(less than one percent of the loan amount) would be provided for costs
incurred after January 1, 1984 for start-up including essential equipment and
initiation of office construction and hiring of key project and extension
staff.
3.26      In order to ensure timely payments of project costs, a working fund
would be established in the Banco de la Nacion by the Government to cover
estimated expenditures for two months. Simultaneously, in order to also
accelerate disbursement, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in US
dollars at Banco de la Nacion into which the Bank would make an initial
deposit estimated to cover the Bank's share of three months of expenditures
(US$1.0 million). The borrower would claim reimbursement of the Bank's share
of expenditures from the Special Account upon presentation of withdrawal
applications, which, in turn, would be forwarded to the Bank fully documented
for replenishment of the Special Account. The Bank would require a monthly
statement of the Special Account which would reflect transactions during the
previous month. Similar facilities are included in the Bank's Eighth Highway
Project (Loan 2091-PE) and the Alto Mayo Project (Loan 2219-PE).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Executive Directorate (ED)
4.01      The Chanchamayo-Satipo project organization has already been set up
under the Executive Directorate of the Pichis-Palcazu Special Project (PEPP),
originally in the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, and
presently under INADE.  Chart I outlines the project organization.  PEPP
would have authority over this project as well as over three others in the
Central Selva region (para 2.35), but would delegate day-to-day operation to
the Chanchamayo-Satipo Project Director located in the project area at La
Merced. The PEPP Executive Director's function with respect to
Chanchamayo-Satipo would therefore be to:
(a)   ensure that planning, programming, and implementation conform
to the provisions of the Loan Agreement with the Bank;
(b)   ensure that all resources necessary to carry out the project
are available in a timely manner;
(c)   approve plans and programs of the Project Directorate (PD),
and approve and sign contracts required for project
execution.
To ensure effective coordination of the project with the participating
agencies, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that the ED would
continue to maintain a liaison office in Lima.
Project Directorate (PD)
4.02      The Project Director Chanchamayo-Satipo, who is already in place,
would be responsible for the efficient implementation of the project, on
behalf of the ED to whom he would report directly. The Project Directorate
(PD) would head five sub-directorates: farm production services (FPS), land
titling (LT), roads and buildings (RB), administrative services (AS), and



-25-
planning and evaluation (PE), (Chart 1).  He would also be responsible for
coordinating aspects related to the native communities. Specific
responsibilities of the five sub-directorates are sumarized below:
(a)   FPS would implement:  (i) the farm development and credit
program, including extension and research, with the
participation of BAP, INIPA and UNA; and (ii) the forestry
development and protection program to be executed by DGFF,
INFOR and the Forest Police. It would also be responsible
for the training and native communities component and would
prepare progress reports on all of the above;
(b)   LT would implement the land titling program, with the
participation of DGFF, DGRAAR and OGCR under agreement with
MAG (para 2.13);
(c)   RB would coordinate and control all civil works and related
contracts for consulting services. Consultants would be
engaged for detailed engineering, supervision of construction
and technical assistance in training. Staff contracted
directly by RB would manage the road maintenance units and
conduct related technical assistance and training (para 3.12,
3.13) and would assist RB in procuring equipment.
Consultants would assist RB in preparation of bidding
documents, in evaluation of bids for civil works and in the
preparation of progress reports on works for which it is
responsible;
(d)   AS would be responsible for budgeting, accounting, personnel,
supplies and support services; and
(e)   PE would produce and annually up-date an Integrated Rural
Development Plan for Chanchamayo-Satipo, plan and execute
systematic monitoring of the program, evaluate project
impact, make appropriate recommendations, and modify plans
and programs based on data gathered.
4.03      Although difficulties may occur in attracting qualified personnel
to work in the field, the transportation and housing to be financed under the
project should generally provide sufficient incentives. The key staff
positions in the Project Directorate have already been filled by personnel on
short-term contract. Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that, in
the event Government removes the Executive Director or the Project Director,
their replacements would have qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Credit
4.04      Under a credit agreement between BAP and the ED (para 4.10), BAP
would assume responsibility for channeling adequate development and
production credit through its local agency at La Merced in the project area.
The agreement would include a schedule of annual lending targets and
provision for annual review of the targets. Under this agreement, a credit
sub-committee, with representatives of BAP, the Center for Agricultural
Research and Extension (CIPA), the PD and beneficiary farmers, would meet at
quarterly intervals to analyze the supply, demand and delivery aspects of
credit and production inputs. Terms and conditions of lending would be in



-26-
accordance with BAP's established norms, as agreed by the Bank for the Sixth
Agricultural Credit Project. Farmers would be aided by the project's credit
promotors in preparing long-term investment plans and in calculating seasonal
credit needs, which would be appraised by BAP. Loan approval, supervision
and recovery would also be the responsibility of BAP, assisted, if necessary,
on technical aspects by INIPA personnel. BAP personnel would receive
project-financed training formulated jointly by BAP and the ED.
Extension and Research
4.05      INIPA and UNA would collaborate closely with the PD in implementing
the extension and research components of the project. Their respective roles
are being defined in a tripartite agreement with INADE (para 4.10). INIPA
would establish a separate regional office (CIPA XIX) for the Central Selva,
which would be staffed largely under the project and would have
responsibility for the extension program. It would also have principal
responsibility, in collaboration with UNA, for carrying out training, which
would be a key part of the strategy to integrate research and extension.
This training would satisfy specific project needs not covered by the INIPA
loan (2150-PE) and would be planned by PEPP and CIPA XIX with assistance of
expertise available under the INIPA loan. UNA would implement the design and
testing of improved agricultural technology, utilizing its existing stations
in the project area at Satipo (Santa Teresa) and San Ramon (La Genova). At
Santa Teresa, the expanded program would utilize some of the improvements
being made under the recently effective Bank loan (2208-PE) for the Peru
Higher Agricultural Education Project. INIPA would have main responsibility
for off-station trials and demonstration plots, in collaboration with the
farmers and the UNA research staff.
Forestry
4.06      The three institutions responsible for executing the forestry
component are: INFOR, DGFF and the Forestry Police. The Forestry Faculty of
UNA with the collaboration of INFOR/CENFOR will plan, organize and execute
all forestry courses and seminars. Course/seminar outlines will include
objectives, costs, course content, and number and type of participants.
INFOR, through its CENFOR office in San Ramon, would execute the research,
extension and reforestation activities and would participate in training.
DGFF would be responsible for protection and production control activities
related to forest concessions and shipment of forest products within and
through the project area. DGFF would also participate in the elaboration of
management plans for the estimated 60,000 ha of virgin forest concessions in
order to better supervise harvesting and subsequent management. Each year
the executing agencies would prepare detailed annual working plans specifying
activities, personnel involved and detailed budgets for staff, equipment and
materials. Salaries and other incremental costs for project activities would
be transferred directly from PEPP to each executing agency. Each agency
would be required to keep separate accounts of project-related expenses and
periodically provide these to PEPP. Salaries would be standard salaries paid
by the agencies to their permanent staff. The agreements signed by INADE and



-27-
the executing agencies would specify that the incremental staff hired for
project-financed activities would be incorporated as permanent staff by the
end of the sixth year. The purchase of vehicles and equipment and the
construction of infrastructure would be carried out directly under PEPP
supervision for the respective agencies.
Roads and Civil Works
4.07      Road improvement works, the bridge, office and housing construction
would be subject to competitive bidding. The responsibility for inviting
bids for the construction of offices and housing and awarding contracts would
rest with the Project Directorate assisted by consultants financed under the
loan. In the case of feeder road improvement and bridge construction, the
bids would be invited by PEPP assisted as needed by the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC). The supervision of works would be carried out by
consultants to the PD Sub-directorate for Roads and Buildings.
Land Titling
4.08      Titling was initiated in the area during 1983 with funds provided
under the Eighth Highway Loan and would be accelerated in 1984 when the
proposed loan becomes available. The existing convenio between PEPP and the
Ministry of Agriculture, provides for a coordinated approach to the whole
titling process for native communities and individual holdings. The LT
Sub-directorate (para 4.02 b) has two units to carry out this work: (1) the
Cadastre Unit which has responsibility for photo interpretation, listing of
farmers with land rights, mapping of parcel boundaries and sketching parcel
plans; and (2) the Titling Unit with responsibility for registering and
surveying native communities, revocation of titles and agrarian reform
contracts which are no longer legal, land classification and issuance of
titles. These units are supported by administrative and legal staff.
The final step, for both native communities and individuals, is registration
of titles with the Ministry of Justice for which funding would be provided to
help establish a land registry office in La Merced with a branch office in
Satipo. PEPP would negotiate an agreement for establishment of this office
with the Ministry of Justice.
Native Communities
4.09      Implementation of the measures to assist the native communities
would be the responsibility of each of the entities participating in the
project. Coordination of these support activities would be the direct
responsibility of the Sub-director for FPS who would also manage directly the
native communities component described in paragraph 3.14 and Table 9.
Agreements with Implementing Agencies
4.10      Although the PEPP Executive Directorate and its Project Directorate
Chanchamayo-Satipo are fully responsible for all aspects of project
implementation, overall coordination of the project would be facilitated by
agreements which INADE would enter into with other institutions, some of
which are legally autonomous. For these, specific agreements satisfactory to
the Bank would be made with regard to:



-28-
(a)   Farm Development Cred't:  an agreement with BAP on provision
of credit (para 3.05 and 4.04);
(b)   Agricultural Research and Extension:  a tripartite agreement
with INIPA and UNA (para 4.05);
(c)   Forestry:  an agreement with INFOR (para 3.09).
Execution of the above agreements would be conditions of effectiveness for
the loan (para 7.02).
Accounts and Auditing
4.11      The PD has its own budgeting and accounting facilities subject to
PEPP's own internal audit. The PD would maintain separate records to
reflect, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, its
operations and financial conditions, reflecting the individual components of
the project and incorporating the credit component to be executed by BAP.
BAP also has adequate accounting and auditing arrangements. At negotiations,
assurances would be obtained that: (a) the annual project accounts,
including the working fund and special accounts, would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, whose reports would be of such
scope and in such detail as to include in their comments:  (i) the accuracy
of statements of expenditures submitted to the Bank for reimbursement; and
(ii) such other information as the Bank may reasonably request; and (b)
copies of PD's audited accounts and auditors' reports (including the long
form report or a management letter with comments on aspects of internal
control) would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each
financial year. A copy of the annual audited accounts of BAP showing
separately the credit component of the project would also be submitted to the
Bank.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.12      A small monitoring and evaluation unit within the PE
Sub-directorate would plan and coordinate with the executing agencies
(particularly INIPA, UNA, INFOR and BAP) the systematic collection of data on
project progress and impact. This unit would consist of professionals in
agriculture, statistics, economics and sociology/anthropology, who would
collect and analyze information that would provide a basis for decision and
prompt action by executing units as well as a basis for annual planning and
budgeting. If necessary, random sample surveys would be conducted to obtain
data on crop yields, production and farm income. Indicators (Annex 1)
established prior to project initiation would be adjusted during subsequent
annual planning exercises.
4.13      The evaluation activities would focus on in-depth measurement of
impact on production, natural environment, personal income and general
welfare of the individual families and native communities that the project
intends to assist. The major evaluation work would include: a mid-term
review of program execution and impact to be carried out during year 3 and a
completion study and analysis to be carried out in year 6. The unit may also
carry out or contract special ad hoc studies on problems that arise during



-29-
implementation.  To assess the effects of project action in the native
communities, an information file would be established for each community
showiLg social and physical characteristics, project activities, and effects
on the community. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that an M&E unit
satisfactory to the Bank would be established not later than six months after
signing of the Loan Agreement (para 7.01).
4.14      Annual progress reports would be submitted to the Bank no later
than 90 days after the end of each year. These reports would present project
performance and disbursements by component and explain any significant
deviations from objectives. The mid-term review and the completion report
would be prepared and sent to the Bank within six months after the end of the
third and sixth years, respectively. Assurances that the above reporting
procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations (para 7.01).
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, YIELDS, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production and Yields
5.01      Incremental production under the project would result, on the one
hand, from rehabilitated and expanded perennial and annual crop plantings
financed through project-provided credit and, on the other, from an increase
in average yields of perennial and annual crops due to the extension
package. The increase in yield, expected to be achieved through the
intensified extension and research efforts, will come from better pruning,
fertilization and disease and insect control in coffee, improved grafting
disease and insect control in coffee, improved grafting techniques and
disease control in citrus and avocado, better fertilization and cultivation
practices for papaya and banana, and improved planting material and
management for pineapple. Better management, fertilization and planting
material is also expected to raise yield levels in maize and yuca. The yield
levels expected to be achieved and the incremental production are as follows:
Incremental Production at Full Development
Area (ha)       Yields at FD   Years to  Annual Incre. Prod.
w/o   with      w/o     with      full    Volume
Crops         Proj  Proj      Proj    Proj      Devt      (mt)    S/.m  US$m
mt/ha   mt/ha
Coffee      14,000  14,000    0.4       0.7        9      4,200   7,938  5.3
Citrus       1,200   3,000   10.0    14.0         16     30,000   2,820  1.9
Avocados       240      800    4.0      6.0       12      3,840      422  0.3
Pineapples    400   1,000   12.0    16.0          12     11,200      885  0.6
Papayas        720   1,800    4.0       6,0       10      7,920   1,782  1.2
Bananas      3,900   3,900    6.0       8.0       10     19,500   2,340  1.6
Maize        2,750   5,500    1.7       2.0        7      6,325   1,423  0.9
Yuca           800   1,600    7.0       9.0        8      8,800      792  0.5
Total                                                         18,402 12.3



-30-
5.02      Incremental production estimates assume that the present situation
reflects the future without-project case and that there would be no change in
total production over the project development period if project investments
were not made. The justification for this position is that although the area
under crop is likely to expand somewhat even if project investments are not
made, the following serious constraints would tend to reduce production per
hectare: (a) the inability to market products effectively due to poor feeder
roads, hence post-harvest losses; (b) lack of technical assistance for
disease control and sound soil conservation and fertilization programs,
likely causing average yields per hectare to decline over time, as is already
the case for coffee; and (c) lack of long-term credit for sufficient
investments in on-farm development, thereby further slowing the
intensification process. In the case of coffee, at full development (year 9)
incremental production would reach about 4,200 tons (parchment coffee) or 35%
more than the current (1982) level of production (12,160 tons) in the area.
This increase in production, however, would only compensate the fall in
production that has taken place in the area since 1978 as a result of leaf
rust (first noticed in the area in 1979).
5.03      As shown below, the incremental incomes of project beneficiaries
are considered sufficient to provide an incentive to participate in the
on-farm development works and other project programs. Results are based on
financial prices shown in Table 16 and farm models shown in Tables 17 to 25,
which are considered representative, bearing in mind that the actual
investment mix may vary.
Full Development Farm Family Income
Income
Farm Type                       Without Project         With Project
 ------------- (US$)
Coffee                                2,364               4,925
Citrus                                1,277               4,110
Avocado                                 534                1,718
Pineapple                               936               2,774
5.04      Preliminary estimates would indicate that increased output of sawn
timber would be about 180,000 m3 per year, valued at S/. 3,150 million
(US$2.1 million) per annum at current prices.
Marketing
5.05      Coffee production is largely exported.  Peru has an export quota
within the framework of the International Coffee Agreement. The Peruvian
quota for 1982/83 was 40,740 tons, which was a reduction of 2,900 tons with
regard to 1981. The reduction has been partly the result of the country's
inability to satisfy the ICO Council that it would be in a position to meet
a greater export quota due to the declining trend shown by its production



-31-
after 1978.  The additional export coffee which would be generated annually
by the project at full development (year 9) represents no more than 8% of
Peru's 1982-83 quota. Since Peru's export quota can be expected to increase
by about 1.3% per annum in line with expected growth in world demand, this
production should not create surplus coffee for Peru. Government has no
other plans to expand coffee production.
5.06      The increased fruit production would be absorbed primarily by the
Lima market. Projections of that market's demand for fresh fruits from the
project area are summarized below:
Annual Project        Total                    Lima Market:
Increment at        Production           Demand for Fresh Fruit from
full          in Project Area            the Project Area
Fruit         Development       with Increment        Low            High
Projection 1/ Projection 2/
(tons)
Bananas         19,500              46,500              52,600           63,100
Citrus          30,000              79,240             102,000         122,000
Pineapples      11,200              26,800              25,100          25,100
Avocados         3,840              12,740              13,900           16,700
Papayas          7,920              13,920              40,600          40,600
1/  Assuming that the project area's share of the Lima market would remain
the same.
2/  Assuming that the low projection volumes would increase by 20%, with the
exception of pineapples and papaya which already have a high share of the
Lima market.
Source: FAO/CP IBRD Report No. 28/83 CP PER 14, April 23, 1983.
Only pineapples would show a small surplus over the projected size of the
fresh market in Lima, but existing unsatisfied demand for pineapple for
processing by the local plant, which is at present about 2,500 tons, would
absorb that surplus.
Prices
5.07      Financial prices used in projections are based on current farmgate
prices. In the case of coffee, farmgate prices are fixed by coffee
cooperatives according to the export price, less marketing expenses and
transport costs between the production area and the port of Callao. The
coffee price used for economic analysis is the World Bank forecast price
expressed in constant 1983 values, less processing, shipping and handling
charges to convert it to a farmgate basis. For all other crops, farmgate
prices are determined entirely by market forces and current farmgate prices,
which are assumed to remain constant in real terms, have been used
(Table 16).



-32-
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.01      The project's main direct benefit would be the expanded
agricultural production in the area. Of the estimated total increase in
production value of US$12.3 million annually at full development (in constant
1983 dollars), 46% would be from fruits, 43% from coffee and 11% from food
crops. These benefits would accrue to farmers expected to obtain credit and
follow extension advise successfully, estimated at just over one quarter of
the total farmer population.
6.02      Additional indirect benefits, however, would be considerable.
First, road improvement would not just benefit the direct project
beneficiaries but the entire area population; in addition, the increase in
logging and sawmilling activities in. the private sector resulting from better
access, is estimated to provide additional employment to 450 people. Second,
project-sponsored forestry protection and replanting of degraded lands would
improve soil and water conservation and be beneficial in environmental
terms. Third, the accelerated land titling would reduce tensions among
settlers and between settlers and native communities, and would provide
increased cultivation incentives as well as a firm legal basis for investment
credit. Fourth, the native communities component, which would include
elements of all the above plus certain social services, would specifically
benefit the least developed part of the population and increase their
participation in the economy. Finally, agricultural development would
contribute to a better utilization of the labor force, as it would generate
an estimated 3,300 man-years of on-farm employment for family labor which
otherwise would remain idle or move to the cities in search of off-farm
employment opportunities.
Economic Rate of Return
6.03      The economic rate of return has been estimated at about 18.6%
(Table 26) and is based only on quantifiable benefits from crop and forest
production. Additional secondary benefits were not included. The following
assumptions were used in the analysis: (a) the progressive development of
the various crops followed projections in the respective farm models and
investment plans; (b) prices for coffee were calculated as indicated in para
5.07, both family and unskilled labor was costed at the full market price;
other production costs were priced according to local market conditions on
the grounds that this best reflects opportunity costs, given the market
structure and current Government pricing policies; (c) the period of analysis
was 20 years; (d) the exchange rate used was S/.2,070 = US$1.0 which is
considered to reflect reasonably well the present value of the Sol; and
(e) calculation of the economic rate of return includes costs of all civil
works, buildings and related infrastructure required for project
implementation. Also included are costs of research, extension, marketing,
land titling and the production-related elements of the forestry
component, consultant services, training, machinery and equipment for civil
works, the maintenance program for roads and physical contingencies.



-33-
6.04      Project costs were lagged by one year to simulate the effect of
delays in project implementation. This reduces the rate of return to 14.6
percent. A sensitivity analysis to test the impact of various changes in
costs and benefits is shown in Table 26.
6.05      In addition to the overall assessment of project benefits, an
analysis was made of the economic feasibility of each feeder road (or group
of interdependent feeder roads) included in the project. This analysis, with
the exception of the feeder roads in La Florida Cooperative area which were
analyzed separately as a system to take into account the impact of
construction of the Yurinaki bridge, (para 6.06) was made utilizing
simplified Method III of the Bank's Rural Roads Screening and Simplified
Economic Appraisal Procedures (April 1983). For each road's area of
influence, agricultural value added with and without the project was compared
to total project costs associated with that area:  road investment and
maintenance costs, on-farm agricultural investment, and the imputed value of
other project costs (marketing, extension, research, land titling, training
and project unit). A total of about 660 km of roads were evaluated of which
427 were found to be economically justified. Table 27 gives details of the
economic analysis of the roads to be included in the first year program, and
Table 29 sumrmarizes the economic rate of return for each road. The economic
rates of return vary from 11% to greater than 18%. These rates of return
should be considered only indicative as the methods used to distribute
benefits along the project roads were very approximate. However, the
estimates are considered to be conservative because benefits to
non-agricultural traffic were not quantified.
6.06      A separate analysis was made of the roads in the La Florida
Cooperative area because these are associated with the construction of the
bridge over the Yurinaki River. First, the construction and operating costs
of the bridge and various alternatives (improved ferry service; construction
of a new road link to an existing bridge) were compared. This analysis
concluded that the bri'dge alternative was the most cost-effective solution to
providing access to this area. An economic analysis of the total investments
planned for the La Florida Cooperative area as a.whole was then made.
Quantified benefits included those derived from additional agricultural value
added with the project. In addition, benefits from reduced vehicle operating
costs for the transport of agricultural produce from farms which would have
the same production with and without the project and for forestry trucks were
quantified. Vehicle operating cost savings were mainly derived from distance
savings, as trucks avoided a long alternative route to the market, and from
savings derived from improved road surface conditions with the project.
Vehicle operating cost benefits for normal and generated light vehicle and
bus traffic were also quantified. The investments in the La Florida
Cooperative area are estimated to have an economic rate of return of 14%
(Table 28).



-34-
Project Risk
6.07      The risk that technical conditions for agricultural development
would not be met, is considered low. The Chanchamayo-Satipo area is already
settled, agroclimatic conditions are adequate for the proposed agricultural
development, and its population is enterprising, as shown by the relatively
high levels of technology achieved by some farmers despite total lack of
support services, and the extension technology proposed is largely proven.
Frequent risks with projects of this nature are institutional and financial,
as delayed implementation may result from the project authorities
difficulties to coordinate and supervise the work of the various
implementation agencies, as well as from difficulties to assign sufficient
counterpart funds to the project. However, PEPP has implementation
experience with similar activities in other areas (para 2.35) and the
present Government has an often expressed priority commitment to the
development of the Ceja de Selva area, and has expressed this in practice by
consistently allocating adequate budget funds to such activities. Other
problems which have been considered in the design of the project are: (a)
continued adverse effect on the environment from frontier development, and
(b) friction between the settler population and native communities caused by
land conflicts. Accordingly, the project includes components to minimize
these risks as well as enough flexibility for the Project Directorate to
accommodate needed changes during implementation.
Environmental Impact
6.08      Rational land use would be encouraged through the basic strategy
proposed for on-farm development; emphasis would be on increasing
productivity of existing cultivated areas, rather than on expanding such
areas through further deforestation. The proposed logging plan for virgin
forest is based on selective felling with relatively little disturbance of
the forest and virtually no heavy equipment is used.  Recovery of the forest
is rapid so that this operation is not considered to be environmentally
destructive. The project would also strengthen the forestry district and the
forest police, enabling them to enforce prevailing legislation on timber
extraction and reforestation. An effective agricultural extension service
would inform farmers on the rational use of fertilizers, plant protection
chemicals and herbicides, stressing safety in application and handling. This
would minimize contamination of natural water resources. Construction of
domestic water supply systems and wells under the native communities
component would improve sanitary conditions and thereby help to prevent
uncontrolled spread of disease. Detailed discussions of environmental impact
and native communities are presented in separate working papers in the
project file (Annex 2).
VII SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   Government would freeze the issuance of new forest
exploration concessions in the proposed forest reserve areas



-35-
adjacent to the main project area (see map) until studies
classifying these forest reserves into areas of production
and protection are completed (para 3.09);
(b)   a program of action for road maintenance, including budget
requirements, would be furnished to the Bank for comment not
later than July 31, 1985 and updated annually thereafter, and
a program for transfer of the maintenance units to
appropriate local authorities would be presented to the Bank
for comments not later than March 31, 1988 and made effective
no later than March 31, 1989 (para 3.12);
(c)   provisions for procurement in paragraphs 3.19 through 3.22
would be followed;
(d)   disbursement would be as specified in paragraphs 3.23 through
through 3.26
(e)   the Executive Directorate would continue to maintain a
liaison office in Lima (para 4.01);
(f)   any replacements for the Executive Director or the Project
Director would have qualifications satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.03);
(g)   auditing would be carried out as specified in paragraph 4.11;
(h)   a monitoring and evaluation unit satisfactory to the Bank
would be established within six months after signing of the
Loan Agreement (para 4.13); and
(i)   annual progress reports would be sent to the Bank no later
than 90 days after the end of each year and the mid-term
review and completion report would be sent to the Bank within
six months after the end of the third and sixth years,
respectively (para 4.14).
7.02      The conditions of loan effectiveness would be that INADE has
entered into agreements satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.10) with regard to:
(a) BAP on provision of credit;
(b) INIPA and UNA for extension and research;
(c) INFOR for forestry.
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for a loan of US$40.0 million for a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
February 23, 1984



-36-                            ANNEX 1
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Indicators for
Objectives                       Key Semi-Annual Indicators          Ongoing Evaluations
Credit
Increase long-term credit        No. of loan applications            Unit cost data
Improve loan processing          No. & amount of loans               Demand for credit
Data on types of borrowers         Repayment record
Extension
Improve outreach &               Farm level field staff              Changes in area and
effectiveness                                                        productivity by crops
Introduce new technology         No. & location of offices           No. of farmers adopting
new methods by size
Increase production              No. demonstration plots              category
No. of farmers assisted            Participation of native
directly through groups            communities
& individually
Cost per farmer assisted
Research
Select better varieties          No. and type of experiments         Quality of research
and develop better               initiated and concluded
cultural practices                                                  Relevance of experiments
No. of field days &                  to small farmers
Develop improved soil             attendance
management for a                                                    Proven utility at the farm
sustainable agriculture         Training courses                     level of research findings
No. of staff contracted
Forestry
Reforest 4,000 ha                No. of seedlings produced by        Unit cost data
nursery and species
Number and kind of
Survival rate                       participants
Hectares planted by lo-
cation and species



-37-
Indicators for
Objectives                        Key Semi-Annual Indicators          Ongoing Evaluations
Establish forest reserve          Hectares protection forests         Trends in land clearing
zones & protect 200,000 ha        established                         and timber removal as
program progresses
Hectares forest reserve
zones established
Number of patrols/visits
realized in forest areas
annually
Logging concessions granted
and operating
Area with forest management
plans
Expand ongoing INFOR/GTZ          No. and description of              Evaluation of research
forestry research                 experiments and number              results and new species
effectively carried out             introduced for planting,
per hectare yields of
wood, etc
Create a forestry con-            Number of extension activities
servation mentality               realized:  meetings with
among the project area            native communities, coope-
population                        ratives, farmers groups,
urban centers; field trips
with local authorities;
films and slide shows pro-
duced and shown
Training                          Number of events and parti-
cipants: forestry police
course; environmental con-
servation seminars; selvi-
culture and nursery manage-
ment; forestry extension
course; M.S. fellowship
Land Titling
Provide security of tenure        No. titles & ha in process          Effects of titling on long-
by titling:                                                           term improvements on
15,000 small farmers             No. of titles & ha completed          small farms and native
160 native communities                                                 communities
Native Communities
Provide special assistance        No.of staff in field                Impact on health and
in applied technology &                                               employment
potable water                   No. of wells completed
No. of families participating



-38-
Indicators for
Objectives                      Key Semi-Annual Indicators            Ongoing Evaluation
Access Roads
Provide all weather access      Km of road with:                      Quality of access (by Km)
to main farming areas by           engineering designs ready,
improving existing roads           improvement initiated              Farmers benefitted
construction completed
Construction cost/km                 Quality of maintenance
Km routine maintenance:              Km all weather access
in last month                        provided
in last six months
No. of districts with
trained foreman
Km of improved road in good,         Maintenance cost/km
fair or deteriorating
condition
Equipment availability,              Man days/km by district
utilization                          labor
Output and Income
Increase production and         Area by crop                          Trends in productivity
improve family income           Yield by crop                         Trends in family income
Net family income                      for individual farmers
and native communities



-39-
Annex 2
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.        Evaluacion e inventario forestal de los recursos forestales de La
Merced-Satipo. Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina,
Departamento de Manejo Forestal. Lima, 1982.
2.        FAO/IBRD CP Preparation Report No. 28/83 CP PER 14, dated April 22,
1983.
3.        Working Paper:  Aspectos Ambientales del Proyecto de Desarrollo
Rural Chanchamayo-Satipo. Marc Dourojeanni, June, 1983
(Consultant).
4.        Working Paper:  Forestry Component of the Chanchamayo-Satipo Rural
Development Project. W. D. Beattie, August, 1983. LAC Forestry
Specialist.
5.        Working Paper:  Land Titling Component of the Chanchamayo-Satipo
Rural Development Project, S. Romanoff, July 1983 (Consultant).
6.        Working Paper:  Native Communities Chanchamayo-Satipo Rural
Development Project, S. Romanoff, July, 1983 (Consultant).



-40-                                Table 1
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit - Selva Area - Nominal and Effective Rates - BAP
Interest Rates (%)
Purpose                                        Nominal         Effective
Short Term (Maximum 24 months)
Crop Loans - Less than SI. 20 million         46.5             46.5
Crop Loans - More than S/. 20 million         56.0             56.0
Other Purposes                                62.0             73.4  1/
Marketing                                     56.0             65.1  1/
Long Term
Livestock and Pasture, Irrig. Equip.          50.5             50.5
Tractors, Implements, Irrigation and
Land Improvement,  Perm. Crops             57.0            57.0
Other Purposes                                63.0             63.0
1/ Interest collected each quarter in advance.



-41-
rTable 2
PERU
CHANCHAATYO - SATIP0 RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit - Detailed Cost
(PU NO)
Parameters
Quantit;                                            Base Costs                         Phw.
----------------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------------------------- Cant, For,   Gross   Suaaard
Uhnit    1984 1985 1984 1987 1988 1989 Total Cost  1984   1985    1984    1987    1988    1989    Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. INEFSTMfENT COSTS
A. LON6-TERN CREDIT
LONG-TERN                              -61,2 29735.9 3'773.4 49105.0 1,957.6   613.0 13,946.2  0.05   0.4                                                0.16      EQ
Sub-Total LONG-TERN CREDIT                                                         761,2 29735,9 3,773.4 4,105,0 1,957.6   613.0 13,946,2
B  VEHICLES AND EQUIPifNT
SHLL 41D CAR                           2    2    1    2    2    1    10   10   20.0    20.0    10.0    20.0    20.0    10.0    100.0  0,05   0.6          0.4      VEH
SuknTotal JFHCICES AN  EQUIPMENT                                                   20.0    20.0    10.0   20.0    20.0    10.0    100.0
Total INVESTKENT COSTS                                                                781,2 2,755.9 3,783.4 4,125.0 1,977.6   623,0 14,046,2
IT. RECURRENT COSTS
.__ _ _ ____
A. SHRT-TERM CREDIT
SHORT-TERN CREDIT                                                              61.5   198,3   300,7   465,7   385,6   514.4  1t26,2         0     0        0     OPO
Sqb-Tot;1 SHORT-TFRN CREDIT                                                        61.5   198.3   300.7   465.7   385.6   514.4  1,926.2
B. STAFF
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT     MAN YFAR      2    4    5    5    5    5    26  6.4  12,8    25.6    32.0    32.0    32,0    32.0    166.4          0     0        0     SAL
Sub-Total STAFF                                                                    12.8    25.6    32.0    32.0   32.0    32,0    166,4
Cr OPERATING COSTS
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS  VEHICLE      2    4    5    5    5    5    26    3    6.0    12.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15,0        78,0      0   0.3      0.5     OPV
TRAINING                              -    -    -    -    -    -      -         4,0      4.0     1.3      1,3     1.3       -     12.0      0     0        0     TR6
Sub-Total OPERATING COSTS                                                          10.0    16.0   16.3    16.3    16.3    15.0       90.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                  84.3   239.9   349,1   514.0   433.9  561,4  2P182.6
===== :===== =:==== ======= ======= ======= ==:====.
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                   865.5 299 5.8 4P132.5 4i639,0 2.411,6 1,184.4 16,228,8
October 27f 1983 14134



-42-                                         ~~~~~~~~Table  3
PERUl
COMC80YO - SATIPS RURAL DIEVELOPNOT PROJECT
Ao;ricultural Extension - Detailed Cost
1WS M00)
Paraaaters
Goantits                                  R~~~~~~~~~           ~           ~~~ats Costs  Pta, 
----- --------------- ------Uit--------------------------                                         Cont. For.   Gross   Snmars
Unlit       1904   198   1984  1987  1988 1989 Total  Cost  1984   198    1986   1987   1988   1999  Total   Rate  Exeh. Tax Rawe Accoort
T1IH"FTNINT CISTSS
ABRLILOTGSS
SOTIFO! SAN MARTIN AND P40.A SILVA              02         1,100  1,100       -      -    -     -2,200  0.2  220.0  220.0            -       -       -       - 440.0  0.15  0.35             0       CA
FXT: WORKER HOUSES 12                           92           3.34    236   576       -     -    -1,24B  5.2   47,2   47~2  115~2             -       -       - 249.6  0.15  0,35              5       CO
SAN 90800. AND PICH0A4I  /0                     M2         1,100  1,t0S 0          -                2,200 004   440    44.0          -                             Belo 8.   0.15  0235       0      Cl
,ub-T,.;,41 ATILDINGS                                                                                               331,2  321,2  115.2         -       -            777,6
S. VEHICLES /t
FIlE-UF                                                         8      4      I      9    4    1       27 12~4   99.2   49,6   12.4  J1116   49.6   12,4   324.8  9,05   0.6               0.4      VD2
SNALL.4 4O CA                                                   A    - -                          4  10  400--    -                    -    -    - 40,0 0,85  0.a    0.4   VD0
AOTDRCUC:LES                                                            7    12      7    7   12       52 1.6/   11.7   11.7   20.0   11.7   11.7   20.0    96,?  0.05   0,6               0.4      YEN
S.0-Total VEHICLES /c                                                                                               150.9   61.3   3224  i23.2   61.3   32,4   461.5
C FURNITURE AN0 EGUIPHE.N.T
FURNITURE AND OFFICE E9IPIFEAT                                                                                    10.0   10.5                -               -    21.3  0.05   0,8        0,16       EQ
TFFti$F E4UIT1NE0T-20                                                                                                      3.8       -       -       -       -     6.8  0,05   0.8        0.16       Ea
.ALIPIS-VISUAL EGIPIFENT9.329.2  0,05   0.8                                                                                                                                            0,16       8
TflQ1  ANT IOPLEAHNTS                                                                                              30O    3,0    0.7    0.7          -       -     7.3  0.05   8,8        0,16       El
L.A-Total FURNITURE AND E20IIFMNET                                                                                   26.2   37,3    5.7    0.7          -       -    44.8
otool INUUfSTNT0T COSTS                                                                                                 500.3  409.7  148.2  122.9   61.3   32.4 1,282,9
TI, RECURRENT COSTS
ASTAFF
JETE DE ZIONA                              KAN TEAR           2       2      2     2     2    2       120i,33    16.7   16.7   16.7   16.7   16,7   16,7   100.0           0      0         0      SML
SUPERVISOR                                 MAN 1969           4       4      4      4    4    4       24 6,93   27,7   27:7   27~7   27,7   27,7   27,7   166.4            I      0         0      SM.
SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALIST                  MAN TEAR          10      15    10    10   10   10         60 6.93   69.3   69.3   69.2   69.2   69.2   69.3   436.8            0      0O        0      SAL
02T005050 AORKER                           09N YEAR           7      14    26    26   26   26    125 4,87   341   68.1  126.5  126.2  124.2  126.5   600.2                 0      0         0      SAL
SECRETARIES                                00  YEAR           4       A      8      0    0    0       N4  2.8   11.2   22.4   22.4   22,4   22.4   72,4   123.2            0      8         0      SN.
CREDIT PROMPTERS                           MAN TEAR           4       4      4      4    4    -       20 5,53   22.1   72:1  7221   22.1   22,1             -   110.7      8      0         0      SML
DRIVERS                                    ONAYEAR            6      12    12    12   12   12         6623,47   20.8   41.6   41.6   41.6   41,6   43.6   278.8            0      0         0      SML
NATIVE C040LNITIES ASSISTANT               MM6  TEAR          4       6      6      6    6    6       34 2.07    9,3   12.4   12.4   12.4   12.4   12,4    70.3            0      0         0      SM.
WATCHMEN                                   444 YEAR8                  5      5      5    5    5       30 2.07   10.3   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   10,3    62.0            0      0         0      SM.
Suji-T.,TsI STAFF                                                                                                  220.5  298.7  349.1  349.1  349.1  327.8 1,88.7
0.18NI6104
LOCAL TRAININ6                            PARTICIPANT        50      50    10    50   50   SO    300 0.27   13.3   12.3   13.3   13,2   13,3   13.3    88.0                0      0         4      TEE
NATIONAL TEAINING  /d                     PARTICIPANT         4       4      4      4    4    4       24 0,47    1.9    1;9    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    11.2            0      6         8      TES
YISITIMS INSTRUCTORS  Ie                  PARTICIPMI5         3       3      2      2    3    3       1 00.47     1t4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1,4    1.4          8.4      0      0         0      TRE
NATIVE CDSNETTY T041I1IN0  /f             PARTUCIPANT         5       5      5      -    -    -       12 0,47    2.3    2.3    2.3          -       -       -     7.0      0      0         8      088
FARMERS TRAINING 30087 COURSES  Ig    PARTICIPANT           250    254   250   150    -    -         98  0.01    1.7    1.?    1.7    1.0           -       -     6.8      0      H         A      TR$
S.Al-Totol T8900140                                                                                                 20.6   20.6   20.6   17.4   16.4   16.6   112.6
C, SPERATINOE COSTS
PICR-UP                                  VEHICLE VEARA        8      12    13    24   14   14         75 3,223  29.9   44.0   48.5   52.3   52.3   52.3   288.0            0   0.3        0.5      WV0
MOTORCYCLE                               VEHICLE TEAR        10      20    22    26   26   26    131 0.53    5.3   10.7   12.3   13.9   13.9   13.9    69.9                0   8.3        0.5      WV8
SMALL 4 AD                               VEHICLE TEAR         4       4      4      4    4    -       20    3   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0            -    60.0      0   0.3        0.5      am9
801)0100 MAINTENA0CE  IhA-                                                                                          -   12.2   26.4   26.4   24.4   26.4   118.8           8  0.15          0      005
OFFICE EOPE0OITORES                                                                                              1 7.9   24.0    1.3   29.3   29,3   29.3   131.3          0  0.15          I      IOP
TRATTAi ESPEASES                                                                                                 24.3   33.    44.9   44.9   44.9   44,9   227.2           I      0         0      an0
DIEMNHSTRATION KATERIALS  !i                                                                                      2.6    5.2    9.1    9.1    8.1    9,1    44.3           4  0.15          0      WC8
Ott-Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                                           92.1  142.9  154.6  307.9  187,9  175.9   941.4
ToWLI RECURRFOT COSTS                                                                                                   323.2  454.3  5243  554,7  553.7  519.5 2r939.7
ToTL  BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                    041.5  844.0  472.4  678.4  615,0  551,9 4t223.4
Ia  IN VILLAGES' 48 02 EA
IA'  REHABILITATION 301Y
/t  IOCLODES REPLACEMENT AFTER 2 Y8S
14  T70 000TH COURSES
/e  15 DAY VISITS F808 INIPA STAFF
/I  FOR EXT1ENSION 6880080
/A  OKE NWEE  COllE
10  52 OF CONSTRUICTION COOT
/i  SEERS, FERTILIZERS, PFSTICIDES.  ETC
OcTober 27, 1993 W742



I C
K-
vl ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ LC |oooooo oW ooC                                                olO u,moooootu                      |
IB   oI  _      .    IC  _ CoCoCom  o     C0 o _ oI   owl   o 1 il   C O   I C  CO   CO    CO  C    Cx  I Coo    >X 11011l  ICr 
1111               IIII0lIIlII;    'I'l                      Nob7      CCC   o0000    C IC 110t11!  
* CI                                 !0!'                                                ''i ''! 0! -    CC!>   ,-o , ,    ei  i^!! j
~~~ |  _    '~~~~~~I       I                I   'I             I                           I  -  1   I  II *  
o  I ~~~~1111  o1  mI oI  r                    0  z            lII 001  11r0 1  U lI B rr0 oO IC I    O  I Ca  CCC   00r0   01 C  C II
i u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iC                                                        c-l!                     ,r   rj    r|r_g rr'    0    0 OUe ^ lC;. |ng>. r lg?~ 
_ fI l                                       _;S_r                                    sI,SbIII  I    I  Ii  I |a 
 ~~~~~ClC   j  rI 7C                          I I 10   11CI CI               010  C      CC0001I   CI
Q  c  ti ro !i  | + 8| | |-  .1 --   I11  . II                         -  1                .        1' 1h1 11 1i
3i!! ~ ~~~~~~ ~  'I ' '1-11111lI    III                                                                  i 
*~~~~~~                                                                                           ~ ~~~~~ I  I  , Ie  j11
-                       OCCOO00oCC                                                                                 ^ C 
COs C   loll
Z1000001                       C jC                        01111e1111i051
(II~   C  s_    Is 
~~~~iv  !           '4 EXtG          -       Vj-j
0~~~~ IlIlIll                                                I                101       C 1   1   1111   I1.1    1Sv               m2    !,
v01         yV-8>=2   S    ,lV        v..-i.                                                                    I          
lOl        I . I)    11110   1111                 I      B         IC    v     111!  o  1           !
Ii~~~~~~ lol  I ! I  1 1001I I           011                        C   111



-44-                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Table 5
0048848Y1  - 1A11P8 4940. OM ~1648  4840(0
Forestry - Detailed Co-t
Dm CF't~ ~ ~     Cot Fr,Crsslaa,
1460~      1984  1985   1986   19197   19M     1989  Iotal  Unit Cost  198    t85   1986   197   1988   198   Total   8aR.              ot.    Ia.,.T   Rate   ooo'-t
rtEL,  16'00E  14'I   'a                            2902                  I       I                              2        68       -   680   68.0         -               - '3620  10 150,35              0 
1863 0816888148 CEN'48  18117  '6      2422NI        1I                                                      30   30.0                                       -    30.0  2~11   0.35         C       06
D282922' OFCE8119FF   c                             JN1T            -     1       -       -      -               1         68      - 68.3          -      -       -8 t0  7.15  0:31                       C       CR
POLICE     521                1812 dLII                             2     2       2       -      -       -       6         30   60,0   00.0   60.3         -                  180.03,15  0.35             C        W
NURSERIES ;OFFICEC 4                                UIT            -      1       1      -       -       -      2          4       -     4.0    4,0       -       -                0. .1I.315            2      CR
Nt5ER309  82168E7 '1                                 41            -      1       2      -                                  2      -     2,0    4.0       -       -       -     6.0  CII5  0,35           C      Cm
92.. .  I4!l 298                                                                                                              90.2  232.0  116.0        -       -       - 428,0
60323849TE88                                        UN11            --                - -Io                                        -      .                                     6.0  0.31   3.6    0l1            El
FuILl O-7C03                                        I*11            -     I       1I                             2          3       -    3.0   320         -      -       -      6.0  0.32   30,       2~16       El
315T9ICT 6F1ICE3                                   'U812T                 I       -       -      -       -       1          3      -     3.0       -                             3  - 1.   1.03   0.8  0.16      Cg
FOL ICE P00.T6                                      '142T              2          2       -              -1    2.3    2.0    2.0                          -                      6,   0.02   Cl8       0.16      03
495882E9 rOFFICE'                                   24' RI`-                                     -         -                             1.0    1,2       -                     2.0  2,35   2.8        0.16      EO
81400.8281  '~~~~~'068'  o             1422UNI        -      1       2      -                                 3       -     3,3    603       -               -      0.  2.21   C.8       C.IV       CO
Eao?ot IP012884                                                                                                                2,0   68.0   12.C        -                     2.0
FI`Co-uF '3                                         112T               3          -                              6      12.4   37,2   32.2- -             -         -       -      - 2100    2,T       0.4      Viii
M0'D00IC19LF                                        I4TT          IC    CC.    Co        IC              -      40      1.6?   16.'   16,7   16.   016.7          -            66.27  3.05   0.6        0,4     ViiH
SRNL 4 WVC68                                        1440T           6     8       -      -       -       -      16        10   solo   80.0         -      -       --          160.0  0.31   25.6       2.4      liii
9180291600~ '.                                     '.91             -     1T   -                 -I-                   66.62       -   66.?        -      -       --           66.3  0.02   0.2         0.4     .0'
62-..  VE860102                                                                                                               133.B9  231.    16.7   10.7         -      - 16377
0j4685Mt O U0 4P0968'EPO6ATIO4                       09      5     0                                         I        0.28    4.0           --                                4,0  0.02       C         2     00
2RVNT8616                                            K82         1'0ICC3 40                                            0.21   62.0 2 .01.C-.410CC                                              C        2      000
Si-1-T,q1 NEW 1033140.   9 0A                                                                                                      66,2   62.0-.8.013 
T%!1 IN4"E5Tl64T 0501                                                                                                               231.6  482.2  164.7   I.                         0.
11. R4002440,P4T02979
8. 54438850.5
F816131681005E  .18898.0E8F16'  'I                                                                                             825 9 92.9   62.9   82.9   82,9   92.9   497.2           0      0               SA08
31919002 1681061  18FF,                                                                                                        931    93.3  6133   93,3   63.3   93.1   219.6           0      0               SAL8
880-1,.0' gm4 ARIES                                                                                                              116 1  136.1  126.3  126.0  176.1  176.1 1,056.8
831STRI E2'E48l4SCOJSE   'UNIT1                                    1     I                                      2        3'   27,0   33.0         -      -       -       -    74.0      0   .0           2     280
FORESTRY 033 'FLutE  ft.                           1412            1     I       1       I      1       1       6          8    8.0    0.0    8.3    8.3    8,0        8.0    48.0      3      I         0     T81
EKOMEW6  N191/C08842914  80 14 E InA               UN411           1     I       1       I      1       1       6         12   12.0   12.0   12,0   12,0   12.0   12   2.0 311                 0         0     241
51151C'4.1CR8814.389910  44A4A08042'               'MI11           1             1              I       -       3      6.62    6.?        -    6.?        -    6,?       -    20,0      0      0         0     242
41SCE18110  SHU1R  'MKS                            141T            1     1       1       1      0       1       6         IS   13.3   11.1   11.1   101,    10,0   10.0    60,0         I      0         0     T80
ART1.05COM M193:10-00C4#34C 8208Y                488!02            8-        -              -      -       -               2   16.                                   -  16.0      I      0         0     181
888!- 8D3ESTY9RESERCH04                              11            -       --                       --                            -   23.7   07,1   37.1   33,1   32.0   172,0          0      3         I     TR0
48T388459944444F169   98984014 rP                  '12             -       --                       --                                 19.2   32.5   32.5132.2   32.2   149.3           I      0.        0     780
.RAI291414     T290181291 481118409   STIIF'k85.2  109 9  106.3   99,6  106.3   99.0   611 3
C, 1WIr 041NT088( MD0 OP8RAT1ON
01E848TERS                                                                                                                      21 4    34    8.4    8.    89.4    8 4    33.4          35.115          2      380
191,8 1681003                                                                                                                  2,0    2.0    2.4    8.8    6.8    9.8    25.8           t  olls         2      080
DISTR1C' OF81098                                                                                                                  -    1.0    5.1    5.1    1,1    2.1    21.3          0  0.15          I     140
POLICE89828                                                                                                                     2,0    2.2  101.    15,0   15,1   15.1    62.0          0  0.11          0     180
8.0--,10".  16012  01ItF41W4840! 449 E169T''.*                                                                                     6,8   10.4   28,9   33.3   33.3   33.3   117.2
810-189t                                       38810L0 YF0R       3      6       6      6       6       6     33       3.33   11.2   22,4   22.4  32.4   22.4   22.4   1233.2           0   0.3       O'5      086
MATI1CYCLOS                                    VEHIC1.E0604R      13    20      80     40      40      80    180       0.13    1.3   10.7   16.0   21.3   21.3   21.3    96.0           0   3,3       0.5      600
80.t. CAR                                      YE41010Y5A0        8    16       16     16      16      14     88           I    Ila2  16,0   06.0   16.8   16,0   16,2    88.1          2   0.3       0.1      166
P44r03T2086918FA                                                   -     -               -      -  60108   I4-2.1   320    22.0   21,0   21,0   25.0   1137.1                           2   0.3       0.1      O60
b,k-Total VEW1rlLES OPERATIN 800 R141N448C                                                                                        33.1   74.1   29.4   84,1   84.3   84.?   444.7
8. 88F80RE8183184
8181U88R        TIO 88183048  118181840211     7R.3884018          -   88O  1,330  0,260  2.206  2,640  8.,808         1.85       -   46.9   70.4   93,9  117.3  140.8   969,3          I  2.11          0     0o8
SobLoA,T,  4800048T1818O                                                                                                              -   46.9   70,4   93.9  017,3  140.8   469,2
Total 8800888129818                                                                                                                  368.3  417.5  461.1  491.6  121.7  538.1 2,239.7
tsto  84811338                                                                                                                          0.198.   621.T5083  521,1  53.3,9.1
/b  041 W0i,200 R2                                                                              A8  E8IIIN  M041  FOR PW5878
/F  400 4,3                                                                                     '1  IE.lO  91010438  I 842198 4088188
/2  280 88 4.81 84M  844,841148 P1044381 042N1  814 .48,8889 494.E1                                11   138 U  44491O8T8.20 03181091
I.  51 42,S.4N PAM   40 841140                                                                  /n  O WM 0   FOR 20 WM0
/F  1840 8884804 R    , 8129440I, 041180                                                        lo  OK188  018FO  40 PEPP 1148F
ft  088680  408 PI21ED1,41088800F3 2THERS                                                       /I  WE WE89 44.1E8881  Y98, 20 PARTICIPANTS
6h  6 FOR 14104                                                                                 I E EC0818   MO1(  204114T 82 'SM  FD18           FACLITY
,/i  30 804 14F88,11 FOR0410,188FOR0POLICE8POT,                                                      By WA 
&okerb, 2?. 193 14233



-45-
PERU                                               Table 6
CHIANCHAMAYO - SATIPM RUiA PEVELOPENIT PROJECT
load  - Detailed  Cost
(US$ 000)
F araseters
UIJ3ia,titL                                          Dase CDeS                          PHe.
-------------------------------- Unit -----------_____________________                                Cont  Forl   Groi;   Suonar;
Uint 19t4 7985 1984 1987 1988 1989 T%t01 Coat  1984   1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   Total   Rate  E>ch.  Tax R2te Accornt
t  IFIESTFNT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORK!
FEEDER ROADS                                                                                - 2,990,1 2,990.1 2,990   2,990 1         - 1l,960,2  0,15  0.35       0.f5      Cl
YURINIA IRttGE                                                      -252                        548r0        -        -       -       -    8000  0.15  0,75        0:15      CW
Sti-modal CML WORKS                                                                        252.0 3,538:a  2,990:1 2!990:1 2i990:1        - 12,760.2
8. CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                                     333,3   333   333.3           -        -      -  1,0000  0. 0    0.2          0     SEP
C; MAIXTENANCE WORKSHOP AND EQUIPMENT                                                      333:3   333,3   333,3   333,3   333,3  333.3  2,000.0  0.05   0.9          0:16       ED
P. TRAINING                                                                                 50.0    50.0         -       -        -      -    100.0  0,05   0.9          0     SER
Te;.al  WESONFNIT COSTS                                                                       968:7 49254.7 3,656.7 3,323.4 3,323.4  333.3 15,860.3
t1: RECLURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. NAINTCNACE                                                                                 -    40,0    80.0   120.0   184.0  184,0    608,0         0   0.3         0     OPO
TeaLl RECURREINT COSTS                                                                             -    40,0    80.0   120.0   184,0  184.0    608.0
Totl! SASEI-IHE COSTS                                                                          968:7 4,294:7 3,736.7 3,443.4 3,507.4  517.3 16,468.3
C===== ====== ===== :===:==  ======= ====== ========
Ort-er 27, 1 M8   14'34



-46-                                Table 7
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads - ImDrovement Standards 1/
Natural Ground Cross-slope
0 to 20%           20% to 50%             > 50%
Alignment Criteria
(a) Horizontal curves:
Desirable radius                  30m                >15m                 > iom
Minimum radius  2/                12m           Existing widened to extent
practical
(b) Verticle:
Desirable max. grade 3/            6%                  10%                  12%
Absolute max. grade 4/            10%           Existing grade with surface
improved
Flooded areas                      5/                   -
Road Width
Roadbed - Desirable                   5.5m                 4.5                  3.5m 6/
- Minimum                    4.5m                  3.5m 6/             Existing
Surfacing-gravel (full depth)    4.0m-4.5m            3.0m-4.Om                 3.Om
Ditch                                 0.5m                 0.5m                 0.5m
Removal of Shade Trees            As required to permit road surface to dry
Cross Slope (min) 8/                    4%            4% drain to ditch        4% drain to
ditch
Stream Crossings 7/               Pipe Culverts or Paved Fords or Small Bridges
River Crossing                     1-lane bridge (H-20-S44 loading)
1/  Standards apply to both intermittent and continuous improvements.
2/  Widen roadway platform at sharp curves, to form passing bays where sight
distance is obstructed.
3/  Limit grade improvements to localized flattening of sharp "dips" and
flatten grades in direction followed by loaded trucks.
4/  Improve surface on steep grades.
5/  Grade should be 0.5 meter higher than normal water level or 0.3m higher
than maximum water level, whichever controls.
6/  Passing bays (max. width 6.0m) would be provided where road width is less
than 4.5m.
7/  Small bridges (L <10m) only where depth of water makes paved fords impossible.
8/  Cross-slope would be increased to 7%-8% on steep slopes.



-47-                                                       Table 8
PERU
CHANCHAMAOY  - SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Titling - Detailed Cost
(058t 000)
Pera,etera
lenLte                                          Base Couts                      Ph9,
----------------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------------------- Cont. For,   Gross   Sulmmari
'S.t     l994 19S5 1906 298:1 1989 198  Totel Cost  1984   198'   1986   1987   I98P   1989  Total   Rat4  Exch, Tax Rate 4ccouwt
INVESTMENT COSTS
d. EQUIPMENT
OFFICE EQJUIPMENT                                    -40                                                 -      -       -      -      -    40.8  0.05   0,5      0.16       EQ
; ADORATORY EVUIP8NMT                                                                           29       -       -      -      -      -      2,9  0,05   0.8     016       LE
ENGINEERING EgUIPMENT                                                                          383       -      -       -      -      -    3la,3 005   0.8      0.16       EG
PHOTOIRAPHOI  EQUIPMFNT                                                                        13 0      -       -      -      -      -    13.0  0.05   0.8      0116       EQ
ELECTRIC MAP TABLE                                                                            1000       -      -       -      -      -   100,0  0.05   0.8      0.16       EQ
SuL-Tetcl FQUTAENiT                                                                              195:0      -       -      -      -      -   195.G
B. VEHICLES
BFAT                                    UNIT         I -     -    -     -    -       1    3       0      -      -       -      -      -      3.0 0.05   0.6       0,4      ViEH
SMALL TRUCK                             LUNT         7    -    -    7    -    -         14 l46  102>2    -      -  102,2       -      -   204.4  0.05   0,6       0.4      VEHi
S:b- T.tJl VFHTr ES                                                                              105.2      -      -  102>2       -      -   207.4
C. LOCAL CONSULTANT SOCIAL SCIENTIST  MAN - MONTH       9    3    -    _    _          12    2   18,0    6.0       -       -      -      -    24.0  0.05      0         0     SER
e1 INL)FETMFNT CR3TS                                                                             318.2    6>0       -  102,2       -      -   426.4
RECIJRFNRT COSTS
A: SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
JEFATURA                                                           -Q>4   19,4   19.4   19,4   19>4   19>4   116,4                                  0     0        0      SAL
ARI4INISTRATTON                                                                               18>6   18.6  1tS6   18t6   18t6   18,6   101.6        0     0         0     SAL
LEGAL                                                                                        4?,9   47,9   47>9   47.9   47.9   47.9   287.6        0     0        0      SAL
ll!L!NG                                                                                      12.5   l2.5   12-5   t2:5  12,5   12.5    75.2        0      0        0     SAL
NATIVE COMMUNITIES                                                                            1132   13,2   13>2   13,2   13,2  03.2    79.2        0     0        0      SAL
REVERSION AND ADJUDICATION,                                                                   56,9   56.9   '6.9   56.9   56.9   56,?   341.2       0     0        0      SAL
CLASSYFICATION                                     -8106                                               -      -   81.6       -      -   163.2      0     0         0     SAL
CADASTRAL                                           -                                         16.9   16.9   16.9   16.9   16.9   16.9   101,6       0     0        0      SAL
PHTO-IP8NT                                          -7.2  37;2   37.2   37.2   37,2   37,2   223.2                                                  0     0        0      SAL
BOUNDARIES                                                                                   74,7  74,7   74,7   74.7   ?4.7   74.7   448.4         0     0        0      SAL
CAPRrO6RAPHY                                                                                  18>7   18>7   18.7   18.7   08.7   18>7   102.4       0     0         0     SAL
REGISTRY OFFICE                                                                               22'.5  22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5   134.8       0     0        0      SAL
FXTFRNAL LEGOL SERVICES                                                                       20-8   20 8   20.8   20.8 20.8   20.8   124.8         0     0         0     SAL
St'L-To!(l SALARIES AND AL.ONANCES                                                             441.0  35994  359>4  441.0  359.4  359.4 203t9.6
P. OFFICE EXPENDITURE                                                                            25.9   25.9   25.9   75.9   25.9   25.9   155.6       0  0.15         0      OPo
C> VEHTICLE OPN COSTS                                                                            32:5  32:5  32 5   32,5   32,5  32.5   195.2          0   0.3       0.5     OPV
b. TRAVEL EXPENSES                                                                               73.7   73.7   73.7   i3.7   73.7   73.7   442.0       0     0         0     OPO
al RECUJRRENT COSTS                                                                               573.1  4V1.5  491.'  573.1  491.5  491.5 3F112.5
:=== =====  ======    z=====  ========= =====G
tel PASELINE COSTS                                                                                 891.3  497 5  491.5  675>3  491.5  49125 3,538.9
_=o=== ====== ===== ======  === ====== ====1=
tcLer 27v 1983  14.40



-48-
Table 9
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO - SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Native  Communities  - Detailed  Cost
(1US$ 001
Parameters
Ouaruot.t                                         Base Costs                      Phs.
------------------------------- Unit --------------------------------------                Cant, For.   Gross   Sunfamerv
Unit      1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 19S9 Total Cost  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988  1989 Total  Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Account
1 IH !FCtNFN'l COSTS
A. VEHICLFS I EQUIPMENT
PICK-UP  '                                     I    -  -      -     -     -         124   12.4       -       -       -      -    -   12,4  0.05   0,6         0.4      'EH
MOTQRCYf:LF lb                                      -          -    -    -       5 1.67    8.3        -      -       -       -    -    8.3  O.O'i  06         0.4      HEV
TOOLS                            SET          3    -                            3 3153    4.6        -       -       -      -    -    4.6  0z05   O.         0.16       ES
WFLL DIG3'ER                    UJIT           3    -                           3   30   90,0        -       -       -      -    -   90.0  0.05  0G8         0;16       EC
Sub Total VEHICLES I EQUIPMENT                                                               115,3       -      -       -       -    -  115.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                          115t3       -       -      -       -    -  115:3
11, RECURRENT cosrs
A. POTABLE WATER PROGRAMME
STAFF /c                                                                                 25,:3   48.3   2873   28.3   22,8    -  153.3         0     0         0      SAL
MATERlLt.S                     WELL         i0   60   60   60   60    -   300  0,6   36-0   36,0   36.0   36.0   36.0    -  180.0              0  0.15         0      OP0
TRAWL                                                 -    -    -    -         -          3,0    30    3.0    3.0          -    -   12.0       Q  0:15         0      OPO
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE        VEHICLE YEAR      3    3    3    3    3    -    15 0.53    1,6    1.6    1.6    1,6    1.6    -    8.0              0   0,3       0.5      OPV
SCHGLARSHIPS                COURSE-YEAR      3    3           3 3    -         12  1.2    3.6    3.6    3.6    3,6         -    -   14.4       0     0         0      TCR
SaAy-Tutol POTABLE WATER PROGRAMME                                                           69.7   922   792.5   72.2   60.4    -  367.7
B, LOW COST TECHNOLOGIES
FOREIGN CONSULTANIS          MAN-MONTH       6    6    2         -            14   10   60.0   60,0   20.0         -       -    -  140.0       0   0.9         0      SAL
SPECIALIST                   MAN-YEAR              I    I          1          5 1.33    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    -    6.7           0      0        0      SAL
PROMOTERS                    MAN-YEAR        3    3    3    3    3            15 1.33    4.0    4.0    4.0    4,0    4.0    -   20.0           0     0         0      SAL
MATERIALS                                       -    -    -    -    -          -          9.3    9,3    9.3    9.3    9.3    -   46.7          0  0.15         0      OPO
TRAIVEL                                                                                   3.4    3,6    3.6    3.6    3,6    -   18.0          0  0.15         0      OPO
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE                                                                       5.3    5t3    5.3    5.3    5.3    -   26.7          0   0.3       0.5      OPO3
SCHOLARSHIPS                COURSE-YEAR      3    3    3    3    -    -    12  1.2    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6             -    -   14.4       0     0         0      TR0
S,ib-Totuil LOW COST TECHNDl.OGES                                                           87,2   87.2   47.2   27.2   ?3.6    -  272.4
C. TRAINING COURSES
STAFF /d                                                                                 18,6    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    -   *6.7          0     0         0      SAL
MATERIALS                                                                                 6.9    6.9    6.9    6.9    6.9    -   34.3          0  0.15         0      OPO
TRAVEL                                                                                    9,0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9,0    -   45.0          0  0.15         0      OPO
SCHGLARSHIPS                COURSE-YEAR      5    5    5    5    '    -    25  1,2    6.0    6,0    6.0    6.0    6.0    -   30.0              0     0         0      TRG
S.A--Totel TRAINING COIURSES                                                                 40.5   31.4   31.4   31.4   31.4    -  166.1
Total RECUMRRFNT COSTS                                                                          197.4  211.1  151.1  131.1  115.4    -  806.2
Total BASE!NHE COSTS                                                                             312.7  211.1  151.1  131,1  115.4    -  921.5
!a  LOW-COST TECHNOLOGIES
./b  THREE FOR POTABLE WATER PROORAMMEv TWO FOR LOW COST TECHNOLOGIES,
Ic  TWO MN-YEARS ItAILUNTER e USt20000 FOUR MAN-YEARS ADMINISTRATOR-MECHANIC e S/,M8.3 /2 MAN-YEARS e S/.MI.9
/d FIVE YM-YEARS TRAINEE S!.MS EAFIV?E MAN-YEARS SECRETARY  S/,M 5.; ONE MAN-YEAR WRITER B S!,M8,3i
ONf. MN-YEAR CAHPA ASSISTANT 7 S/.MS,3
October 27, 19113  14142



-49-                                                             Table  10
PERU
CHACHAMIAYD - SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Unit - Detailed Cost
;U15$ 0001
Parsketers
Qusrfits                                             Base CDsts                        Phs,
------------------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------------------- Cont, For,   Gross   Suemare
'Jifit   1984  t915  1986 1987 1988 1989 Totel Cost  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  Total   Rate  Exci, Tan Rate Account
1 INUEMES1NT rtiST5
A VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
PICN-UP Fa                                       3      6          3    6    -    18 12.4   37.2   74.4          -   i7.2   74.4         -   223.2  0.05   0,6         0.4     VEH
OFFICE FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                   -      -          -    -            -    - 265    6,b           -       -       -       -    33.1  0.05   0,8       0.16       EQ.
OFFICE EOUIPMENT                                 -2.                                                   2.3       -       -       -       -     5.7  0.05   0,8       0.16       E0
Sub-Tujtal VEHICIES AND EGJIPMTENT                                                                66.5   83:3        -   37:2   74.4        -   261.5
P, BUILDINGS
STAFF QUARTERS                        M2         -   700    -    -00  0.2                         -  140.0       -       -       -       -   140.0  0t15  0.35          0       CW
OFFICES-NEW                           92       300      -                         300  0.2   60.0         -      -       -       -       -    60.0  0,15  0,35           0      ClW
OFFICES-REHAPILITATION                92       600      -                         600  O0l   60.0         -       -      -       -       -    60.0  0,15  0,35           0      CW
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                                                                              120.0  140,0        -      -       -       -   260,0
TItAl INYFSTMENT COSTS                                                                              186,S  223:3        -   37.2   74.4        -   521.5
II, RECURRENr COSTS
A. STAFF
DIRECTORATE                                                                                  21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   71.8   130,8           0     0         0      SAL
ADHINISTRATION                                                                               46.7   93.0   93.0   93,1   93.1   93,1   512,3           0     0         0      SAL
INTERNAL AUDIT                                                                               10.4   10,4   10,4   10,4   10,4   10,4    62,4           0     0         0      SAL
LEGAL DEPT                                                                                    11:8   11,8   11.8   11.8   11.8   11.8    70.8          0     0         0      SAL
STATISTTCS                                                                                     3.3    6.4    6,4    6.4    6.4    6,4    35,3          0      0        0      SAL
ROADS I BUILDINGS                                                                            39.1   39,1   B6,5   86.5   86.5   86,5   424.4           0     0         0      SAL
CrOMJNICATION                                                                                 6.9   13.9   13.9   13.9   t3.9   13,9    76.3           0     0         0      SAL
PLANNING                                                                                     14.7   27,1   27,1   27,1   27.1   27,1   150,3           0     0         0      SAL
PROMOTION                                                                                     14.0   27,7   77.7   27,7   27,7   27.7   152.7          0     0         0      SAL
iNINITORIN6 AND klVALUATION                                                                  22.0   44,3   44.3   44.3   44,3   44,3   243.3           0     0         0      SAL
Sub-Tutoil STAFF                                                                                190.7  295,7  343.1  343.1  343,1  343,1 1.858.7
B. OPERATING COSTS
OFFICE EXPENDITURE                                                                             1,7    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    13.7          0  0.15         0      OPO
TRAWEL EXPENSES                                                                              24,0   31.3   31,3   31.3   31,3   31,3   180.7           0     0         0      OPO
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS            VEHICLE      3      9    9    9    9    9    48 3.73   11.2   33.6   33.6   33.6   33.6   33.6   179.2              0   0.3       0.5      GPV
RTS 2 BLDG.S OP COSTS                           -      -    -    -    -    -        -          6,5   23.3   45,4   45.4   45,4   45,4   211.3          0  0,15         0      QPO
Sub-Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                        43.4   90.6  112,7  112.7  112.7  112.7   584,9
Total RECIIRRENT COSFS                                                                              234,1  386.3  455.8  455.8  455.8  455.8 2P443.6
Tatat BASE.INE COSTS                                                                                4204 7  609.6  455t8  493.0  530.2  455.8 2,965,1
:a INCLUDES REPLACEMENT AFTER 3 YRS,
Novbebi 3, 1983 0410t



-50-                                                  Table  11
PERU
CHNCHAMAYO - SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing - Detailed Cost
(US$ 000)
Paraeters
'uantitv                                         Base Costs                      Pht.
--------------------------------- Unit ---------------------------------------------- Cont. Eos    Gross   Submat
Unit 1984 195 1986 1987 1988 1989 ToLal Cost  1984   1985    1986  1987 1988  1989  Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate keccount
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. RURAL MARKETING CENTRES
LA MERCED                                                         -       574,0        -       -    -    -       -   574,0  0.15   0.7           0      C1
SATIPO                                                            -            -   574.0       -    -    -       -   574.0  0.15   0,7           0      CU
Sub-Totil RURAL MARKETINi6 CENTRES                                                574.0   574.0       -    -    -        - 1,148.0
Total INVESTOENT cOSTS                                                               574-0   574,0       -    -    -        - 1.148.0
11I RECURRENT COSTS
Ah INCREMENTAL OPN COSTS
SALARIES                                                             -            -   226.5  228.8  6.3 10.2   16.9   488.7        0      0         0     SM.
OPERATION 2 MNTCE                                                    -            -    57.1   57,4    -    -        -   114.5      0  0.15          0     OPO
TRANSPORT                                                            -            -    34.5   36.3  1.8  5.1   13.7    91.5        0  0.15          0     OPO
PACKING MATERIALS-                                                               -   243.6  255.5 38.5 70.6  109,5   717.7         0  0.15         0     WC
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL CPN COSTS                                                      -   561.7  578.1 46.6 85.9  140.1 1,412.4
Totsl RECURRENT COSTS                                                                    -   561.7  578,1 46.6 P5.9  140.1 1)412.4
Total BASELINE COSlS                                                                  574.0 19135,7  578.1 46,6 85,9  140.1 2560.4
O===== ======= ====== ==== 4=== ====== ==_===
October 27, 1983  14:,43



-51-
Table 12
PERU
PHANCHAMAY0 - SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prviect Copfon.enet b,. Time
(US$ 000 '000'
Ba5e Costs
1984 1?85 1986 1987 1988 1989   Total
A. CREDIT                      0.9  3.0  4,1  4,6  2,4  1.2    16.2
B. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION      0.8  0.9  0,7  0,7  0,6  0.6       4.2
C. RESFARCH                    0,4  0.8  0.2  0!2  0,2  01       1.9
D. FORESTRY                    0.6  0.9  0.6  0.5  0.5  0.5       3.7
E. fRiOADS                     1 .0  4,3  3)7  3,4  3,5  0.5    16.5
F, LAND TITLING                0,9  0,5  0.5  017  0.5  0,5       3,5
3. NATIVE COMMUNITIES          0.3  0,2  0.2  0.1  0.1    -       0.9
H. PROJECT UNIT               04  0,6  0.5  0.5  0.5  0;5        3.0
I. MARKETING                   06  t.1'  046  0.0  0,1  0.1       2.6
fotal BASELINE COSTS             5,8 12.4 11,0 1.0.8  85  4.0    52,5
Pht.sical Contingencies       0.3  1.0  0t7  07  0.6  0.0       3.4
Price Contingencies           0.2  1.5  2,2  2.9  3,0  1.7    11.5
Totl PROJEI'T COSTS              6.4 14.9 13.9 14.4 12.0  5.8    67.4
Texes                         0.6  1+6  1,6  1.9  1.5  0.4       7,6
Foreign Exchange              2.6  5.4  4,2  415  3,5  1.1    21.3
Noveober 3? 1983 14:13



-52-                                                             Table  13
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO - SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SusmirY Account bv Project Component
(USS 000)
F'hysica1
Cortirgencies
AGRICULTURAL                                 LAND      NATIVE    PROJECT                        -------------
CRFDIT   FXTENSION   RFSEARCH FORESTRY  ROADS   TITIING COMMUlNTTIES  UNIT   MARKETING  TotIl              Z   A4sount
1  INVESTMENT COST S
A. CIVIL WORKS                        -         777.6    556,9    428.6 !s76012             -            -    260.0   1!148.0 15s930.8  15.O 2,389,6
R: EOUIPMENT                   13Y946!2           44.?  3t 85         32:0  2000n0   197;0           ?4,6    38.3           - l6b699.4   5.0   835:0
C. VEHrCLES                       100.0         461.5      74,4    i67.7           -   207.4         20.7   223,2            -  1s455,0  ',0       72.7
0: SERVTIESC                          -              -       4k8    128 0  li!00.0    24:0               -                   -  1s256,8   5.0    62;8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            14s,46,2        1!283.9    9834,6    955,7 17,S60,3   426.4           115.3   521.5  1t148,0 35Y341.9   9!5 3s360,2
II. RECIURENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF             166,4       1!885,7    549,3  1,056.8            - 2',31?,6       376.7 1!858.7       488,7  8F702,1j   0,0       0.0
'i  TRAINING                      12S0         112:6          -        67193      -       _          8.8         -          -    794.7   0.0       0,0
C, VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS        780          409?,9     63.5    444,7           -   195.2         34,7   179,2            -  1s405.2   0,0       0.0
D, OTHER OPERATING COSTS    1i926.2            531.6    326.5    626.8    608.0   97.6            336.0   405.7       923:7  6,292!1   0:0         c,0
Total RECURRENT COSTS              2y182.6       20939,7    939.3  2y739.7    608.0 3Y112.7             806.2 2Y443.6 's412,4 17,104:1    0            0.0
Totsil SASFLINE COSTS             16s22''8:       4s223.6  1!933 9  37695:5 16i468:3 3i53089            921.5 2s965;i   2,560,4 52s.526,1   6.4 3Y360,12
Physical Contingencies             702.3         142.0    104,9       90Q6  "s069,G    21.3             5.8    52.1      172'2  33602   0.0          0.0
Price Contiriserscies            3i7'-6 0        8/2:3    326,3    773,9  3s901:2   719,:             13S54   663.1       367,2 lif515i2   5.6   642,2
Total PROJECT COSTS                20f687:2       >237:9  2s355:1  4S559,9 22!438,  4i280:0           1062:7 3,680.3   3,099.8 67!401.4   5.9 4s002-4
Taxes                            2y943,7         489.9    139,3    45'2,1  3sO80,2   253,0             46.1   230.6           -  7Y634.9   7:1   543,3
Foreiqnf, Ez&iianiese            7s'2tS:1        932:3-i   875.4    764  7 !'256:,'  406:3            305.4   424.7   1,160,3 21s342-2   7.7 1s645.4
Novetiber 3, 1983  1471'



-53-
Table 14
PERU
CHNCHAIAYO - SATIPO RURAL OEVELOP ENT PROJECT
SumarN  Acount bv Time
CUSS 000!
Pase Costs +
Price Cont,
Pase Costs                            Forein E.chanse   on Ease    Total Incl,
---------------------------------------------------------------------------    Costs-t               Cont.
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988    1989    Total        ,     Amount      (USl)         .US$)
!, INVESTKENT COrTS
A. CIVIL WORKS               1429.8  5,2?9,7  1,241.3   Y.990,1  2P990,1          - 15p930,8   3Fr5   6Y297.6        18,933.2    21Y773,1
D. FOLUIPOENT                 1t'83-' 3,29924  4,t4M,  4,439,0  2,29t0   946.3 16J6994   46,5   70768.8              20,178.7    21Y187,7
C. VEHIC%ES                     492,7    38.6       59:1    324.1    168,1    42,4  1,455.0   60.0         873.0       1f681.9     1,766.0
D, SERVICES                     468.9    452,9    334.9          -         -       -  1,256,8   23,1       290,0      1I3R7.3      19456.7
Total INVE3TIENT CoSTS           3F974.7  9?400.A  70775.6  7'53:'  5,449.1   98.8 3M5341.9   43.1  15,229,3             42YI81l1    46Y183,4
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A, INCREMENTAL STAFF         1,244,2  14590.8  1,645,3  1,484,4  1,401.2 1,336.2  8?702,1    28           240.0     10,625,0    10P625,0
P: TRAIANNG                    127/:    147?7    141,4    13127   130,2   116.2    7947 O?;0                0 0         966:9        966.9
C, VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS   148.4    ?37.8    251.5    262,1    262.1   243.2  1S405,2   30.0            421.5       1-'37.8      19737,8
D. OTHER OPERATING COSTS       345,2    973,5  1,222,2  1.7I8.0  12217.9 1f345.3  6F282.1   10.2          643,2       7,888.3     7,888,3
Total PFCIJRRENT COSTS           1,865.3  2,949.8  3,260 1  3-O-J63  .4,011:4 3!040:9 17!184.1    7,6   1!302.8          21f218.0    21,218,0
Total BASELINE COSTS              5-840,. 12.350,4 li?036,0 10,809,5  8P4c0.5 4,029.  52,526,1   :,415  16,532,1          63Y399,1    67f401.4
thY-ic:,sl Curtirp2r,inkes       3417?   Q?s,6    712 9    686.7    57k'    49.4  3,360,.   41.4   1,391.2                    -            -
Pr2ce ContinAencies              231.8  1,503.4  'F170I   ?i941,2  iM91.3 1,67S,8 11515.2   ?9.7   3!418,8                   -            -
Tota1 PROJECT COSTS               6,413,5 14,851.8 11,919,6 34p437,4 12,023.3 5,755,9 679401,4   31,7  21,3422!.          639399,1    67.401,4
Taxes                            M12.7  1,600.3  1,613.5  1,914, 1,467,4   421.1  7,634,.          0;i        '.0             -      7f634.9
Forei4i- Fxrchalte             2!,582.6  5,176,6  4,207.6  4f544.6   ,5'21.? 19108.9 21i342_2   0.0           0,0             -    21,342 2
Novembei, 3,983  1412



-54-                                   Table 15
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly               Cumulative
Fiscal Year                                   Amount                    Total
------    (US$ Million)---------
1985
September 30, 1984                             0.5                       0.5
December 31, 1984                              0.5                       1.0
March 31, 1985                                 1.0                       2.0
June 30, 1985                                  1.0                       3.0
1986
September 30, 1985                             1.0                       4.0
December 31, 1985                              1.0                       5.0
March 31, 1986                                 1.5                       6.5
June 30, 1986                                  1.5                       8.0
1987
September 30, 1986                             1.5                       9.5
December 31, 1986                              1.5                      11.0
March 31, 1987                                 2.0                      13.0
June 30, 1987                                  2.0                      15.0
1988
September 30, 1987                             2.0                      17.0
December 31, 1987                              2.0                      19.0
March 31, 1988                                 2.0                      21.0
June 30, 1988                                  2.0                      23.0
1989
September 30, 1988                             2.0                      25.0
December 31, 1988                              2.0                      27.0
March 31, 1989                                 2.0                      29.0
June 30, 1989                                  2.0                      31.0
1990
September 30, 1989                             2.0                      33.0
December 31, 1989                              2.0                      35.0
March 31, 1990                                 2.5                      37.5
June 30, 1990                                  2.5                      40.0
February, 1984



Table  16
PERU
CHANCHAvA.YO-SATIPO  PURAL DEVELOPTENIT  PROJECT
Financial Prices  (Annual)
CALENDAR YEAR
Unit        0         1      2 to &  7 to 20
OUTPUT
COFFEE                  KOS          1,890    1,785    1,710    2!025
BANANA                  KGS            120      120       120      120
YUCA                    KGS             90       90        90       90
MIZE                    KGS            225      22        225      225
CITRUS                  KGS             94       94        94       94
PAPAYA                  KGS            225      225       225      225
AVOCADO                 KOS            110      110       110      110
PINEAPPLE               KGS             79       79        79       79
INPUTS
SACKS                  SACKS           400      400       400      400
MAIZE SEED              KGS            375      375       375      375
YUCA CUTTINSS       TH. CUTTiNGS      950       950       950      950
BANANA SUCKERS         ,LANT            -0       30        30       30
PINEAPPLE SUCKERS  TH. SUCKERS       1,000    1F000    1,000    1,000
PAPAYA SEED             KGS          ?400    9,400    9,400    9.400
CMFFEE SEEDLINGS       R'ANT           20       200       200      200
PLANTS                 PLANTS        1,000    10O00    *,000    1,000
PINE. PLANTS         TH. PLANTS     4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000
BOXES                   BOX           '181      281       281      281
FERTILIZER              KGS            220      220       22-)0    220
CHEMICALS               KGS          5.000    5,000    5,000    5,000
LLIE                     GS             ..     '8.1      29.1    18.1
LABOR
LABOR                 NANDAYS       21000    2,000    2,000    2,000
Aus'st 15s 1:`33



-56-
Table 17
PERU
CHMNCHAhAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Farm Model - Production and Inputs
CALENDAR YEAR
Incremental
Unit        t            2          3         4        5         6     7 to 20
CROPPING INTENSITY                Percert              -        5.00      7.50      7.50     7.50      7.50     7.50
CROPPING PATTERN
Existing Te&hnologv
COFFEE                         HA            -4.00      -4.00      -4.00    -4.00    -4.00    -4.00    -4.00
MAIZE                          HA            -0.50      -0.50      -0.50    -0.50    -0.50    -0.50    -0.50
BANAA OLD fLANTING             HA            -0.50      -0.50      -0.50    -0.50    -0.50    -0.50    -0.50
BANANA NEW PLANTING            HA                -           -         -         -        -         -        -
Sub-Total Exi,tis Tech olasi Area               -5.00       -5.00     -5.00    -5.00    -5.00    -5.00    -5,00
New Techn;cOgv
COFFEE                         HA             4.00        4.00      4.00      4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00
MAIZE                          HA             0.50        1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
BANANA OLD PLANTING            HA             0.50       0.50       1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
BANANA NEW PLANTING            HA                -        0.50      0.50     0.50      0.50     0.50      0,50
Sub-Total New Technoloss  Area                   5.00        6.00      6.50      6.50     6.50      6.50     6.50
Total CROPPING AREA                                    -        1.00      1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50
MAIN PRODUCTION
COFFEE                           KuS           200.00     400.00    600.00   900.00 1o000.00 1,200.00 1.200.00
MAIZE                            KOS            50.00   1,000.00  1,100.00 1,150.00 1,150.00 1,150.00 1,150.00
BANANA                           KGS           250.00     500.00  7,000.00 7,750.00 8,250.00 8,750.00 9,O00.00
SALES
COFFEE                           KGS           200.00      400.00    600.00   800.00 1,000.00 1,200.00 1,200.00
;AI7E                            KGS            50.00   1,000.00  1.100.00 1,150.00 1.150.00 1.150.00 17150.00
BANANA                           KGS           250.00     500.00  7,000,00 7.750.00 8,250.00 8,750.00 9,000.00
INVESTMENT
INPUTS
Eauipsert                     UNIT   1,056,000.00 435,000.00 950OO0.00           -        -         -        -
Land PreFaration               HA             2.00        2.00         -         -        -         -        -
Coffee Seedlings             PLANT        3,500.00   3,900.00    S00.00   400.00          -         -        -
Fertilizer                   KIGB           400.00     900.00    800.00   400.00          -         -        -
LABO
Labor                       MANDAYS          94.00     126.00      48.00    16.00         -         -        -
OPERATING
INPUTS
FERTILIZER                    KtGS          475.00     500.00    575.00   550.00   550.00   550.00   550.00
CHEMICALS                     KGS            17.50       18.00     20,00     0.00 20.00 20000    20.00
M4IZE SEED                    KGS                -      17.50      17.50    17,50    17.50    17.50    17,50
SAEC?S                       BACKS            1.00        b.00      6.00      6.00     6.00     6.00      6.00
BANANA                       PLANT          315.00     390.00    465.00   190.00   190.00   190.00   190.00
LABOR
LABOR                       MANDAYS          77.50     122.50    157.50   162.50   162.50   162.50   162.50
Setember 8,103



PERU                                                             Table  16
C5ffe F.aTa Dle4430   - Finaoaial Thxget
0        2        0         4         5          6         7         8          9        10        00        13       23       14       IS       16        17       16 
0260FEE                                   3,402.00 3,570300 3.262,33  4,104.00  4,446,00  4,780.00  4,78B000  5,670.00  5,670,00  S,670,00 2,,670.00 5,670.00 5,670.00 5,670.00 5,670.DO 5.670.00 5,670.00 5,670.00 5.6y',o5:
'007E                                      405.00   42750A  450,00    406.)00    450,00    450.00    450.00    420.00    450.30    430.00   450.00   450.00   450.00   450,00   450.00   450 00   450.37   450.70   4s1o           45C .
86868                                       3M,0    430,00 0.200.00  7.290,00  1.050,00  1,410.00  0,440.00  1,440.00  1,440,00  1,440.00 1,440,00 1,440.00 0.440300 0.440,00 1,440.00 0,440.00 0,440.07 1.440,00 1, 4427   1.44.2 
Su,b-T7,tK -AI0 PRODUCTION                   4,097,10 4.407,50 5,402,00  5,044.00  6,244,00  6,640.00  6,670.00  7,560O  7,560,On 7,560,37 7,566.00 7,560.04 7,560~00 7,560,00 70560.00 7.560,00 7,560.00 7,560,00 7,24...~5,5
00200 VAoIl' OF 4*110U7706                   4,107,70 4,407.50 5,413,00  2,044,70  6,246,00  6,648,00  6,6'6.00  7,560.00  7,560,00  7,560.00 7,560.00 7,560.00 7,560.00 7,560,00 7.560000 0,560 00 7,540.30 7,560.00 7,0: .'>47
.407 "613E01 2IFT-DUC500                    4,17,07C   4.417050 5.402,00  0,044.00  4,746,00  4640.00  4,670.00  7,540.00  7.560.00  7.064,00 7,50.000 7,5040.0 7,560.00 7,54.,00 7,060.00 7,060.00 7,543,70 7,560.40 7.51<      5o'     7
%'caj 0401760                                4.007.00 4,417.57 3.412,00  0.64.4,00  6,246.00  6,6.40.00  0,671.70  7,560.00  7.560,00  '.560.00 7.560,00 7,060.00 7,560.00 7,560,37 7.560,00 7.560,00 7.360,00 7,560.27 'So51.7 '.24
E-             ~          1.056,00   935.2   2055.00 P                                                                                                                                
QW,)  St#,dli,o,                      100. N   7000 06 0.00   -                                        -         -         -                            -        -        -                       
0o67n0,e40,,ls     ~~~~~00.00O  '00.00   0760.0          000            -         -          -         -                             -        -        -        -                       
18.1,144',                  06.32    070.07- -  07600   -- -- -- -- -- --   - -- -- -   -- -- -- -- ---0,00- - -- ------        - ----  - -- --   - --  -   - ---   --- ---- -- --     - -- --   - -- --  - -   --- - -- -
INPUTS' ,077                     2.024 00 2,77,027   771.00    04.0 68,-                                                 -         -                                    -        -         -                   
LOWR
180.,                                 148.00   125200    06.00     32.02                                                                                                                                
0,k-24~~47    0480010742     2,20220~ 2020.06-  --027.00    200.00-    - ----   - ----   - ----   -  ----   -   ----   -----      ----     - -----   - --------   -----   ---------                --------          - ----
00T00        NV3H4                         ,210 02'000,270              240
FERTI12Z0R                            004,30   000,25   023.70    221.00    '20,00   J222.00    131.00    121.0       02,0.7    J22030   120.00   121.00   020,00   120,00   221.00   120.00   020.00   1216.0   01.00   07215
000610010                            007,0     0050 01~O  20.0    0 20.00    020.00    220.00    120,00    120.00    020.00    030.00   020.00   020.00   020.00   120.00   120.00   03.7200.00           020.00   120 .27 120 .0 12Q
46070 0003                              6,57    20.02    10012     00.02      10.12     00.02     73,12     00.02      15.02     i3.02    00.03    00.02   01,07    10.02    10.02    00.07    10.02    10.12:3l.12    13.05
04000                                  7,00      4.00     4.00      4.00      4 77      4.00       4.00      4.00       4.00      4.00     4.30     4.00      4.00     4.00     4,00     4.00     4.00      4.00     40       7.77)o
80806                                 10,.75    03.75    05.00      6.75      6.75       6.75      6.73      6.73      a,7        6.75     6.75     6.75      6,75     6.75     6.75     6,75      6.70     6.75     ' 7      6 50
0,0-7e0  T612                      203.001  25.4.1   275,87    244.07    244.07    344.07    264,07    244.87    264.67    264,67   344,87   264.67   74.64,7   364.87   364.87   264.07   264,87   264.67   2464.0'   264,8
L400R                                764,0  2.00   8     88DC W. 00    804.00    804.0  00 44,00    484.00   6854.00    004.00    804.00   804.00   4894.00   004,00   894,3    004.00   094.00   004.00   804.00   804,27   814,77
066-Total 600042040                         906.00 10.37,02 1,064,0   0,050.07  0,050.07  7,050.67  1,0580.7  7,050.07  0,150.07  1,050,87 1,036.07 1,058.87 1,100,07 0,030.07 0,050,67 1,150.07 0.0 ,07 5,20.07 o.o 540' 0.150,0
Suh-T'tlaPOD0C2T0010  2302                  3.200,10 3,400,13 3,100,87  1.056488  1.05687  1,050.67  1,150.07  0.058.87  0,158.87  0,058.87 0,150.87 0,026.67 0.638,87 0,058.07 0,050.07 0,050,670,5087,15         0.07 0,150,07 1  .155068
Tot,l O070F800                               0,200.00 7,400.03 2,000.87  0,358.88  0,050,87  7,000.07  0,150.67  0,050.07  0,050,87  0,056.67 1,158.87 0,036.07 0,150.8701,050.87 2,158.07 0,750.B7 0,150.8701,158.87  ,1 50,07 1,250.087
CA8004.( 01.04  F02 FI01ANCI0G                 048.90 0,007,37 3,27.0.13  4,485.10  5,087.27  5,488,10  5,509,70  6,4000.03  6,401.03  6,601.12 6,401.13 6,400.12 6.400.12 6,401.12 6,400.02 6,400.03 6,400.02 6,401.12 6,4 01.12 6.401 02
FAR  0AM017 BENEFITS 0000R0 F0I840341          988,89 0,007.07 3,220.00  4,485.13  5,3087.12  5,489.10  5,528.10  6,400131  0.400,02  6,401.03 6.401,12 6,400.07 6,400,02 6,401.12 6,401.12 6,601.12 6,400.03 0,400.12 6,4201 12 6,401.12
000fL08(8TS ON LOW  508R4 LM              1,769.60 0,856.40   020.60    060.00          -         -                    -         -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -
300108R408E73S OM 01M 770EN1088             706.980  69.70   070.70    027.00    027.0    027.00    027,10    927,00    92.2.03    927.00   027.00   927.03  027.00   827.00   027.00   027.00   027.10   927,07   9-27.10   927,12
T88V1008804F 8000PRE   0000                 090,D l22   207.42   232.07    2330.77    700.77    201.77    200.77   2301.77    231.7  0.77   23   0,77   2 01.77   2 00.77   2 50,77  300.77  300.77    300,77   23 0.77  301.77   2 03 - ?1.77
L.ESS7088800  T08OM7000000                  207.47   703.097   270.7'    201.77    200.77    230.77    230.73    200.77    200.77   2300.77   231,77   231.77   201.77  2300,77   230.77   230.77   330.73   230.77   205.70            -
048-ToIi 0708000 0000I6400                   2.508.27 2,707.55, 0,754.70  1,087.00    027.00    027.10    027.10    027.00    027.00    937.00   927.00   837.00   937,00   037.00   037.10   027.10   827.00   937.10    27.23 1,o1B.07
LON8 TERM080R0INCIPAL                                     -             478.82    526.65    605.65    696.40    300,97    020.01  0,050.28   -55.51   -63.84   -73,42   -84.43   -07.09 -0111.66  -028.40  -147.67  -11 6.2  -005,:27
L0 T.0008  080007                                -        -T            794.86    747.00    668.00    577.00    472,72    353.37    714.40    52.50    43.84    73.42    84.43    07.09   100.66   028.4    047.67    60.2   17.2
807 7E80 080400086.L                                 706J80   880.73    003.00    827.10    027.10    027.10    927.00    977.10    027.10   027.00   027.10   937,00   027.10   027.10   027.10   027.13   027.10   927.12   927,10
08100  T088 I87ERES7                                 1100.50   030.45    139.78    039.06    027.06    139.06    1790.6    1390.6    100.56   029.06   1390206   039.00   1390.5    100.06   130.06   139.06   000.06   130.06   13.0,0
Su6-Ttol OjI    N 0004074E600                       -006.42 1,040.03  2,240.17  2,027.03  23.30,83  2,389,83  2,330,83,  2,230,83  2,330.85 1,046.16 1,066.06 1,064.06 1,0664164 0",161066.14006,0  0,03.016 [044.14 1,046616 0.06.6.10
NET 008M0I40                                 2.558,29 1.796.13   754.55 -0,250.27 -0,412.75 -1,402.75 -1.412.75 -1,412.75 -1,402.72. -1,402.75  -100.06  -000.06  -0390.6  -038.00  -108.06 -039.04  -120.06  -039.06  -j39.06    92,71
CAN4 01.80 AFTER 00I844I08                   0537,17 2,8006.30 ,074.60  3.226006  3.674,28  4,076.08  4,100.18  4,08,38  4,088.56  4,988.38 6,262.00 6,362.00 6.263,06 6,263.04 6,262.06 6,362.06 6,262.00 6,262.06 6,262.04 6,400.03
0F88 FAM010 KNFI4000T 0 MM 0FI4A0088         3,537.17 2,403.50 0,074.67  3,224.86  3.674,30  4,076.28  4,106.28  4,060,00  4.988,3B  4,080.38 6,263.00 6.362,00 6.263,06 6,262.36 4,262.00 6,262.00 6,262.00 6,262.06 6,32,206 6,493,33
Octote, 26, 0083 10254



-58-
Table 19
PERU-
CMANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Citrus Farm Model - Production and Inputs
CALENDAR YEAR
Withwt                                                          Wjith Project
Unit    I io 20        1          2           3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10        11    12 to 20
CROPPING INTENSITY              Percent        17,Z3        30.00      40.00     40,00     40,00     40.00     40.00     40,00     40.00     40.00     40.00     40.00     40.00
CROPPING PATTERN
Existina Technologs
CITRUS ILD PLANTING           HA          1.00            -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
CITRIJS NN PLANTING          HA             -            -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         _         _         _
MAIZE                         HA          0,50            -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
PAPAhA OLD PLANTINC.          HA          0,60            -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
PAPAYA NEW PLANTING           HA             -            -                    -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
YUCA                          HA          0,150           -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Sub-Total Existina Technologo Area          2.60             -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
New fechnolulto
CITRUS OLD PLANTING          HA              -         1.00       1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00
CITRUS NEW PLANTING           HA             -         1,00       1,10      1,50      1.50      1,50     150       1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50      1,50
NAIZE                        HA             -          0.50       1.00      1,00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00
PAPAYA OLD PLANTING           HA             -         0.60       0.60      0.60      0.60      0.60      0,60      0.60      0.60      0.60      0.60      0.60      0.60
PAPAYA NEC  PLANTING         HA              -         0.0        0 0.        90      0.90      0.90 0.90           0.90      0.90      0,O0      0,9       0,90      0.90
YU(A                         HA              -         0,50      l,00       1.00      1.00      1,00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00
Sub-Total Net4 Technolo0, Area                  -         4,50       6.00      6,00     1,00       6.00      6.00      6.00      6,00      6.00      6.00      6.00      6.00
Total CROPPING AREA                            2.60          4.50       6.00      6,00      6,00      6.00      6.00      6.00      6.00      6.00      6.00      6.00      6.00
MAIN PRODDUCfION
CITRUS                         KGS      10,000.00    10,000.00  11,000.00 11,000.00 12,000.00 22,000.00 29,000.00 30,500.00 31,500.00 32,000.00 33,000.00 34,500.00 35P000.00
1AIZE 1KGS                                050.00       900.00   1.050,00  1,950.00  2,000.00  2,000,00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000,00
PAPAYA                         KGS      2,400,00     2,400.00   6300.00  6P600.00  7,350.00  8,100.00  8,550.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,00000  9,00.00
YOJCA                          KGS       3,500,00     3,75000   7,750.00  8,210,00  N,750,00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000,00  9,000.00  9,000,00  9,000.00
SALES
CITRUS                         KGS      10,000,00    10,000.00  11,000.00 11,000.00 12,000.00 22r000.00 29,000.00 30,500.00 31,500.00 32,000.00 33,000.00 34,500,00 35,000.00
MAIZE                           K0S        850,00       900.00   1,050.00  1,950.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  2.000.00  2,000.00  2,000.00
PAPAYA                         KGS      2,400.00     2,400.00   6,300.00  6,600,00  7,350.00  8,100.00  0,550.00  9,000.00  9,000,00  9,000.00  9.000.00  9,000.00  9,000,00
YIJCA                          KSS      3,500,00     3,750,00   7,750.00  8,250.00  0,750.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,00,.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000.00  9,000,00
INVESTMENT
INPUTS
Eouiptent                   UNIT            - 1,876,000.00 295,000.00 95,00000 95,000.00           -         -         -         -         -         -
Lsnd Pepparatirn             HA              -         2,00          -         -         -         -         -
Plants                     PLANTS           -       250.00      165.00    60.00     20.0           -         -
uertilizer                   KGS             -       100.00    300,00    400.00    400.00    225.00      75.00
Cheticals                   KGS             -          1.00       3.00      4,50      5.00      3.00      1.00
LABOR
Labor                     lANDAYS           -        41.00      115.00    115.00    67.00      22.00         -
OPERAFING
INWUTS
SACKS                       SACKS       24.00         35.00     40.00     40.00     60.00      80.00     85.00     85.00     85,00     85.00     85.00     85.00     05.00
fERTILIZER                  KGS         130.00       472.50     650.00    650,00    750.00    800.00    800,00 .  00.00         80000 8 00.00.            800.00    000.00
CHENICALS                    KGS          1,00        12.00      13,.0     13.50     16,50     18.00     18,00     18.00     18.00     18.00     18.00     18.0     18.00
NAIZE SEED                   60S         17.50        17.50      35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00     35.00
PAPAYA SEED                 K6S           0,06         0.75       0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75      0.75
LIOE                        KGS             -       600.00      600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600,00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00
BOXES                       BOX         60.00        150.00     180.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00    225.00
YUCA CUTTINGS           TH. CUTTINGS     4.00         5.00       10.00     10.00     10,00     10.00     10,00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00     10.00
ILAO0R
LABOR                      NANDAYS      134.50       237.50     331.50    331.50    352.50    365.00    366.00    370.00    372.00    374.00    377.00    378.00    378.00
Se,tember 8O 1983



-59-                                                  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~lable 20
9E96
Citrus Farm Otdel - Fink=anca Bhxlget
1       2        3       4         5         6        7         8        9        10        11       13        13       14      15       16       17      18       19       20
614 ,0 2Ut13
'ITRUS                       ~~~~~~~946,00 1,034,00 10,34.00 1,128.00  2,0680,0  2,726.00  2.961,00  3,102.00  3,241.09 M, 3,2900  ,9.00  3,290.00 3,290,00 3,290,00 3,290.00 3,290.00 1.290,00 3,290.00 3,291.90 3,20.00
99170                                    405.00   427.50  450,00  450.00    450.00   454.00    400.00    450.00   4500.00   450.00   450.00   450.00  450.00   450,00  450000  450.00  400.00   450.00   450.03   459.00
PAPAYA                                   540,00 1,417,50 1,485,00 1,653.75  1,922.50  1,9233.73  2,023,00  2,035.00  2,025.00  2,025.00  2,025.00 2,021.00 2,025.00 2,02.00 2,025.00 2,025.00 2.025.00 2,025.00 2,025.90 2.-025.00
YUCA                                     317.50   697.50  742,50   797.50   819.00   810,00    810.00    910.00   910.00   810.00    810.00    810.00   910.00   910,00   410.00   810.00   810.00   810,06   819300  610300
MAIN7o..   P916  9Ur2T11N            2,772.50 3,376.50 2,711,50 4,019.2 50,130.00  5,909,75 6t246.00  4,382.00  6,538.00  6.575,09  6,570.00 6,575200 6,575.00 6,575.00 6,575.00 6,575,00 6,575.00 6,75n.00 61,70.0 6.512.00
9900 VALLE Of PRODUCTION                  2,222,50 3,576,50 3,711.00 4,019.25  0,10050,%  2.,"90     6,246,00  6,187.00  6,028.00  0,575,00  6,075,00  6,575.00 6,575.00 6,575,00 6,535.00 6,575,00 6,575.00 6,575,00 6,5'5.l 601,200
NET VALUE0 OFPR8001TI01N                  2,222,50 3,576,50 3,71J120 4,019.25  5,150.00  5,909.75  6,246.00  6,392,00  6,528.00  6,075.00  6,070.00  6,575.006,S.D 6,57500 O 6,575,0066,575.006 ,575,00 6 ,57 5.00 6,575,00 6,5'5.T ,W551
Total 1NFL069                             2,222.50 3,576,50 3,711.52 4,019,25 9,1500,2  5,909.75  6,246,00  6,382,00  6,028.00  6,575,00  6,575.00  6,575.00 6,575.00 6,275,00 6,575.00 6,17500 6,575,00 6,575,00 6,57.00 6,57500
010H)1ENT
Oo.aipoonr              ~~~~1,876,00   295,00    95.00   95.00     -         -                     
en-1 P--a~t-o                      190.00       -        -                           -                  -        --                           -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -
22.0    63,0    60.00 2.0           -        -         -                  -                  -         -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
P,.Lbaza,                 ~~~~~ ~~22 00    66,00    98,00    44.00  49.50    16,5         S-                                          -       -        -        -                           
chsa-s                               5.20    15.20    22.50    25,00    12,00     5.00         -        -         -         -        -         -       -                 -       -        -        -       -        -
OU-TolaIN1PUTS                      2,033.50   941,20   265.00   328.00    64.30    21,50         -        -         -        -                   -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
100)0
Labor                               02.00   230.00   230,00   134.00    44,00        -         -                  -         -        -         -       -        -        -       -        -       -
3009-03t.  1000079090                  2,412.00   771,00   495.50  362.00   100,00     21,00        -         -         -        -         -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -
INPUETS
SACKS                               14,00    16.00    16.00   24.00    32.00    34,00    34.00    34,00    34.00        0400     3.0 54.00    34.00   34.00    34.00 1    4.00   24.00 3   4.00   34.00    34     .00
PP920LI7P9                         193,92   14320O  143 20  165.00    176.00   176,00    176.00    176.00   176,00   176,00   176,00    176.0   176.00   026,00   176.00  176.00   176.00   176,00  176.00   176.0
70091C410                           42.00    67.50   67.50    92.50    90.00    90,00    90.00    90,00    90.00        90.00    90.00    90.00   90.00    90,00    90.00     9.0 90.00        90.00   90.  I00   90.00
44170 00E2                           6.56    13,12    13131   13.12    13.12    13.02      0312      11.12    19.12    13.12    13.12    13.12    11.12   11,12   13.13   13.12   13.02    12.12   13,12    13.02
PAPAYA SEED                          7.00    7,105    705.05        7.05  7.05         7,     055M 7.00         7.05 0.0  2         05 7.05     7.0    5 7.05 7,05    7.05    7.0    5    7.05 3,     05 0    .05 29
T9E                                 16.86   16.86    16.86    16.86    16.86    16.86     16.86    16.86    lb.&       1686  16.8 6   16.86    16,86    16.86    16,86   16.86   16.86 16.9   6    16.86 10.86169
BOXES                               16.86    50.50   50.50    62.22    63.22    63.22    63.22    63,22    63.22    63.22    63.32    61.25    61.25   63,22   63.22   63,22   63.22   63.22   63.25    63.22
YIrCA CUTTING0                       4,75    01 9.50       9    .00  9.5   2 9.50      9.50     9     .001 9.50 M        9,00     9,00      9.00    9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50       9.50    9.00    9.50    9.00
9,6-T,,~1a 19011T9                    202,03  loO.ts  320.61   381.26   402.76    404.76    409.76   409.70    409.76   409.76   409.76   409.76  409,76  409,76  4097,76   418,76  409,76   449.76   409.76  409.76
LABDR
LAM1                               449.80  645,00   663.00  705.00    730,00   732.00    740.00    744,00    748.00    754.00   756.00    756,00  756.00   756.00  756.00  756.00  756.00   756.00  756.00   756-00
Sob-Total DP0R901N0                      661.83  968,61   986.61 1.086,26  1,137.76  1,141.76  1,149.76  1,153,76  1,157.76  1,163.76  1,165.26  1,160.76 1.165,76 1,165.76 1,165.76 1.165,76 1,165,76 1,165,26 1,163.76 1,165.76
Sob-Total 990000T109 COST                 3,076.93 1,739,62 1,482.1  1,448.26  1,246.76  0,163.26  1,149.76  1,155.76  1,117.76  1,163.76  1,165.76  1,165.76 1.165,76 1,145,76  1,163.76 1,160.76 1,163.7011276 1,165.76 1,163.76
Total Y-JTFL180                           3,376,83 1,739.62 1,402.11 1,448.26  1,246.26  1,163.26  1.149,76  1,153,76  1,157.76  1,163,76  1,163.76  1,163.76 1.165.76 1,165.76 1,165,76 1,165.76 1,165.76 1,162.76 1,165.76 1,163.76
CASH PFL6 90F0RE F14W00NG                  -854.33 1,996,98 2,229.39 2,570.99  1,904.24  4,746.49  5,096.24  5,233,34  5,370.34  0,411.24  5,409.24  5,409.24 5,409,24 5,409,24 5,409.24 5,489.24 5,409.34 5,449,24 5,409.24 5,409.24
FM18 FAM110 004EP1TS 8EFDRE F14WIG         -854.33 1,836.88 2,229.38 2,570.99  3,904.24  4,346.49  3,096,24  0,233,24  5,370.24  5,411.24  5,409.34  0,409.24 5.409,24 5.40924 5,409,24 5,409.24 5,409.24 5,409.24 5 409.24 5,489.24
SOURCES OF F394446
D181URSM(4TS ON LOW4 TE18 LOAN         1,932.00   616,80   396.40  289.60    86.80    17.20         -         -         -        -         -        -        -        --                        -       -        -        -
00991*99f40  0 194390 0089 LOUB          529.47  774,89   799.29   869.91    910.21    913.41    919.41    923.01   936,21    931.01    933.61   9325.61   932.61   932,61   T32,61  932.61   933.61   925.61  933.61   932.61
T9440ER FROM 90V130  PER10D              133.37   093.72   197.25  217.25    227.55    228.15    229.95    230.75   231.50   232.75   2325.15    225.15  23315  .15  233.15   3 33.15 22 3,15  233.15 225  .15 22515 23.15
1008 TRANSFER9 T0 9003 PERI0D            192.75   197.32   317.25   227.55   258.35   229.95    230.75   231.02    232.75   2313.15    225.15   233.05  2333.15   333.05   233.15  233.15  233,15  225,15  225.15         -
86,Tota S1(RCES OP F14440                 2,400,11 1,188,09 1,165,76 1,148.31    096.21    92901    919.31    922.21    92501    930.61    933.61   933.61  932.61  932.61   933.61   932.61   925.61   925.61  932.61 1,163.76
109B 0ERM PR1IN1IPAL                          -       -        -        -    927.39    163.94    415.95   478.34   550.09   632.61   727,50   026.62  -40.60  -46.69  -53.70  -61.75  -71.81   -1.6l        -3.9  -1109.00
LOW E 00  INTERSET                            -       -        -        - 674,93    618.73   586,77    024,32   452.62   370,11    275.22    166.09   40.66    44,69   53,70    61.75   71.81    91.66   93.91        O 10.0
SHORT TE9 PR1401PAL                           -   29.47   774,89  789.29   869.01    910.21    913.41    919.81    923,01    926.31    931.80    932.61   925.61   932.61   925.61   933.61   933.61   932.61   932.61  932.6
89(T T999 040T9003                            -   79.42   116.25   118.29    130.35    136.03    132.01    127.97    138,45   138.93    119.63   039.99   139.09   i3399   139.99   139.99   139.99   839.99   139.99   139.19
Sub-Total 104 REPAYMENTS                         -  606,89   891.13  907.69  2,002.09  2,049.46  2,053.14  2,060.50  2,064.18  2,867,86  2,073.38  2,075.22 1,072.50 1,073,50 1,072.50 1,072500 1,072.50 1,872,54 ]672.s0 1,4725.00
MET FIV(I44                               2,400.11   779.21   274,64  240.62 -1,005.87 -1,120.45 -1,134.13 -1,138.29 -1,139.17 -1,137.25 -1.140.77 -1,142.61  -129.99  -139.09  -109.99  -139.09  -139.89  -139.99  1829.9    92.26
CASH FLOW AFTER F1I4W01G                  1,549.78 26416.09 2,504.02 2,811.61 2,899.37  3,626.04  3,962.11  4,094,95  4,231107  4,275.99  4,268.47  4,266.63 5,269.35 5,269.35 5,269.35 5,269.25 5,269.25 5.229,25 5J269.25 5,582.50
PA  FAMILY 80591S 9FTE9 FI14N46IN4        1,545.78 2.616.09 2,564.02 2,811.61  2,898.37  3,626.04  3,963.11  4,094.95  4,231.07  4,273.99  4,368.47  4,266.63 5,269.35 5,269.23 5,269.25 5,269.3251,269.25 5,369,25 5!269105 5,593.500
October 36' 1983 11104



. -60-
Table 21
PERU
CHANCHANAYO-SATIPO PFlRAL DEVELOPffENT PROJECT
Avocado Farm Model - Production and Inputs
:ALENIIAR YEAS
Without                                             With Prc...ert
Ulit   1 to2           1            ^           3          4         5         6                     l      9 t: 20
CROPFING3 INTENSITY                 Perc-'nt     10.67        2i33         26:67        60        6 26.S 26.6)    26:           2:07          ^.
CROPPING PATTERN
Exisiing Technologo
AVOCADO OLD PLANTING            HA         0,60              -           -          -          -         -         -          -
AVOCADO NEWJ PLANTING           HA             -
HAlZE                           hA         0.50              -           -          -          -         -         - 
BANANA NEW PLANTING             HA             -             -           -          -          -         -         -
BANANA 0l[D PLANTTNG            HA         5 '!0
Sub-Tditl EXIEtiMg Te hn0leV Ai:!s:           1.0              ---                                         -         -          -          -
Nep Technol1ut
AVOCADO OLD PLANTING            HA             -          ,.,AO0      %0 O        .o 0     0.60      0.60      0.60       0,60       0.SO       0.60
AV)OCADO NE4 PLANTING           HA             -          t 40        1.40       1 4C       1 40      1.40     1.40       1.40       1.4C       1.40
MAIZE                           HA             -          0.50        1.0i       1.00       1.9c     1i00      1,00       1.00       1.00       1,00
BANANA NEY Pr.ANTING            HA             -          0,50        0. 0      O.iO        0.s50C   0 5C     9.350      0.50       0.50       0.50
BANANA OLD PLANTING             HA             -         0.50         0.50      0.50       0.50      0,50      Q50        Q.50       0.50       0.50
Sub-Total New Technclog1   Area                              3,50        4,00       4.00       4.00      4,00     4.00       4.0C       4m:'0       4.00
Total CROPPING AREA                               1.60          3.50        4.0        4.00       4.00      40,40 4,00          4.00       4.00       4.01
MAIN PROIIUCT.WN
AVOCADO                            KGS    2.400,00      2.400,00   2-700,00  3.000.00  8,9OO,00 ?Y200 00 9.900,00 10-600,00 11,300,00C 1.9000,00
MAIZE                              KrS      850,00         90qo1r 3     .850.0  *'950, O0  2003.OO  0w,01^O.  2-00 00   24000,,0   2.000,00  2OOO ?Q0
BANANA                            KGS     3.000,00      3,250,00   6F500.0Q  7.00000  7?500,00 7.750,00 5S000.00  9S000,00   ,000,00  9.q-000.00
INESTHMENT
INPUTS
E,uirment                     SOLES            - Ji3'6.000,00 290,000.00 90!0000if  90.000,00
La.id Frersratior:              HA             -         2.60            -          -          -
Plants                        PLANTS           -       35000         56.00     56.00           -
Fertilizer                     KriS            -       260-00^     520 Q      37 10.O    390,00
Chemicals                      KGS             -         2.60        5,20       5.iO       5.20
LABO RF
Lkibor                       MANDAYS           -       106.00      125.00    122.00    114,00            -         -         -
OPFRATING
INPUTS
SACKS                         SAChS       16,00         23.00       28,00      56.00      70.00    70,00    70.00        70,00       000 Q     0.00
FERTILIZER                     KIiS            -        135,)0      197.50    325.00    325.00   325.00   325.00    3250,0    325.00    325.00
CHEMICALS                      KGS             -         2.70         4. 20      700       7.00      700       7  00        .00      7 . 00     7 . 00
MAIZE SEED                     KGS        17,50          17.50       35.00      35,00      35.00    35,00    35.00       35.00      35.00      35. 5
BANANA                        PLANT       35,00        385.00      425.00    150.00    150.00   150.00   150,00    150.00    150.00    150.00
LABOR
LAPOR                        MANDAYS      62,70         137.60      170.10    1?99.20    200.20  'i21,60   237.00    237.00    2 00    237,00
Setptember 139 1983



'-61-                                                                           Table  22
PERUI
OMCAMMYD-S6TIPD RURAL. DEVELDPMENT PROJECT
Avocado Farm model -Financial Budget
(J4A SOLES  MO0)
CALENDAR YEAR
WI t6et                                                                             With ProAct
1    2 to19   20          1         2         3         4          5          A          7          8          9         00         11         12,     13 to1I      20
HAIN PRODUCTION
AOCGADO                                      264.0  2AO 264,0 U 6O       264.UU   297,00   331.1 90.00 99(0 ,012,00  o,0U9,0U  1,166.00  1,243.00  i,379,0U  1,320-0U  1.320.00  1,320.00 1,320.UO 1.320,00
40000                                        191,25  091.22) 190.22    405.01   427.50   450.00   450.00    450.00    450UO0    450.00    450,00    450,00    450.OU                450.00     450,00   450.00   450.U0
804A0A                                       360.00  360.0U 360,00    3900.00   700,0    RADIO 000.00    930,00    960,00    060.00    960,00    960,00    406000    06,0.0                    960.00   OUU.00    960,00
Sub-Total "IA PRODUCTION                        815.25  005.2  015,25  1,0590.0  1.504,50 1,620.0 2,329.00  2,392.00  2.,A99,00  2.57U,OU  2,653.00  2.730.00  2,730.UO  2,731100  2,730.00 2,730.00 2.730,00
DROS  VALUJE OF0 PRODUICTI0N                    815,25  815,2!; 015,25  1,059,00 1,504.50 1,20200 2.329,UO  2,392.UO  2,499,01  2,576,00  2,653,00  2,73U,00  23073,OU  2.730,00  2.730,00 2,730.00 2,730,00
MET t)ALIJF OF PRODUCTION                       815.25  IlOu 2.5 8102.22  1!U59.OU 1,514.50 1,620.0U 2,329,00  2,392.00, 2.499,00  2.576.00  2.053 00  2.730,00  2,730,00  2,730,00  2,730 00 2,730.00 2-730,00
ToA,l I*LOAS                                    805.72, 002.75 812,25  1,059.00 1.504,50 1,620.02 2,320.00  2*392,00  2,409.00  2,276.00  2,653,00  2,730.00  2,730.00  2,73,0.1   2.730.00 2,730.00 2,730.00
OOTFLOWS
INPUTS
Eauapsert                                   -                -1,876,30   290,00    90.00    90100                -          -          -                     -          -          --                   -         -
Piarts                     -        -       -   ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~350.00    56.00    S~OUl  - -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -         -
09.  [l,zer                                 -                       7.20   314.40    85.80    15,801                                                                                            
chniels                                              -      -      13:02     26.00    26.00    26.00            -           -                     -          -          -          --                   -         -
SUb-T,ctail INPUTS                                                             4R6-2.200 4004  257,80   201.00      --BO                                                                                     
10P0R
Labor                                       -               -     212,00   250,00   244,00   220.00             -           -          -          -                     -          --                   -         -
Sub-TqLe' ONUESTMUAT                               -       -       -  >74270O   736,40   501.00   429.92               -          -                     -          -          ---                             -         -
DPF1ROTI4$
SOLoS                                   6.40    0,40   6.40         9.20    11.23      22-40    21.00       20.00      20,00      21.00      208.07     20.00      28.00      20.00      20,00    20.00    20.01
F0P'DLOZE0             -       -       -      29,70    43.42  ~7,50    71,50           71.50   ~l.50         70,50      71.5       p,0        71,50      70,50      71,50    71,50    71.50
fLHFMTLA1_                                                         1    3',20    21.00    32,00    320       5:00      35,100     32100      35,00      35,00      35 00      35 00       351.00    35,00    35.00
9000  00                             6.50    6.56    ,6          6 56     13.2      13.02     0.2        0,7        11          32        1.2 13.12  1311                   31        1,7       1.1        30
970744                        ~~~~~~~~~1 05    1 OS   1 75  11~55    12.'!;   4 50      4 50       4.50       4.50       4.30       4.50       4,50       4,50       4.50       4.50      4,50      4.50
ZbT2IUp!T0                            4:401   140:~ 04 0:        '021   101.52   146.52   152.13    152,13    152,13   1,52.13    152.10    152 13    152.13    152.03    152.103   152.00   :52.12I
LABRP                                 025.AC, 125,40 12540        '5,20   340,20   398.40   412I40    443,20    474,00          474.00    474,00    4?6,00    474 00    9474U0    474.00   476,00   474,00
;-so-Tst2i OPER4TINO                         139 40  13?,41 139,41    345,71   441,72   544,93   56022I    `95,33    020.13    626.10    626,13    620.13    626,13    026.13    626.10   r26.13   626.10
-~b-T.htalI 'P002TI0A C001                      139,41  139,41 139,41  3,007,91 0.0,70,12  .016,72   994,32    505.33    626-13    726.13    626.13    62u.13    620.13    626.13    626,13   62to.13   626.13
T:tol 170:20                                    039.41,  139.41 139 41  3.00.791  1181        .,4,2   994,33    5q5,33    620,13    626.13    620.13    026.13    o26 13    A26 13    426.13   026,13   020.13
10%l _~  ?EFOP0 ~l0C~                            75,04  A75,04 6O5,04 -2,028,91   326,37   573'3.2 1 0.34.07  1,796,67  1,872,87  1,9A9,R7  2,026,87  7.103,07  2,103,U7  ?,103,07  2?100.07 2,103,07 2,173,67
FAPM  ea~   003E10100000 PEFR i740CIN0          675984  075,84 675,84 -2,020,90   326,37   973,29 1,374:67  1-790,67  1,072,87  1,41    2,026.07  2.103,87  2.103,87  2,103,67  2103,07 2.0,7 ,103,0?
11S?VR64EN1'0 99 LONG TERM ~_0AA                  -        -       -  7.40/00    662,76   450.62   306.82              -          -          -          -          -          -          -- 
''6RUR'ME,'TS C'a tIOPT TEP9 LOAN            111.53  0111,53 I1l S3    276.57   353.30   435,04    41.162    476.26    200,90    50,0              50900,0,90             00,1      50~         0,0 50S            50
7p144qF0  FIrM P1077760 ;FQ11f               37,69   280  2',90          69,14    00.34   100.90   112.96        119,07     125,22    125.22    125.221    125.2-2    125,22    127,22    125.22   122.22   125.22
E-0 TPAM00E9  13 'E'7iT   0                  27,88   2'.R         -      08,34    106.98   112,96   019 07    025.22    125.22    125.22    125M2            025.22    125,22    125.22    125.22   125,2'
0u STO4 000410 F 00 O14NCE                 111.53  111.53 139,41  2'175,35   495:50   003.64   832.28    470.10    500,90    500,q0    500,90              500.90    500,90    500,90    500,90   500,40 o2.
_O40 TE'a 'P1INCI%.                              -        -       -          -         -         -         -    403,31    4o3,01    533.38    613,39    705,39    811.20    932,802  1,072,81             0,00      0,00
:2.41 TF;'  TY',00 R-                                                 -T       -        -                         830.43    709,93    700.30    02U.35    528,34    422.53    300.85    160,92    -0,00    -0.00
StAT TEROO  PI1C11%L                              -  11153 100.53             -    76,57   353,38   435,94    451,6         476,26    500.00    566.00        500,90     500,96     500,90    500,90   500,90   5210.q0
3400T ~16a TFRk0T                                 - 1113   it115              -     27.66    35.34    43,59        45,00      47.63      50.09      50,09      50.09      50,09      50:09      50.09    50,09      50.09
luD~-T)tl LJtO  0004990075                            -1122.68 1,22.68           -   304,2,    308.72   479,53  1730.52  1.757,62  1,784.73  1,784.73  1,784,73  1,704,73  1,784.73  1,784,73   550,99   550,99
400 11441141'9                                   Ill 23  -01,12   10,73  2-725,35   691,27   494,92   357,72 -1,260.42 -1,256.72 -1,7.83.83 -1,203.63 -1,283.03 -1,283.83 -1,283.83 21,283,80   -50,09    75.13
1ASM -L1  AFTEP FINANLINO                       787,37  664.68 692,57    096.44 1,017.65 1,068,20 1,687,.42    536,26    616,15    666.05    743.05    820.05    820,05    8200O5    820.05 3,0517,7  3.029,01
RARA 0R00LY ?REPEITS AFTER, FINAOOCINO          787,37  664.68 692.57    696.44 1.017,65 1,01.8.20 1,087.42    536.26    616,15    666.05    743.05    020,05    020,05    920.05    620,05 2,053,76  ,790
2' t4e: 20, 0~99 10 '02



-62-                                              Table  23
PEPE
CHA?yAIHAM -SAT71PC  URAL DEVELIPPE)4T PPO!ECT
Pineapple Farm Model - Production and Inputs
rPLENDAtR YEF
Yithouvt                                               YJth P!Cjfct
Unit      I *a 20      1          2          3          4         5         6                   8 G             l@1W 
======= ===z_ ==== z==  ====== =_==    -=r  === ==== ==: ==:          = ...sss  zss==s    = ... s= ...xz=ss   _         _sw
CROPPIW6 INTENSITY                  Ptrcent        13,33      13.33       23.33     30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00      30.00     30,00     30.0t    3.3
CROPPTNF PATTERN
Existing T.c1ntolot4
PIIEAPPLE OLD PLANTING           NA           1.00          -           -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
PINEAPPLE NEY PLANTING           HA              -           -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -
MAIZE                            HA           0,50          -           -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
'((P;A                         NA            1IC           -          -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         _
Suk loal Existing Techo1wio   Pie2 2AiC--00                     -          -         -         -  
1 - T.chno1ogt.
PINEAPPLE OLD PLANTINS           HA              -       1.00        1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00       1.0       1.5       I A
PINEAPPI.E NEW PLANTING          HA              -           -       0,50      1.50      1.50      1.50      1,50       1.50      1.50      1.       1.o
MAIZE                            HA              -       0.50        1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.0       1.0       1.5       SA
YUCA                             HA              -       0.50       1.00       1.00      1.00      1.00      1,00     1I00       1,00      1.0        to
Sub-Total New Tchnm2oft  Areia                      -       2.00       3.50       4.50      4.50      4.'0      4.50      4.50      4.50      4.3        4.3
Total CROPPING AREA                                 2,00       2,00       3.50      4.50       4.50      4.50      4-50      4.50      4.50      4.3        4.3
MAIN PRODINTION
PINEAPPLE                          KOSS     12t000,00  12,670,00  13.330.00 209000,00 33,005.00 34465.00 36,330.00 37V3.00 3SN5.0 3R93.US   414mh
HP!ZE                              KGS         850,00     900.00   1,850.00  1t950-.00  2,000.00  2,000.00  ',000,00  2.000.0)  2,e.00  200.0   2.0J
YUCA                               KOS       3,500.00   3p750.00   7f,50,00  P,250.00  8,750.00  9,000.00  90W.00 9o.00000 9oe 000 *,oot            9*,eSJ
IN IEST*:NT
IN~IPTS
Eauipment                      SOLES             - 976,000,00 295M000.00 95t000,00 95.000,00
Land Pr"?arat.ar                 HA              -       1,00        15           -         -         - 11SO
Plants                       TH, PLANTS          -      40.00      60.00          -         -         -
Fertilizer                     KNS               -     200.00      300.00         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
chet. tas                      KitS              -       3. DC      45            -         -         -         -
LABOR
Labtor                        MADAYS             -      29.00      44.00          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
OPERATTNG
INPUTS
SAC$S                          SACKS         64.00     10500      140.00    220.00    260.00    .'6000    2AO.00    260.00    26.40    3.0          US
FERTILIZER                      K5s5             -     137.50     225.00    325.00    325.00    325.00    325.00    325.00    325M.0      MM.    lAO
CHEMICALS                       K(iS             -       3.MD       5 00       7,00      7.00      7,00      7.00      7.00      7;0        7,0       7.3
PINEAPPLE SUCKERS           TH, SUCKERS      10100      10.00       15.00    25.00      2!.00     25.00     25.00     25.00     25.00     25.0      2L.0
M4zI7E SEED                     KtiS         17?50      17,50       35.00     3S500     35,m0     35.00     35,00     35.00     35.00    I5.06       3
YIUCA CUTTINGS              TH. CUTTiNGS      4,00       5.00      10.00       10,00     10.009   10.00      10.00      10.0 o    10.     10        19.00
LPAOR                         MAtDAYS       127,50     138.50     235.50    309,50    315,50    315.50    315.50    315.50    315.50    315.3    -tSJV
Stttrem   I t! !9S ?3  1It



-63-                                                                       Tb22
CNSWD"T-SATIPO RIMSL NVEL~908  PR8CT
Pineapple Farm Model - Financial Budget
(IN WAS '0001
EMLFn TEAR
Without                                                                With, PnJnrt
1    2 to19      20      1        2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9       00       10       12  13 to09t20
MAIN PROBTION
PINEAPPLE                                948,00  948,00  948.00 1.090,93 1,052,07 1,580.00 2,607.39 2,738.53 2.870,07 2,949,46 3,028,46 3,107,07 3.160.00 3P160.00 3,160 ON 3,140.00 3,160.80
MAIZE                                    191,23  191,21   191,25   405.00   427.50   450.00   450.00  450.00  450.00  450,00   450.00  450.00  450.00  450.00  450.00  450.00  450.00
100*                                     315.00   315S0    315.00   337,50   697,50   742.50   787.50  810.00   810.00   810.00   810,00   810,00   810.00  8 1000  810.00  810.00  611,00
Sub-Total MAIN PRDLOTZON                  1.454,25 1,454.25 1,454.25 1,743.42 2,l78.07 2.772,50 3,04.89 3;998.53 4.130.07 4,209.46 4,288.46 4.367,07 4.420,00 4,420.00 4,420.00 4,420.00 4,428.20
GROSS VALUE OF PROENrT!ON                 1,454,25 1,454,25 1,454.25 1,743.43 2,178.07 2,772.50 3,844.89 3,910.53 4.130,87 4.209.46 4,200.46 4,367.07 4,420,00 4,426.00 4,428.00 4,420.00 4,420.00
NET VALUE OF MROOITIDN                    1,4%4.,25 1,454.25 1,454.25 1,742.43 2,178.0? 2,772.50 2,844.89 3,990.52 4,130.07 4,209.46 4,28M,46 4,367,07 4,420,00 4.420,00 4,420,00 4,420.00 4,420.80
Total 1I01005                             1,454.25 1,454.25 1.454,25 1,742.43 2,178.07 2,772.50 2,844.89 3,99.52 4, 130, 07 4.29, 46 4.23M.46 4,367,07 4,420,00 4.420.00 4,428.00 4,420.00 4,420.00
OUTFLOWS
MRDOETION COST
Eauipmot                                -                -76.00 295.00  95.00    95,00O-                              -        -       -                                    
Land Preouratiom                                              ?    0.00   125,00   -        --                        -        -       -        -        -       - 
Plants                                  -       -        -160.007240.00            -        -        -       -                 -       -        -       -        -        -       -
Fortiliz4r                              -        -       - 44.00   66.00           -        -        -       -                 -       -        -        -       -        -       -
Chonocalo  ~      ~           --------       ------------     -- ----    -   - 15.0-2,50-    -   -   --- ---          -        -       -        -       -        -        -
Sub-Total 1I01TS                                              i    ,285. 00   758.50    95.00    95.00 -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
LABOR
Labor                                   -                   580100  8.00           -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
Sub-Tital INVEZSTMN8T                         -        -       -1,343.00   844.50    95.00   95.0         -                                  -        -       -                   
OPERATING
INPUTS
SACKS                               25.60   25.60    25,60   42.00    36.00   88.00  184.00   184.00  184.00  104.00   184,00   104,00  104.00   184.00  104.00  184.00   104.00
FERTILIZER                              -        -       -   30.25   49.50   71.50    71.50    71.50    71.50    71,50   71,50   71.50    71.50    71.50    71.50   71.50   11.50
CHEMICALS                               -        -       -   15.00   25.00   3S.00   35. 00   35. 00   25.00    35.00   35.00   35.00    35,00   35.00   35.00    35.08    35.00
P1INEAPPLE SUICKERS                 10.00   10.00   10,00    10.00   15.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00   25.00    25.00   25.00   25.00   25.80   25.00
MAIZE SEED                           6,56    6.56    6,56    6.36    13.12   13,12   13.12   12.12   12,12   13.12    13.12   13.12   12.12   13.12   13.12   12.12    131.2
Y1JCA CUTTINGS                       3,80    3.00    3.00    4.75       9.50   .9.50    9.50    9.50    9.50    9,50    9,50    9,50    9,50    7.50    9.50    9.50    9.50
3.6.-Total INPUTS                      45.96   45,94   45,96  100.54   160.12  242.12  258.12  258.12  258.12  250.12  258.12  250.12  258.12  258.12  258.12  258.12  258.12
LADRR
LAOR                               255,0   255,00  255.00   277.00   472.00   619.00  631.00   631.00  631.00  631.00  621,00  631.00  631,00  631.00  631.00  631.00  631.00
Sub-Totul OPFROTINO                      300,96  300,96  200.96   385.54   639.13  061.12  889,12  889.12  889.12  889.12  889.12  889,12  8189.12  309.12   88912  889.12  889.12
Sob,-Tol.l PROTDIJTION COST                 300.96  300.96  300.94 1,720.36 1,405.63   956.13  904.12  889.12  889.12  889.12  889.02   889.12  889,12  889.12  889. 12  889.12  8M9.12
Total OUTFLOWS                              300.96  300.96  300.96 1,728.56 1,485.62   956.13  984.12  09. 12  889. 12  88.12  889. 12  88.12  88912  889.02  189.12  88912  089.12
CASH FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                1,153.29 1,152,29 1,153.29    14.87  692.44 1,816,37 2,86077 3,109.41 3,240.95 3.320,34 3,299.34 3,477,94 3,230,87 3,50.87 3,520.87 3,530.87 3,530.87
FARM FAMINLY BENEFITS BEFORE FINANCING    1,153.29 1,152,29 1,153,29    14.87  693.44 1,016.37 2,860.77 3,109.41 3,240.95 3,320.24 3.399,34 3,477.94 3,530.87 3, 530.87 3,530.87 3,530.87 3,530.87
FINANCING
SOURCES OF FINANE
DISDOSNETS ON LOW TERMNLDMN                   -       -        -1,200.79   761.85   05.50   85.50         -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
D1S00RSNENTS O900SOT TERN LOAN           240.77  240,77  240,77  208.45   511.30  688.90   711.30   711.30   711.30   711.30  711.30  711.36   711.30   711.30   711.30   711.30   711.30
TRANSER FF00 PREVICOUS PERIOD             60.19   60.19   60,19   77.11  127.82   172.25   177.82  177.82   177.82   177.82   177.82   177.82  077.82  177.82   177.82   17.7.82   177.82
LESS TRANSFER TO NEXT PERIOD              60.19   60.19        -  127.82   172.25   177.82  177.82   177.82   177.82   177.82   177.82  177,82   177,82  177.82   177.82   177.82       -
Sub-Total S0110ES OP FINANCE                240.77  240.77  300.96 1,466.44 1,228.75   768.00   796.00   701.30   711.30   711.30   711.30   711,20   711,30   711.30  710.30  711.30  889.12
LIMO TERN PRINCIPAL                           -       -        -        -       -        -        -  228.71   253.82   291.89   335.67  386.02  443,93   500.52  587.09    0.00    0.00
LONG TERN INTEREST-                                   -   -        -            -        -        -  454,45  421.34   383.27  339.49   289,13   231,23  164.64   88.06   -0.00   -0.00
SMOT TERN PRINCIPAL                           -240.77  240.77           -300.45   531.320  688.90   713.30   711.30   711.30  711,30  713.30   711,30   733.38   711.30  711.30  711.30
SHORT TERN INTEREST                           - 24.08   24,00           -    0.84    51,12   60.89    71.12   71.03    71.13   71.13   71.03    71,13   71.13   71.13   71.13    71,13
Sob-Total LOAN REPAYMENTS                        -  244,82   264,85        -  339.29  562.43   757.79 1,457.59 1,457.59 1,457,59 1,457,59 1,457,59 0,457,59 1,457,59 1,457.59   M82,43  7M243
NET FINANCING                               240,77  -24.00    36.12 1,466.44   889.45  206.37   39.01  -746.29  -746.29  -746.29  -746,29  -746.29  -746.29  -746.29  -746.29  -71.13   106.69
COON 11.06 AFTER F2OAINCZ                 1,394,06 1,127,21 1,189.40 1,402.30 1,583.90 2,022.74 2,899.78 2,363.12 2,494.66 2,574.05 2,653.05 2,731.66 2,784.59 2,784.59 2,784.39 3,459.74 3,637.57
FARM FAMILY BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING      1,394.06 1.129,21 1,189.40 1,401.30 1,581.90 2,022.74 1,899.78 2,363.12 2,494,66 2t574,05 2.653.05 2,731,66 2.784,59 2,784.59 2,784.59 3,459.74 3,637.57
Octo,ber 26. 1983 11l19



-64-                                            Table  25
P-U
CEhNCIaAcl-SATIP   ttLDVOP83TPROJECT
W8. wujlia)
rMLO TM8
2            3             4             5             6             7             8             9            :7           11            --14t~2
209701.                               ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~132.30000    624.750,00  1.436,400.00  2.633.400.00  3,030,40000  5,027,400,0   0,144,700.00  6.079,7S0,0   0,005,300.00  0.0.34400505,000.OC E.o,5 ol.00 0,5050.1 0.52.7
I'l2,                                             2,122.312.50  1,930,500.30  1,738,687.50  1,423,125.00  1,423,1225.00  1,423.125.00  1,423,120.00  1,423,125.00  1.420.125.50  1.42321205.0   1, 423.125,A   1.423,25.00  1, 423.12 5.71  1,42372-7.0
6~~~~~~~i6 ~~~~~~~~~11,700.00                        72,900.00    461,700,00  1,433,200.00  2,463,600,00  3.480.300.00  3.725,700,00  3.990,400.00  3,9U,300.30  4.020.000.70  4.1Q.22O.22  4.220.00,94,00  .20.000.l1  6,720.70v.1
C21901S                                                            01,280.00    43,123.00     90,240.00    270.720,30    721,920.00  1,339,240.00  2,036.040,31  2,425.200.20  261.?10.90.0  2,73-,421.00 2.a23.080.00  2.020.400.12  2.8022.00.11
900919                                                       -    200,340.00    629,300.00    794,750.30  I.210,950.00  1.368.80.00  1.339,300.00  1,672,63.0,0  1,745,350.40  1.782.000.20  1,702.000.0   1,702.2Q0.00  1.782,000.00  I, 7B2,lO:~. 31 
YLTo                                                  3,600.00    72,000.00    262.800,00    4752300.00    694,8000.00    741,800.00    781,200,00    792,000.00    792,000.00    792.100,11t   292,100,0.0    792. 2100    792,301.20    792.11C,22
040191                                                       -     1,0320.00     6,6M00.0     40,480.00    227,600.30    216,480.00    311,640.00    336.160,00    366,960.30    394.680,00    413,101.20    422,430.10    422.400.00   422.410022
F18000PLE                                             2,117.20     20,304.40    44,240,00    161,172.00    339,197.30    566,714.40    724,698.62    768,937,00    806.842.80    837D.4000    862,664,20   878,446.40    804,030.2000 84.8217
00b-70041 4A24 P83301TIC8                            2,272,029.70  2,82,60440  4,424.847,50  7,048,570.80 10,380,392.20 13,5333,63.40 23,968,303.60 18,9?99032,00 20,052, 177.82 22,371.162.40 20,533,240.20 22,626,253.41 22. .49.325.00 21 ,0,715.~2,
00000691E OF P92DL1C1IO.                             2,272,029.70  2,82,604.40  4,424,847,50  7,341,370.00 10.380.392,20 23,353,639.40 15.968,303.60 18,999,232.30 20.053,177.80 2.0371.165.00 22,533,340,20 20,626.123,40 20,649.325.00 70,649,72'74C
NET7 .41LLIE   900001T106                            2,272.029.70  2,821.604.40  4,424,847.00  7,0048717.0 13,383,392.20 13,513,639.40  596,06118,999,232,00 23,353,777.81 20,371.165.l11,50,4,020CC;.  20,649.35.5  20.649.3122~3
Octal 1169150                                        2,272.029.70  2,878.604.4   4.424,647.00  7,040,570.40 10,383,391232 13,353,638.4  15,960,303.60 18,993.432,00 20.57.77822.01.s55  27.363.149.21 2C,tls,553.45  2l,049,32S,11 21.s47132,.V
Eo.i-t                                       720,800.00  2,512,450.00  3,311,600.00  3.984,500.00  1.993,700.00    707,550.00   56,400.00--                                                                   -
,ar, Pron,tioc                                696,960.00    776,880.00    92,880.20     92.50.00              -             --                                       ----
lot?.. 8n611,8                                245.3000,00  I, 004,000.00  1.610,000.00  1.730,0D0.00  1,071.000.00    252,000.00  84,000.00--                                                    --
F.,til-o,                                      53.023,00    207,680.30    405.064.00    601,040.30    389,388.00    390,832.00    238,106.30    0.60,00       7.8030---
Plants                                         44,080.00    154,040.00    207,360.00    228,84.0.0    101,640.00    35,300.00     7,200.00             -- 
Elao-al                                         7 120.00     15,200300    15,623,00     27.140,00     33,660.00     29.340.00     29,323.30     7.200,00      7.00.0,0--                                                     --
Plants                                         64.000,00    96,000.00             -             -                    -     --                                        ----
Sit-Total 100510                               1,319.308.00  4.770,250.00  3,842,724.00  6,664,400.00  3,691.080,00  1,4235362.00   323,056.00    30,960.00      7,740.30             --- 
L.bcr                                         107.320.00    413,060,00    700,720.50    879,040.30    704,760.00    337,920.00   1223,040.00   25,840.01             ---
lit-Total 186807808                               1,926,329.00  3,183,610.00  6,343,444.00  7, 563,440.00  4,396,140,00  1.773.202.30    430,096.00  46.800.20      7,740.00                           -             -
0PE36T288
FERTILIZER                                     48.01S.30    231,836.00   404,046,50    563.874.50   624,222.00    644,627.00    653,620.30    057,580.00    657,580.00    637,300.00    057,100.20    657.380,00    057,B080.0    607.380.00
28091191                                       56.203,00    149,4350.0    791,473.00    417,493.00    449,400.00    469,200.00    477,3000.00    4800.00,00    480,0040,    480,380.00    400,000.20    480.000,60    400,000.00    40,0500.20
4A030 ED8                                              -      3,604,37    14,437,50     23,265.62     36,393,72     00,893.72    36.093.75     36.093.75    36,093.72      36.093.75     36,039.72     U00~3, 75     36,093.75    36,090,75
86(0                                            1.436,00     7,334.00     18,188.00     34,156.00     50,512.00     64.288.00    73.060.00     76,960.00     77,680.00     77.6800,0     77,600.00     77.640000     77,6800.0    77.600,22
flW                                             7.780,30     33, 474.30   253n.3850     34.920 .30    27,830.00     29,992.30     22,230.00    21.030,00     21,330.30     21.3300,00    21,300.00     21.,000      71,300.00     11,030.02
914104 SEED                                       778.33     3.110,2B      3,448.24      7,783.20      7,763.20      7,7830       71m.20  7,783.20     7,7M3, 20     7       ,783.0 0  7.783,23   7,78 3.20 7.  783,2  .7320       7,703.23
LIME                                            2,003.20      8,392.00    14,162.40     20.232200     30,232.30     30,222.00    23, 202.00    00,230.00     20.232,00     20.232,00     20,232.01     20,232,00    200.22200     20,202.00
KXS                                     ~      ~~~~~~~- 4,346.40  16,183.60  29,842.20  46,5322,60    51,050.80     33,638.00    5536.03,0     33,638.00     30,638.00     00,o380O    530,63 8.04     35,63.0.0     5536.0800
9840*3UTT15S                                      132.00     1,368.00      4,004.0        ,403          ,100         9,120.00     9.120,00      9,10.0        9,120.3        1000  9       ,912.00 :     1000        9,120.00      910.06
PI08040900  HERS                                       -I0.0               2,0.0         3000.00       4,800.00      6,000.00     0,000.00      6000,00        ,000.00        ON000DO      0000.00     600  0,00        0.0        6000
hab-Total I000S                                   96,390.02    461,19.22    784,337.74  1.163.408.32  1,376,437.33  1,338,422. 72  1,360,476.95  1,370,736,90  1,370.456.92  1.371,456,95  1,371,456.92  1,371,436.93  1.371,4S6.92  1.371,436.95
LAW8                                          268.322,00    638,008.00  1,082,672.00  1,348,62.00  1.801,258.00  1,920,810.00  1,962,372.30  1,982,844.00  1,992,060.00  1,98,5040.0  2,003,020.00  2.00.243.00  _2,011,3020.00  3.011.740.00
hab-Total FUATOM                                    364,712.02  1.099.327.33  1,B47,209.74  2.712,070.32  3,077,695,05 3,259.232.75 3.322,048.95 3,333580.9   3,363,516.95  0,369,996.95  3,373,276.95  0,379,396.95  0,382,476.90  3,003,196,93
Slt-T.otl 950940000  cosy                            2.290.240.02 6.283,137.35 8,410,633,74 10,275.510.52  7,473,833.00  5.032,314.75 3.772.944.95  3.400.380.95  3,371,256.92  3.369,996.95  3,375,276.93  3,379,396.93  3,382,476.93  3,083,196.99
Total UT9FLON                                        2,291.040.02  6,282V,00.2   8,413,633,76 10,272,310.33  7.472.833.03  5,332,314.72  3.772.944.95  3.400.3D0.95  3,372,236.95  3,369.996.95  0,072.276.95  3.379.4 6.93  3,382,476.92  3,083,196,95
-CSf FL08OW nf  F0WX08                                  -19.210.32 -3.84.3532.98 -3,98M,806,26 -3,226,939.72  2.906,337.15  8,521.124.65 12.193,038.65 13,393,631.03 16.681,.92.0  17,001,1680.5 17.138.T72.72 17,246,406.45 17,366.848.05 17,266,1223,03
WOOl                                 d16,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~410.OD -2,386,024..37 -3.034.228,30 -2, 43190.63  1.378,543.75 3,941.356.23  8,334,506.23 13,677,036.23 11,196,866.23 11,228.306.23 11,228,306.25 11,228,306.23 1l.2,38623:112 11.220800.:25
1000                                                106.224,48  -609391.08   -633,248,24   -508.4t1.9      884,026.20  1.727.724.30  2,673.852.80  3,601.381.00  4,096,261,80  4.325.731,80  9,43B,891,8   4.502.33,0I0  4.16.291.90  4.323571900
#A8                                                 22.832,00   -254.872.50  -333,250,00   -357.395.30      67,695.00    049,133.00    409,167.00    482,071.00    313,773.00    543,495,00    561,973.00    371,213.00    371,210.00    07 1,213.00
PIOPPE _ftOD -3'0.   -284,244.10                                                 6,932.00     74,278.30    376,292.20    602,789.40    776,833.60    835,143.30    873,077.80    903,635.00    928.899,20    944,683,40    951,035.00    981,335.00
90-Total FMFS     L 913188ITS005  PlU FI0E            -19,210.32 -3.4U54,32.95 -3,M98314.24 -3.226,939.72  2.9066.57.13  8,521.124.63 12.195,338.68 13,308.631.35 16,681,950.83 17,001,168.05 17,13B,072.23 17,246.456.45 17,266.848.05 17,266.128,00
DetOur 34. 1083 00010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--        -  ----- ---                                                                                                                   --------  - -- 



-65-                            Table 26
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(SI, million)
uw3              .dtu:a     'rt"L   Atctt     l      Fers6ty     YrketIng        ra Set
CogCI          oatS _       stS    1!fita          g_to_e_t_its     _o ISf Its    e5entlcs
1           9212.40      31M1,16    12374,26        3135.40        o000        776.11      3911.51    -8462.74
2          17766.90      86'i.72    2'6437.62       3903.47       931.50        837,94      5672.91   -20764.71
3          14595.40    11606.70    26202.10         6106.29       931.50       884,30       7922.09   -1880,00
4           12439,30    14140.34    26619:64        9727,03       931 SO        958,27    11616.80   -15002.85
5          12654.90    10132.?    22968.79    14324,94            931,50      1033,34    16229,78    -6679.i01
6           6435.40       6F94.8$    13380,26.   18704,02         931.50      1137.1 2    20772.64       7392.38
7           5224.54       522S0.66     7471,24    220362,5         31.50      1230,96    24198.71       16727.48
8            .443.198     46F2.52      7136,50    26219.62        ?31.50      1278343    28428,55    212F2.05
 841,80                 4652.34       54'i4,14    2?673 3?       931,50      136t.23    I99L 6.12    24 4711.FS
10          1287.54      4650.b 6     5938,14    28112.20         931,50      1444.03    30427.73            4549.5?
11          1491:78      46,S7,9       6149.47    28336,02        93t1.0      1444.03    307I1.55    245L1.8
12           841.30      A663.M3      5505.63    28463.38         931,50      1444.03    :  389.41   '253  '3,78
13          1287,.54     4667,r.2      5955.36    28496.06        93115z0    1444.03    30871.597    24916;23
14          2441,22      4667.82      7109.04    28496a06         931.5O      1444.03    30871.59    23762 55
15          1807890      4667f.2      4475,62    284W6,06         931,50      1444.03    30871.59    24395.A7
16          1287.54      4667?.82     5955,36    2496.06         2096,22      1444,03    32036.31 i    260o89
17          1477.?8      4667.62       6 14. 4  80    28496.06   2678,3:8     1444.03    32618.6?    26472.?7
Is           841,80      4667.82       5509.62    28496.06       3259.56      1444.03    33199,65    27690.03
19          1287,54      46670.82      5955 36    28496,06       3841I92      1444.03    33782.01    27826:65
20          1477.98      4667.82       6145.80    28496.06       4428.42      1444.03    34368.51    28222.71
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NFT STREAMS
Bene-
fitS      -                UP lOZ       UP 20%        DOWN 1ox    POWN 20%        LAC, 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAC 3 YE8.
Costs*
l8,563       21 292       24,006          15,784       12:?15            14 529       11,674        9.t20
LP 1OZ            16.040       18.563       21,045          13.445        10.737           12570       10(017         7.'52
tf 2%             13"884       16,2t52      18,563           11.428        8.839           10.844         8,534        6.624
DM#W 1           21.594      124609        27I642          18.563       15,471            16.794       13.554        11,064
POi  20%         21,364       28i7?0       32.291          21,971       18.563            19.475       15.72S        12.936
L    1 YAR           -                          -               -                         18.247       14,119       11.I7c
LA,G 2 YEARS           -                                                -               -                17.854       13. 16
.A6 3 YEiARS            -                                         -                              -            -       17.Z33



-66-
Table 27
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO-SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads: Economic Analysis of First Year Program
Toterani-
Quirimi       Francia/          Union        La Florida
Sur         Sta. Rosa      California      Cooperative   Huahuari
(6)          (7/7a)           (20)          (24/26/27)      (30)
Number of Kilometers                   5.1            9.2             23.4             68.2         25.3
1.    INVESTMENT
1.  Road Improvement Cost (US$'000)
Financial (Base)  a!                  118            96              482            2,560          804
Economic  b/                          123            95              506            2,604          823
A.  Present Value of Economic Cost c/   123              95              492            2,251          823
B.  Maintenance Cost: Present Value
(US$'000)                              10            18               47              136          51
C.  Agricultural Investment:  Present
Value (US$'000)                       163           546            1,143            1,187          317
D.  Total Cost (Present Value) (A+B+C)  296             659            1,682            3,574        1,191
E. Total Adjusted Cost (Present Value)
(US$'000)  d/                         384          856            2,184            4,642        1,546
II.   Agricultural Value Added (AVA) (US$'000)
Coffee                                      5            67              275              490          141
citrub                                      4           199               99              147           22
Pineapple                                 107            -                93               -            -
Avocado                                    -             -                44               -             2
Banana                                       1           29               47              126          202
Papaya                                     15            -                 -              123           33
Total                    132           295              558              885          402
III.  Ratio of Investment/AVA                      2.9           2.9             3.9               5.2         3.8
IV.   Estimated Economic Rate of Return
('X)  e/                                 >18           >  18               16             14 f/        16
a! Excluding Physical Contingencies.
b/ Including Physical Contingencies, engineering and supervision; exclusive of taxes.
c/  Discounted at 12Z.
d/ Investment cost increased by a factor of 1.3 to reflect other project costs (marketing; research; land titling;
project unit).
e/  Utilizing simplified appraisal technique number III.
f/  Analysis includes Yurinaki Bridge.   (See Table 28)
Improvement of roads in this area would take place over years 1 and 2.
SOURCE:  Report of FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, April 1983; mission estimates.
September 13, 1983



-67-
PERU                                Table 28
CHANCHAMAYO - SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of La Florida Cooperative Area Roads and Yurin.aki Bridge
(US$ '000)
Costs                                      Benefits
Forestry
Vehicle         Vehicle
Feeder         Yurinaki   Agricultural       Agricultural    Operating b/   Operating
Year      Roads            Bridge      Investment       Value  Added- Cost Savings-   Cost Savings
1           747             304           543                117              -               -
2         1857              536           287                297              -               -
3            27              -            109                291              73            104
4            27              -             48                368              76            104
5            27              24            19                436              78            104
6            27              24           181                507              80            104
7            27              24            -                 681              83            104
8            27              24            -                 681              84            104
9            27              24            -                 681              85            104
10           27              24            -                 681              86            104
11          27               24            -                681               87            104
12          27               24            -                 681              88            104
13          27               24            -                681               90            104
14          27               24            -                 681              92            104
15           27              24            -                 681              93            104
16          27               24            -                 681              94            104
17           27              24            -                 681              96            104
18          27               24            -                 681              98            104
19          27               24            -                 681             100            104
20           27              24            -                 681             102            104
21           27              24            -                 681             105            104
22           27              24            -                 681             105            104
Economic Rate of Return: 14Y.
a/  Only 77% of total value added included as a `henef it, as the present value of feeder roads,
Yurinaki Bridge, on-farm agricultural investment and on-farm operating costs represent
77% of total project costs. Remaining 23% of agricultural value added benefits assumed
to be atributed to other project costs (marketing, research, land titling, project unit).
b/ For trucks includes only vehicle operating cost benefits derived from normal traffic
generated on farms where production would be the same with or without the project.
Includes benefits from normal and generated light vehicle and bus traffic.
Source: Mission estimates and Consultores CIPSSA
October 1983.



-68-
TABLE 29
PERU
CHANCHAMAYO - SATIPO RURAL fEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Economic Analysis: Feeder Road Component
Economic
Road    Number of      Base       Rate of
Road Name                         Number   Kilometers    Cost          Return
(km)    (US$ '000)      (M)
La Esperanza/Tirol                       3 & 4        10.5         144.1       13
Quirimi Sur                             6             5.1         118.0       >18
Francia/Santa Rosa                       7/7a         9.2          95.5       >18
Quirimi Centro-Villa Dorado             9            25.8         504.2        14
Rio Blanco                               10           9.2         155.7        14
Rio Dolores                              13            7.0         98.8        11
Rio Seco                                 14           2.5          40.0       >18
Pampa Whally-La Esperanza                15            9.1        134.2       >18
Cerro Gavilan                            17           4.9         113.8        17
Villa AmorethlAlto Kimarinil
Pampa del Oso                     18118a/b    22.8          530.7        17
Toterami-Union California/Los
Angeles                           20/20a       23.4         481.8        16
San Chirio/Union Bajo Paloma            22/22a       16.1         350.0        17
YapazlMetraro/Sancachari                 23a/23b     23.7         805.4        12
La Florida CooperativalYurinaki
Bridge                            24/26127    68.2        3,360.7        14
Huahuari                                 30          25.3         803.8        16
Samanaro-Kanariaki                      31           10.1         292.5       >18
Rio Chari-San Jacinto de Shaurcato    33              7.9         147.5       >18
Nazca-Llayla/Corvirialli Buenos Aires 46             22.8         552.4        16
Paurioli                                47             5.7        234.2       >18
Caprirustari                            48            5.1         226.0        15
Teoria                                  51            5.4          99.7       >18
San Jose de Sanamoro                    52            2.8         210.9       >18
Celendin                                53            3.9          95.0       >18
Naylamp                                  54            7.4         148.6       15
Vilcabamba                              56            9.0         192.7        16
Pampa Tigre-Kubantia                    58           18.7         665.3        13
Alto Pumpuriani                          25           11.2        259.3        13
ivionterrico                             8           10.0         115.0        11
Alto Kivinaki- Pichanaki                28           43.9       1,279.2        12
TOTAL                                  426.7      12,255.0
Source: Mission estimates
February, 1984



PERU
Chanchamayo-Satipo Rural Development Project
Project Organization
Executive Director|
Pichis-Palcazu|
Project Director
Chanchamayo-Satipo                          Internal
._________  ___________  Audit
Sub-Director           .                                      Sub-Director
Administrative Services                                        Planning & Evaluation
I      i   m  ~~ccounts &   L|      Supply        l
Personnel         Budget           Support Services
b-Director                      Sub-Director                     Sub-Director
Roads & Buildings     Farm Production Services                Land Titling






,BB) 174BB2
bEPIEMBER 043
P ER U
CHANCHAMAYO -SATIPO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4                                                       ~~~~~~~~~SELVA  CENTRAL
Are,,.o~ B-os,                      t   A,p,or  erod A, f o 6
P,op,-d F-d-e Pe-d                         F.,,,,osPoes  R--eso  A-3o
00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *
0  0~~~~0
6 PA Z I L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      D 



