Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15672
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT
(Loan No. 3703-MK/Credit No. 2564-MK)
May 31, 1996
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
1991   1992   1993   1994
US$1.00     = 00.20   05.10   23.30  43.26
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA                   =      Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAS                   =      Country Assistance Strategy
CMEA                  =      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ERL                   =      Economic Recovery Loan/Credit
FESAC                 =      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
GSP                   =      Gross Social Product
IBRD                  =      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                   =      Implementation Completion Report
IFC                   =      International Finance Corporation
IFI                   -      International Financial Institutions
IMF                   =      International Monetary Fund
LDP                   -      Letter of Development Policy
MKD                   =      Macedonian Denar
SDR                   =      Special Drawing Rights
SFRY                  =      Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SRTAP                 =      Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
STF                   -      Structural Transformation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT
[Loan No. 3703-MK/Credit No. 2564-MK]
CONTENTS
Preface ..................................................   i
Evaluation Summary .......................................... ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT   .................   1
A.    Introduction  ......................................    I
B.     Initial Bank Involvement and Activities  .....................   2
C.    Project Objectives  ..................................   3
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives  ........................   3
E.     Implementation Record  ...............................   6
F.    Project Sustainability  ................................   7
G.    Bank Performance  ..................................   7
H.    Borrower's Performance  ..............................   8
I.     Assessment of the Outcome  ............................   8
J.     Future Operations  ..................................   8
K.    Key Lessons Leamed  ................................  10
PART H. STATISTICAL TABLE   ................................  12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments  ............................   13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits  ..........................  14
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................   14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual   ...  .  15
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants                         .         .        .     15
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................   16
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions  ...........................   16
APPENDIX: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
MAP NO. 27711
This document has a restricted distribuuon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT
[Loan No. 3703-MK/Credit No. 2564-MK]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery
Loan/Credit (ERL) in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for which a loan and a
credit in the amounts of US$40 million equivalent and SDR 29 million (US$40 million
equivalent) respectively, were approved on February 8, 1994 and made effective on
February 14, 1994.
The loan and credit were closed on schedule on March 31, 1995. A single tranche,
made available upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by July 25, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Joseph Pemia (Principal Financial Specialist, EClIT) of the
Europe and Central Asia Region and reviewed within the Country Department I of that
Region. The Borrower provided comments in a letter to the Bank dated May 31, 1996 which
is appended to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's implementation completion
mission on October 23 - November 3, 1995. It is based on material in the project file. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the draft ICR.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT
[Loan No. 3703-MK/Credit No. 2564-MK]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Economic Recovery Loan/Credit was the first operation for the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia following its accession to Bank membership on December 30, 1993
as a successor state to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY).
Presentation of a viable financing plan for the clearance of arrears to the Bank was the main
condition for obtaining access to new Bank assistance. During the second half of 1993, and
following a series of meetings of a support group, chaired by the Netherlands Government,
as well as bilateral discussions, a plan for arrears clearance was firmed up. Arrears to the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) were estimated to be
US$106.6 million and to International Finance Corporation (IFC), US$9.1 million. ERL was
the vehicle that facilitated the clearance of arrears to IBRD. The Government also agreed in
principle to clear arrears to IFC prior to the effectiveness of the next Bank adjustment
operation. I/
Project Objectives
2.    ERL aimed to support the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's program of
stabilization and structural reforms by helping to finance the costs associated with the
restructuring of the economy and facilitating the clearance of the country's arrears with the
Bank. The macroeconomic program was also supported by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) through a drawing on the Structural Transformation Facility (STF). The structural
reform program focussed on initial measures in: (a) fiscal restructuring and retrenchment;
(b) banking sector reform; (c) privatization, enterprise restructuring and private sector
development; and (d) liberalization of the labor market and adjustment of the social safety
net. The financial workout was supported by a group, which provided capital grants from
bilateral donors and bridge-financing from a private foundation and the Netherlands Central
Bank, and was carried out through the Bank for International Settlement.
3.    While the declared primary objective was to support the country's stabilization and
structural reform program, the need to clear arrears with the Bank was an overriding
concern. The operation, therefore, was designed as a single tranche operation, with the
whole loan and credit amounts made available upon effectiveness. Moreover, structural
1/    Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia reached agreement with IFC to repay IFC
loans, including arrears, prior to the effectiveness of the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit.



- iii -
reform measures were meant to be "initial". "Initial measures" referred principally to laying
down the legal and institutional framework for structural reforms. Implementation of
reforms was to be left to a "next adjustment operation", expected to immediately follow
ERL. Actions required under ERL focussed mainly on the submission of some legislation to
Parliament, approval of other legislation by Parliament, provisions of funds in the budget to
cover the cost of the reform program, finalization of terms of reference, issuance of
organizational and work programs, establishment of a task force and similar "initial
measures".
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Although the tranche conditions in themselves were weak and the single tranche was
made available for disbursement upon effectiveness, the Letter of Development Policy (LDP)
was explicit in spelling out the required follow-up actions. To the credit of the Macedonian
authorities, commitments under the LDP were taken seriously both in its letter and spirit.
They followed-through on the approved legislation on the budget, the incomes policy, the
abolition of selective credits, the reform on pensions and labor relations, and completed the
audits of commercial banks as required in the agreed terms of reference.
5.    The authorities also complied with commitments to begin liberalizing the trade regime
by reducing import quotas and auctioning the remaining quotas, as agreed with the Bank.
They also implemented the agreement on price liberalization and price increases for goods
and services identified in the Board presentation condition.
6.   In short, the agreed macroeconomic program was implemented satisfactorily and the
initial measures for structural reforms were not only taken, but pursued further than the
agreements required.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
7.    ERL is a case of weak conditions, but strong results. It illustrates the case where, if
there is commitment by a government to reform, it will take action with or without
conditionality.
8.    However, actual implementation of banking sector reform, privatization and enterprise
restructuring did not progress much. Nor were these required by ERL, since ERL conditions
only required that the legal and institutional framework be put in place. The authorities
complied with the latter conditions. The Law on Banks and Savings Institutions and the
Privatization Law were passed, and a Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) and a Privatization
Agency were established as required. Despite the authorities commitment to proceed with
reforms of banks and enterprises, they were hamstrung by two factors. These reforms were
now more technical, and the required expertise to design and implement them was not readily
available. Second, implementation of these reforms was patently more socially painful and,
therefore, politically more difficult in an election year.



- iv -
9.    The preparation of the follow-up operation, the Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (FESAC), provided the Government with the needed technical support
from the Bank to design and start implementing enterprise, banking and social safety net
reforms. The ruling coalition party's victory at the polls in December 1994 gave the
Government the political capital to proceed with the reforms. Implementation of these
reforms is now progressing well under the FESAC.
10.   Preparation of FESAC, however, was not without problems. ERL was the first
operation of the Bank Group in the new state of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. The overriding concern on arrears clearance and, as a consequence, the
willingness to accept "initial measures" as basis for an adjustment operation provided a bad
example of what Bank assistance stood for. The Macedonian authorities expected the follow-
up operation to be designed in the same manner, with monies being provided on the basis of
agreeing to reform rather than implementing reforms. Moreover, the "follow-up operation"
was perceived to be part and parcel of ERL and was expected to be approved automatically.
It, therefore, took some convincing that FESAC was to support actual implementation of
reforms. To the credit of the Macedonian authorities, once the objectives of Bank
adjustment operations were explained, there was full agreement and support.
11.  In reality, ERL and FESAC belong together as two tranches of one operation. Their
separation resulted in initial missteps in the Bank's relationship with this new member state.
However, the Macedonian government's commitment to reform, the strong political support
it enjoyed, and the Bank's ability to provide responsive and timely technical assistance made
it easy to correct these initial missteps. Bank policies were subsequently clarified, and the
Bank's relationship with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been placed on a
more mature footing.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT
[Loan No. 3703-MK/Credit No. 2564-MK]
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    Situated in the middle of the Balkan peninsula, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia is a small, landlocked and largely mountainous country of about 26 thousand
square kilometers and two million people. Since independence in 1991, former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia has struggled for political recognition by the international
community. Its admission to the United Nations in the spring of 1993 and subsequent
diplomatic recognition by several European countries and the U.S.A. have substantially
bolstered its international standing. Despite major threats to political stability brought about
by hostilities to the north, the blockade by Greece in the south and tensions with its
neighbors, the country has been peaceful and politically stable.
2.    The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's economic problems originated from
policies and institutions inherited from the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY). The causes of poor economic performance were rooted in the Yugoslav system of
enterprise self-management. The stabilization programs of the 1980s were successful in
generating current account surpluses for Yugoslavia, but did not reduce inflation or restore
growth due to their failure to solve the persistent and widespread imbalances at the
microeconomic level. Enterprise governance was vested in worker councils and all important
business decisions, including the selection of managers, were made by these councils. Since
capital was owned by society at large, there was no effective advocate for its preservation
and growth. The primordial concern was employment and wages, resulting in the
decapitalization of unprofitable enterprises. Enterprises were poorly run and incurred losses
which were financed with credits from the banks that they owned and controlled. Banks, in
turn, were supported by subsidized credits from the central bank. These resulted in large
quasi fiscal-deficits that led to a loss of monetary control and sharply increasing inflation.
3.    The initial macroeconomic conditions inherited by the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia provided the Government with little room for economic policy-making. The
country had to make the transition from a system that allowed it to be a net recipient of large
external savings (about 20 percent of Gross Social Product (GSP) until 1991) to one with a
very limited capacity to finance a current account deficit. In the 1991-93 period, support
from the international community was almost absent. The only source of external financing
was through running arrears on repayment obligations. By the end of 1993, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's external debt stood at some US$780 million, equivalent to
30 percent of GDP. There were, in addition, an estimated US$300 million of SFRY debt in
dispute and unallocated at the time.



- 2 -
4.    With the collapse of export markets in the former Council of Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA) area, the loss of "domestic" markets following the dissolution of the
Yugoslav Federation and the imposition of international sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro,
the economy went into a recession. Real GSP in 1993 declined to 50 percent of its 1990
level. The sharp drop in output was not accompanied by a commensurate increase in
unemployment because of formal restrictions to layoffs and the bias against layoffs in the
self-management system. Labor redundancy increased enterprise losses and rendered them
increasingly unable to meet their domestic and foreign financial obligations. Enterprise
arrears caused severe portfolio problems for the largest banks. On the fiscal side, a
narrowing tax base reduced revenues from 48 percent of GSP in 1990, to 37 percent in 1991
and to 28 percent in 1992, although major fiscal efforts reversed the trend to 37 percent in
1993. Only the accumulation of substantial arrears on Government expenditures prevented
monetization of the resulting deficits.
5.    Despite these difficulties, the Government started to take measures to restore stability
and to address underlying structural problems. In April 1992, the Government implemented
currency reforms and initiated stabilization measures that enabled the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia to avoid the hyperinflation of the Yugoslav dinar area. By summer
of 1993, the Government had also started to dismantle the complex trading system of the
past, which incorporated several quotas. The number of goods subject to import quotas was
reduced to 4 percent from 16 percent under the previous regime. Import tariffs were kept
low and ranged from 0 to 25 percent.
6.    The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia also made important progress in
reducing the number of commodities subject to price control. By the end of 1993, the scope
of price control was reduced through the further liberalization of, or the imposition of only a
notification requirement for, the prices of milk, municipal rents and services, water supply,
central heating and motor vehicle insurance. In late 1993, the real prices of electricity and
oil derivatives were increased. The share of commodities with controlled prices were
reduced by these actions to 14 percent in value.
B. Initial Bank Involvement and Activities
7.    ERL was the first Bank Group operation in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia since its accession to Bank membership in December 1993. ERL was the vehicle
that facilitated the clearance of the country's arrears with the Bank and allowed it to obtain
access to new Bank assistance. ERL was also part of the package of international support for
the Government's stabilization and structural reform program which included an IMF STF,
as well as bilateral grants and bridge loans that helped to clear arrears with the Bank.
8.    A first economic mission visited the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in mid-
1993. Findings of this mission provided the basis for the preparation of ERL and the key
elements of a limited Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which were included in the ERL
documentation. A full CAS was issued in April 1995 in conjunction with the presentation of
the second adjustment operation, the FESAC, and a Country Economic Memorandum was
issued in July 1995.



- 3 -
C. Project Objectives
9.    ERL had two main objectives. The first was to support the Government's program of
stabilization and structural measures by financing the costs associated with the restructuring
of former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's economy following the breakup of the
Yugoslav Federation. ERL aimed at supporting initial measures taken by the Govemment to
launch reforms in four key areas: (a) fiscal restructuring and retrenchment; (b) banking
sector reform; (c) privatization, enterprise restructuring and private sector development; and
(d) labor market liberalization and adjustment of the social safety net. The second objective
was to directly facilitate the financial workout to clear the country's arrears with the Bank
with the support of key donors.
10.   Since the reform measures supported by ERL were only to be "initial measures",
ERL was to be followed by a second adjustment operation focussing on enterprise and
financial sector restructuring, once the appropriate macroeconomic framework was in place,
and provided that satisfactory progress was achieved in the implementation of the action
plans described in the LDP. Negotiations with the IMF on a program to be supported by a
Stand-by Arrangement or a similar arrangement were expected to follow as well.
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
Macroeconomic Framework
11.   The stabilization program supported by ERL and the IMF's STF was successfully
implemented. The economy was stabilized quicker than expected, with inflation in 1994 of
55 percent, compared with the target of 70 percent and an inflation in 1993 of 230 percent.
The freely floating exchange rate has remained stable in nominal terms and the black market
premium disappeared. The country succeeded in maintaining net international reserves at the
agreed level despite the outflows related to the clearance of arrears with the Bank. Wage
controls reduced real wages in 1994 by an average of 14 percent.
12.   Monetary and credit growth targets agreed under the STF were met. As agreed with
the IMF and the Bank and in accordance with the Central Bank Act, selective credits were
phased-out as of March 31, 1994, enabling a sharp decline in reserve money growth and in
subsidies to agro-industry. Fiscal performance was better than expected with the reduction in
agricultural subsidies, public sector wages and entitlement under the social programs
(pension fund), increase in sales tax, excise tax and customs duties, and the implementation
of tax reform.
Structural Reforms
13.   Banking Sector Reforms. In the banking sector, ERL intended to support key steps
toward the preparation of a bank rehabilitation plan (implementation of which was to be
supported by the proposed follow-up adjustment operation), as well as stop-gap measures to
stem the flow of losses and prevent a further deterioration of the banks' financial condition.
Two factors were seen as the main causes for increasing the cost of bank rehabilitation. The
first one was the continued extension of denar credits to troubled borrowers. To forestall
this, the Government was to intervene to relieve the banking system of the burden of



- 4 -
supporting enterprises in financial difficulty. As agreed, the Government formed a task force
to review the operations of the 25 largest lossmakers which accounted for the vast majority
of bad commercial bank loans, and to prepare restructuring plans. As restructuring plans are
implemented, banks would be allowed to extend loans only to enterprises that either have
become creditworthy following a financial restructuring, or the Government was willing to
guarantee, if creditworthiness were contingent upon the end of the economic sanctions.
Enterprises that do not meet the above criteria were not allowed to borrow from the banking
system, and were instead to be supported directly by the budget, but only for social reasons.
To this end, one half of the total increase in denar-denominated banking credit allowed under
the monetary program during the second quarter of 1994 was to go to enterprises classified
as those with performing loans according to the audits of the banks.
14.   The second factor was the continuing accrual of interest at the annual rate of
5.5 percent on frozen foreign currency deposits which was estimated to be increasing the
liability of the Government at the rate of about 3 percent of GSP annually. The Government
intended to reduce the interest paid on these deposits and to accelerate the implementation of
the conversion of frozen deposits into state assets through the privatization program. To this
end, a Law on Commercial Properties, allowing the use of frozen foreign exchange deposits
for the purchase of commercial properties, was submitted to Parliament in compliance with a
tranche condition. As agreed, a plan to implement the program to exchange frozen deposits
into shares of enterprises under the privatization program was submitted and, during the
preparation of FESAC, was agreed with the Bank.
15.  In preparation for the bank rehabilitation plan, the Government commissioned
international auditing companies to undertake the financial and portfolio audits of the four
major banks accounting for 95 percent of the assets of the banking system. It also submitted
to Parliament amendments to the Law on Banks and Savings Institutions which provided for
the establishment of the BRA, the agency that would take over ownership of troubled banks,
and appoint new boards of independent directors that would prepare financial and operational
restructuring plans with a view to the privatizating the banks. The Govemment was required
to present a draft of the rehabilitation plan to the Bank by June 30, 1994. Although a formal
plan was not presented, during the preparation of FESAC, a banking sector reform program
was agreed.
16.   To strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework for the banking system, the
Authorities were to: introduce enhanced prudential regulations covering loan classification
and provisioning requirements by June 30, 1994; phase-in limits required in the banking law
on connected credits and large exposures; and improve auditing standards to international
levels. These conditions were complied with, but further improvements in prudential
regulations were deemed necessary, and were required, and are being issued under FESAC.
17.   Privatization, Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development. Parliament
had already passed a privatization law in June 1993 and a privatization agency had already
been established before ERL was prepared. During the preparation of ERL, the Bank team
found the procedures for privatization too cumbersome and slow. The option given to
enterprise insiders to determine the mode of privatization implied an implementation delay of
two years. The required valuation of enterprises added more complication and was seen to
delay the process. Despite these concerns, the Bank team felt that amending the law would



- 5 -
further delay the privatization program because of the time consuming process of consensus
building among conflicting interests. ERL required a somewhat weak condition that the
privatization agency submit to the Bank an acceptable organization and work program,
including budgetary allocation, financing plan and technical assistance plan for 1994. This
condition was met.
18.   Enterprises in public utilities, public works, social services, housing, and land and
forestry management were to remain in the state sector. Nevertheless, these enterprises were
to be converted into companies under the commercial code, and required a clear system of
governance separating the ownership function from the policy and regulatory functions. A
draft law on public enterprises that spell out these principles was to be submitted to
Parliament as a condition of ERL. Moreover, current tariffs for public utility services were
low and controlled, hindering the financial viability of these enterprises. Increases in real
terms of the prices of district heating, electricity and oil derivatives, and liberalization of the
prices for other public utility services were required as conditions of ERL. Both conditions
were met in a timely manner.
19.   The rapid increase in private sector activity suggested that private enterprises enjoy a
reasonably favorable environment in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Nevertheless, additional legal reforms and strengthening of the regulatory framework, as well
as supporting infrastructure were seen to be needed to further improve the environment for
private sector development. A missing key piece of legislation was a commercial code that
would be consistent with a market economy. Thus, under ERL, submission to Parliament of
a new commercial code was a tranche condition. A draft commercial code was submitted to
the Bank, reviewed during the preparation of FESAC and found to be satisfactory.
20.   Labor Markets and Social Safety Net. A key constraint to efficient labor
redeployment in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was the high cost that lay-offs
imposed on enterprises. Enterprises had to bear the cost of financing the training,
purchasing pension credits, financing forced vacations and lump-sum severance payments for
"technologically redundant" workers. Thus, a key condition under ERL was the reform of
this system. A revised draft law on labor relations was required to be submitted to
Parliament. Parliament passed this law which had the following key provisions: (a) the
employer has the right to determine when to terminate a labor relationship; (b) at such time
he should inform the workers, the trade union and the local employment office of the
intention to lay-off workers; (c) workers affected by the layoff should be given a minimum
of six months notice of the intended lay-off; (d) laid-off workers would receive a lump-sum
payment equal to one month's wages for every two years of employment up to a maximum
of 12 months; and (e) payment of the termination grant is the obligation of the employer.
21.   In order to provide an adequate social safety net for the increasing numbers of
unemployed, the Government was to rationalize the present system of unemployment benefit
by submitting to Parliament for approval the following measures: (a) reducing the maximum
unemployment compensation to 24 months; (b) imposing both a floor and ceiling on
unemployment compensation; (c) equalizing benefits of the unemployed due to bankruptcy
with those due to other reasons; (d) stiffening the conditions that disqualify the unemployed
for unemployment compensation; and (e) raising the payroll contribution to 1.5 percent of
gross wages. These measures were passed by the Parliament.



22.   At the same time, the cost of social safety net was already accounting for more than
40 percent of total government expenditures, equivalent to about 13 percent of GSP, and was
open to abuse. The Government saw the need to reform the social safety net by measures
that would enable financial sustainability and target programs that were supportive of
structural reforms. Specifically, as agreed under ERL, it replaced the general price subsidy
on bread to a bread subsidy scheme targeted to families most in need.
23.   The pension system was in a state of crisis, as the Government was unable to fulfill
its obligations and arrears in pension payments were reaching three months. Under ERL,
initial measures to reform the pension system were to be included in a law for submission to
Parliament that would abolish early retirement schemes and increase retirement age, change
the assessment period, reduce the replacement rate, increase the payroll tax, and erode the
pensions by partial indexation. Parliament passed the legislation on the basis of a draft
agreed with the Bank.
E. Implementation Record
24.   Project implementation was highly satisfactory, with agreed actions taken promptly.
The operation was prepared in record time and the Loan/Credit became effective right after
signing which took place a week after Board presentation. The single tranche was made
available for disbursement upon effectiveness and was fully disbursed by July 1994, only five
months after effectiveness. After settlement of Bank arrears, disbursement was principally
for oil imports.
25.   Several factors contributed to the prompt and effective implementation of the project.
First, this was an operation that was a key to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's
accession to Bank membership. Bank membership (together with IMF membership) was a
key political and financial objective of the Government. Recognition by international
financial institutions meant enhanced standing in the international community as well as
access to external financing from institutions which, in the absence of support from other
official and commercial sources, were the only significant source. Bank and IMF
membership were, therefore, seen as critical to the political and economic survival of this
newly independent state.
26.   Although the reform program was designed with the help of the Bank due to limited
institutional capacity in the country, there was clear ownership. The authorities understood
that the stabilization and structural reform measures supported by ERL and the STF were
critical to turn around an economy that was suffering from the vestiges of the policies and
institutions of former Yugoslavia amid a very hostile external environment.
27.   Finally, the measures supported by ERL were preparatory measures, and while
already painful, did not yet carry as much political cost and social pain as the measures being
supported by FESAC. In a sense, ERL was a relatively easy operation to implement.



28.   The Government, however, did not meet the letter of ERL conditions that required
the preparation of studies or strategies under ERL (a bank rehabilitation plan and enterprise
restructuring plans). This shortfall was principally due to a lack of institutional capability
rather than to a lack of commitment to comply. Since the required strategies were developed
with Bank assistance during the preparation of FESAC and the requirements were, therefore,
met in substance, the Bank did not pursue compliance with these conditions literally. It
should, however, be noted that for this young nation, any condition requiring the preparation
of studies or strategies must include technical assistance to ensure compliance.
F. Project Sustainability
29.   The reforms supported by ERL and the STF have so far been successful in stabilizing
the economy. The basic price, trade and exchange rate reforms needed to liberalize the
economy have been launched and have so far remained intact. Moreover, the authorities
continue to be committed to pursue these reforms to the end. The basic legal, regulatory and
institutional framework for the workings of a market economy is in place, although there is
still further need for institutional strengthening. Full fruition on these reforms will depend
on the Government's ability to stick to the agreed macroeconomic path and pursue the
structural reforms in the enterprise, banking and social sectors agreed under FESAC. This
requires continued strong political will even in the face of opposition that may arise as a
result of the pain generated by the reforms themselves. How soon the pain of reform would
result in economic gain for the Macedonians will influence reform sustainability.
30.   In view of the dire conditions inherited by the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, most notably its debt overhang, it cannot complete its reform program without
substantial external financial assistance. High levels of external financial assistance will be
required for the medium term to help sustain the reforms.
31.   Reform sustainability is also highly dependent on external forces outside the control
of the Government. Regional hostilities and the concomitant disruption of the country's
normal trade routes would have to be resolved quickly for the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia to recover economically. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's
economic survival, let alone success, depends, to a large extent, on successful external trade.
G. Bank Performance
32.   The Bank was responsive to the special situation of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. ERL was processed and approved in record time. An economic mission that
visited the country in mid-1993 provided the basis on which this operation was conceived and
designed. Under the chairmanship of The Netherlands Government, the Bank helped to
bring together a support group to assist the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in
clearing its arrears with the Bank and obtaining access to new Bank assistance, despite
diplomatic obstacles created by only partial recognition of the new state and outright
opposition by another Bank member country.
33.   ERL had two explicit objectives, one to support stabilization and structural reforms,
and the other to assist in clearing arrears with the Bank. The latter objective, however,
became overriding and conditionalities related to the former objective were weakened. To



facilitate the latter objective, the operation was designed as a single tranche operation,
despite the fact that reform measures would have taken time to implement. ERL's first
objective was confined to supporting "initial measures" which amounted to weak conditions,
such as drafting laws, passing laws, preparing action programs and submitting terms of
reference.
34.   Supervision of the project was overshadowed and subsumed under the preparation of
the follow-up adjustment operation. Since it was a single tranche operation not enough
attention was given to following up on commitments made in the LDP. A draft of the law
that was submitted to the Bank as a tranche condition was not even reviewed. It was
subsequently reviewed and discussed with the authorities in the context of the follow-up
operation as the tranche had already been released. Moreover, the transfer of responsibility
for the country from EC2 to EC1 resulted in the supervision responsibility "falling between
the cracks".
H. Borrower's Performance
35.   Despite weak conditions and lack of supervision, to the country's credit, the Borrower
faithfully pursued the commitments made in the LDP, both in letter and in spirit.
Implementation of agreed actions was timely and was pursued vigorously although the single
tranche had already been made available for release. Such a commitment and ownership of
the reform program were remarkable resulting in the successful implementation of the
stabilization program and initial successes in structural reforms.
36.   The Borrower was a willing client. Cooperation was excellent throughout preparation
and into implementation. The Borrower was convinced that the measures required by ERL
were critical not only in laying the basis for economic recovery, but also in achieving their
political goal of recognition by the international community.
1. Assessment of the Outcome
37.   ERL's outcomes are as were expected at appraisal. It served to clear the country's
arrears with the Bank and facilitated its accession to Bank membership. With the IMF, it
supported the successful implementation of the agreed stabilization program. It established
the basis for structural reforms which are now being implemented under the follow-up
adjustment operation, FESAC. However, due to a hostile external environment, the country
continues to suffer declining output and increasing unemployment. Sustainability of
economic reforms will depend, to a large extent, on how soon the regional conflicts that
severely impact on the country are resolved and how much support the country gets from the
international community to enable it to turn around its economy.
J. Future Operations
38.   Although the reforms initiated under ERL and implemented under FESAC have gone
a long way in stabilizing the economy and mending major structural defects in the old
enterprise, banking and social safety net systems, to induce an economic recovery, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia needs to go further and address other policy issues,
such as the course of real wages in the economy, completion of trade reforms, phase-out of



- 9 -
agricultural price interventions, extending privatization to the agriculture, mining and forestry
sectors, domestic resource mobilization, and further rationalization of social services. The
following policy areas emerge as priorities for the authorities, in which the Bank is also well
placed to help:
(a)   Intemational Competitiveness of Labor. While circumstances and the reforms
in recent years have forced a reduction in real wages, the reductions might not
have been sufficient relative to the loss of transfers from the former Yugoslav
federation and to the high unemployment levels in the country. Compared to
labor productivity in industry, real wages were still high at the end of 1994,
and more than twice those in Bulgarian state enterprises and five to ten times
more than those in Albania, Belarus, Ukraine or Moldova. If real wages
continue to exceed productivity for long, the country's export competitiveness
would be eroded. This is critical since former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia's economy is heavily dependent on extemal trade.
(b)   Rationalization of Trade Policy. While the country has removed some
quantitative restrictions, it still maintains others, including seasonal quotas,
albeit auctioned, on the export of about 130 products to ensure sufficient
supplies locally, and on the import of 120 food, raw materials and industrial
products to protect domestic producers. These quotas need to be removed for
the trade regime to provide efficient signals to producers, especially in
agriculture.
(c)   Agricultural Policy. Agricultural policy remains complicated by selective
special import levies (on wheat, wheat flour, milk and cheese), reference
prices and production and credit subsidies directed mainly at wheat, sunflower
seeds, sugarbeet, rapeseed oil and fluid milk. Export taxes have also been
proposed for wine, lamb and fruit and vegetables, but have not been accepted.
At the same time, there is a 4 percent export subsidy on lamb and grapes/wine
and 3.2 percent on fruits and vegetables. The main beneficiaries of the
protection system seem to be the socially-owned agro-kombinats, which farm
about 30 percent of arable land, account for 25 percent of total production and
dominate marketing and processing.
Engendered by the economic protection system, as well as political support,
the agro-kombinats dominance at the input and marketing ends of agriculture
has stymied the development of the private sector. Privatization of agro-
kombinats has the potential to foster efficient agriculture through greater
competition. This can only proceed with strong government commitment to
dismantle the economic and political preferential treatment of agro-kombinats
and to deal with the issue of socially-owned land.
(d)   Domestic Resource Mobilization. To finance investment requirements, the
country must also induce domestic savings, which declined in recent years as
output and employment dropped. Savings also could not grow when real
deposit rates remained negative, nor could they be intermediated by the
banking system which lost its credibility among the population when foreign



- 10 -
exchange deposits had to be frozen. The public sector will also need to raise
its savings by containing current spending since the ratio of public revenues to
GDP is already very high. There is scope for further reductions in
agricultural and export subsidies, pensions and public sector employment.
(e)   Social Sector Reform. Although reforms in this sector under the ERL and
FESAC have achieved better targeting of social services and short term
financial balance, further adjustments are needed to protect the most vulnerable
segments of the population and to achieve financial sustainability. Social
transfers still account for a large proportion of fiscal expenditures, and arrears
in social benefit payments continue to arise from time to time. Benefits have
to be rationalized while protecting the poor. Financing has to be restructured
to foster financial sustainability.
39.   The current CAS for former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia proposes the provision
of BOP assistance to the Government every year for the next three years until the country's
foreign debt arrears are cleared and a sustainable financing level is reached. The proposed
adjustment operations will be used as vehicles for assisting the authorities in tackling these
policy issues.
K. Key Lessons Learned
40.   The preparation and implementation of ERL have provided several key lessons:
(a)   The objectives of facilitating arrears clearance with the Bank and
supporting economic reforms should be clearly distinguished and probably
separated. Clearance of arrears with the Bank was required before the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia could avail of new Bank assistance. It was,
therefore, urgent since, with no access to commercial creditors and very little
support from official donors, the International Financial Institutions (IFI) were
the only source of external financial assistance for the country's economic
reform program. Implementation of reform measures, however, required
more time. There was, therefore, a problem of synchronizing the twin
objectives of ERL. The project attempted to resolve this problem by focussing
on arrears clearance and requiring only "initial reform measures" which
consisted mainly of agreements to act on reforms rather than actions
themselves. In retrospect, this proved to be a weakness of project design
because it raised unrealistic expectations for the Macedonian authorities, who
were dealing with the Bank for the first time. This design weakness was
compounded by leaving implementation of agreed reforms to a "follow-up
operation", seemingly committing the Bank to another operation. Preparation
of the next operation (FESAC) was initially hamstrung by the unrealistic
expectations on the part of the Macedonian authorities generated by ERL about
the automaticity of the "follow-up operation" and the type of actions that
would suffice to enable the Bank to provide further assistance. In hindsight,
ERL should have been designed as a two-tranche operation, to clearly separate



- 11 -
the two objectives, with the first tranche devoted to arrears clearance and the
second to supporting economic reforms. In effect, ERL and FESAC belonged
together as two tranches of one operation.
(b)   When dealing with a new member state, the Bank needs to be very careful
about the signals it gives. The lesson described above underscores the need
for extra care in dealing with a new Bank member. Bank staff have to be very
careful about the signals given and, just as importantly, about how those
signals are received. In the long run, the quality of country relations depends
on the clarity of how Bank policies are explained by Bank staff and understood
by the Borrower.
(c)   When a country is committed to reforms, it will implement them with or
without conditionality. ERL has demonstrated that when a country is
committed to reforms, reforms are implemented despite weakness in the letter
of the conditionality. To the credit of the Macedonian authorities, reform
measures were pursued over and above the "initial measures" required to be
taken as loan conditions. For example, there was a condition to finalize terms
of reference for the international audits of banks, but the Macedonian
authorities actually got the intemational audits done during the course of ERL
implementation.
(d)   Difficult and painful reforms can be implemented only with strong
political support. During the preparation of FESAC, the Bank tried to pursue
implementation of the reform program as the basis for the first tranche of
FESAC. Since there was already agreement in principle on these reforms
under ERL, their implementation was the logical basis for FESAC
conditionality. The Macedonian authorities, however, could not deliver
enough implementation progress to allow the Bank to proceed with FESAC.
Preparation of FESAC had to be interrupted accordingly. In retrospect, this
inability to take action was due more to the political constraints in an election
year rather than to a lack of commitment to reform. After elections, when the
Government's mandate was renewed by the electorate, implementation of the
reform program was resumed at full speed and FESAC was quickly put in
place.
(e)   Where institutions are weak, adjustment operations have to be
accompanied by technical assistance to ensure that the country has the
required expertise to implement agreed reforms. Although the interruption
in the implementation of reforms in late 1994 can be explained, to a large
extent, by the political constraints of an election year, to some extent it was
due to institutional weakness, as succeeding reform measures in the enterprise,
banking and social sectors became more technical and required more expertise.
With the help of PHRD funds from the Japanese Government, the Bank was
able to provide focussed and timely technical assistance to help the
Macedonian authorities in program design and implementation. Such
assistance, which was provided in parallel with the preparation of FESAC, was
partly responsible for the acceleration in reform implementation, leading to the
early approval of FESAC.



- 12 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 6:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 7:   Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                    EEl 0l                                    E0
Sector Policies                                 El ]                        E l
Financial Objectives              ERl                        E              El
Institutional Development         E]                         El             El
Physical Objectives               E]            El           El 
Poverty Reduction                                            El             cm]
Gender Issues                      El           E            El
Other Social Objectives             l            l           El             I
Environmental Objectives          O             E            El
Public Sector Management          E                          El             El
Private Sector Development        U                          El             El
Other (specify)                   a             El           E              E
B. Project Sustainability          Likely               Unlikely            Uncertain
ERx1:E                                    El
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                    E                     IX                  El
Preparation Assistance             O                                        El
Appraisal                          El 
Supervision                        ]                    o                   E
D. Borrower Performance       Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                       cXm                   E                   E
Implementation                                          El                  El
Covenant Compliance                                     El                  El
Operation (if applicable)         E                     E                   E
E. Assessment of Outcome      Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
[E           E            El              El



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose             Year Approved               Status
Preceding Operations
1.
2.                   NOT APPLICABLE
3.
Following Operations
1. FESAC            reform of banking,              1995            under implementation
enterprise and social
sectors
2. SRTAP            technical assistance for        1995            under implementation
labor redeployment
and pension reform
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                          Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                     11/93
Appraisal                                                                      12/93
Negotiations                                                                  01/94
Letter of Development Policy                                                01/04/94
Board Presentation                                 02/08/94                 02/08/94
Signing                                            02/14/94                 02/14/94
Effectiveness                                      02/16/94                 02/14/94
First Tranche Release (if applicable)              02/16/94                 02/14/94
Midterm Review (if applicable)                  not applicable         not applicable
Second (and third) Tranche Release (if          not applicable         not applicable
applicable)
Loan Closing                                       03/31/95                 03/31/95



- 15 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thousand)
Appraisal                         Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year             Estimate           Actual       Percentage of
(US$ millions)                Estimate
1994                    40.0           40.11/            100
1995                    80.0           80.1              100
Date of Final Disbursement: July 25, 1994
I/ Equivalent to SDR 29 million using historical exchange rates.
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original         Revised
Agreement  Section    Type          Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment Description of Covenant Comments
Date         Date
CREDIT       3.01, HI       9         C                                 Provides for progress
and related reports.
3.03, 111     1         C       06/30/95                  Provides for maintenance
of, Bank staff's access
to, and end-of-year
audits of, expenditures
financed out of loan.
LOAN          3.01, III     9         C                                 Provides for progress
review and related
reports.
3.03, HI     1         C       03/30/95                  Provides for maintenance
of, Bank staff's access
to, and end-of-year
audits of, expenditures
financed out of loan.
Covenant type:                                                                          Preent Status
I =  Accounts/audits                  8 =  Indigenous people                            C = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue    9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting            CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not                    CP = complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1- 9                  NC = not complied with
funds                          11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 =  Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resource
5 =  Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency    12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 =  Environmental covenants                policy/regulatory/institutional
7 =  Involuntary resettlement               action
13=  Other



- 16 -
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Revised                       Actual
Stage of Project Cycle       Weeks       US$         Weeks         US$               Weeks        US$
Preparation to Appraisal        45.0    126.7          44.7             99.0           55.9          182.4
Appraisal                       36.0    101.7          13.0             31.3            6.7          23.4
Negotiations through Board       2.0       4.2          3.0              5.7           12.5          40.5
Approval
Supervision                    105.0    308.4          91.7            236.6           89.8         291.9
Completion                       3.0      11.0          3.0             11.0
Total                        191.0    552.0         155.4            383.6          164.9         538.2
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                            Rating 2          Types of
Stage of Project Cycle     Month/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization    I       .                Problems 3
Implementation Development Polm
Status     Objectives
Through Appraisal            12/93        12      10          E,F
Appraisal through Board       N.A.
Approval
Supervision                   7/94        3       14          E,F            1               1       F,T,M
Completion                   10/95         1      14           F             I               1       F,T,M
Total                                  16       38
1 - Specialization                         2 - Performance Rating             3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                        1 = Minor problems                  F =  Financial
E = Economist                              2 = Moderate Problems               T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                   3 = Major Problems                  M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
m:\hannah\erl.icr



REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
GOVERNMENT
SKOPJE
31 May, 1996
Mr. Franco Batzella
Acting Director
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
Dear Mr. Batzella,
RE:  Economic Recovery Loan and Credit
Implementation Completion Report
I would like to present a few comments on the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Economic Recovery Loan and Credit (ERL).
The ERL in an amount of US$40 million equivalent and SDR 29 millihn (US$40
million equivalent), was very significant for the Republic of Macedonia since it was the first credit
facility extended by the World Bank, which in turn was among the first intemational financial
institutions to enable the Republic of Macedonia access to foreign lending at a time when the
economic as well as political conditions in the external environment for the Republic were
extremely difficult. Thus, we are very pleased that the findings and conclusions of the mission that
prepared the ICR highlight the fact that implementation of the ERL was highly satisfactory, with
project objectives successfully achieved as well as that the performance of the Authorities of the
Republic of Macedonia was considered highly satisfactory, despite the hostile political and
economic environment faced by the country at that time.
The ERL had two important objectives: to help finance the costs associated with the
restructuring of the economy and to facilitate the clearance of the country's arrears with the Bank in
an amount oC.US$106.6 million.
The program of stabilisation and structural reforms supported by the ERL and the
IMF's Structural Transformation Facility (STF), focused on initial measures in: 1. fiscal
restructuring and retrenchment; 2. banking sector reform; 3. privatisation, enterprise restructuring
and private sector development; and 4. liberalisationi of the labour market and adjustment of the
social safety net. The initial creation of the legal and institutional framework for the structural
reforms further implemented under the FESAC, was a very significant step that the Republic of
Macedonia undertook on its way of transforming its economy into market based one.
'The clearance of the arrears with the World Bank was an immediate concern for the
Government from financial and political aspect: it represented a main condition for obtaining access



to new Bank assistance; together with the [MF membership, it also meant "enhanced standing in the
international cornmunity as well as access to external financing from institutions, which in the
absence of support from other official and cornmercial sources, were the only significant source".
The Consultative Group also provided bilateral grants and bridge loans to help clear the arrears with
the Bank. I would like, once again, to extend our gratitude to all countries which have participated
in this operation and especially The Netherlands authorities for their coordinative role and the most
substantial contribution.
However, the objective of implementing the stabilisation and structural reforms was equally
important and seriously understood as a longer-term process, although the actions under the ERL
could be considered as only initial. As stated in the Letter of Development Policy ('.,DP), and
highlighted in the ICR, " the mnacroeconomic program was implemented satisfactory and the initial
measures for structural reforns were not only taken, but pursued further than the agreements
required". Thus, from a view point of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the statement
that the "ERL is a case of weak conditions, but strong results" may be taken as a credit, but at the
same time it is only acceptable as an evaluation of the Bank for its financial product, while there
was a strong corniitment and deternination of the Governmenit of the RM to undertake the reforms
from their start, with or without the conditionality of the ERL.
With the FESAC following immediately after the ERL, the Republic of Macedonia received
the needed technical assistance and support to implement and deepen the reforms, initiated with the
ERL. These reforms are now in an advanced stage of implementation.
However, the ERL was significant from an another crucial aspect - it opened a\e way of
fruitful and excellent cooperation with the Bank. We hope that it will be maintained in the future as
well.
Ljube Trpeski
Vice President of the Government
-                      pf'~M3



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27711
FED. REP. OF  YUGOSLAVIA                                      -                                       FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
.        _  >                                                               MACEDONIA
'  _ -;                                                    - GO5seO k             .,-.  - .,.--            '    _.PRIVATE  SECTOR
\K_o- .t' 'k              /                          Kv           eshvo K> sie diI                                       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-  -    V,oC~~~~Bl.um.o                                                                                                                                 Major Cities
* r   S ,  i._Selected cities
Rodu                                                                                                                               * ~~~~ENational Capital
Primary roads
7                                                                                                                            --    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary roads
-+------Q--       ,Electrified railroads
L.                       I -i--i  ~~~~~~~Otker railroads
A _Peshtoo;.,-  VolkoVijo                                                                                                                                                             4-Y  p    Airports
Rdi                                       K                                    Spat elevations in meters
Rivers
0                                                                              - - - - -    International boundaries
C                   1 KILO.ETER
-                                                             F                                                                           1.~~~~~~~~r,-a  
T0  (530.,E
-4,  Swgo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Io,cEdeso1RSIOT                                                                                                                                                 0A
,r-.                                                                        HEFZEGOVFNIA  N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 AU TIAE
Bit.1   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                                                           A               J-    O 
Mono                   >Lo~~e              -                                                       Ko,onro                 -.       YUGOSLAVIA    BJ GRCHR N8AP
ALBANIA  Korne  I       {                                                                                                                      AJ5ANIAJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<SOENAROAI
L.6                                                                                                                    7 CROATIA~~~~~~~~~~~~0  T
/                                                                                m~~~~~~~~~am~E-
FI.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY19









'1 'I
*^D   C.)
Cr -,
CY
C'T2'



