Report No. PIC682
Project Name                   Macedonia-Economic Recovery Loan/Credit
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Non-sectoral
Project ID                     MKPA8408
Principal Entity               Ministry of Finance
Loan Amount                    US$40 million
Credit Amount                  SDR 29 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Board Date                     February 8, 1994
Date PID Prepared              January 31, 1994
Background:
1.   FYR Macedonia is currently in a very difficult situation.    Entering
its third year of independence, the country has now gained widespread
political recognition and is addressing the underlying economic problems
inherited from the policies and institutions of the former Yugoslav
federation. The challenges it faces are enormous, especially as its
economic performance is severely constrained by the unfavorable external
environment. Despite the adverse situation, the Government is
implementing an adjustment/ stabilization program and has already taken
several far-reaching measures in the areas of privatization, trade
liberalization, and public enterprise reforms, as well as reforms in the
banking and tax systems.   But much remains to be done.    The economic
program for 1994, which has been adopted by Parliament, goes beyond
short-term emergency measures and tackles the structural impediments to
growth. In support of its adjustment/stabilization, FYR Macedonia has
obtained support from the IMF in the form of a drawing on the Systemic
Transformation Facility and will receive support from the World Bank
through this Bank/IDA Economic Recovery Loan/Credit. Both are subject
to confirmation of financing arrangements. Given the size of the
projected financing gap for 1994 and the Government's commitment to
repay arrears to the international financial institutions in the course
of 1994, substantial up-front financial and development assistance from
the international community is required. A support group led by the
Government of the Netherlands has been helping FYR Macedonia mobilize
this assistance.
Project Objectives:
2.   The basic objective of the proposed loan/credit is to support the
Government's program of stabilization and structural reforms by
financing costs associated with the restructuring of FYR Macedonia's
economy following the break-up of the Yugoslav Federation. The
loan/credit would directly facilitate the financial workout supported by
the international community. The proposed loan/credit will support
initial measures to launch the reforms in four key areas: (a) fiscal
restructuring and retrenchment; (b) banking sector reform; (c)
privatization, enterprise restructuring and private sector development;
and (d) freeing the labor market and adjusting the social safety net.



These reforms are accompanied by a tight fiscal, monetary and income
policy supported by the IMF through a drawing on the Systemic
Transformation Facility.
Project Description:
3.   The Economic Recovery Loan/Credit would provide US$80 million
equivalent in one tranche and would conform to the usual procurement
procedures for such operations.
Environmental Aspects:
4.   Environmental Assessment "U".   This operation does not require an
environmental assessment. It is unlikely to have any adverse economic
impact.
Institutional Capacity:
5.   FYR Macedonia's capacity to implement and monitor a comprehensive
stabilization and structural adjustment program is being bolstered by
informal technical assistance provided by the IMF and the Bank. The
Bank has provided the necessary training in procurement to the
loan/credit administration team.    The Bank and the IMF will continue to
provide technical assistance in close cooperation with other
institutions including US AID, EC PHARE and EBRD.
Benefits and Risks:
6.   This loan/credit would support key structural reforms to enable FYR
Macedonia achieve sustainable stabilization and restore growth. Without
these reforms, there is a high probability that output will continue to
decline or stagnate in the medium-term. The loan/credit will facilitate
FYR Macedonia's normalization with external creditors and thus result in
increased access to external finance, a necessary condition to avoid a
slide into hyperinflation and an aggravation of the recession. The
policies supported by this loan/credit are expected to have a
sufficiently positive impact on growth to justify the admittedly high
risks associated with the proposed aggressive reform effort.
7.   These risks include the following.   Lack of progress in the
resolution of the regional tensions, an element outside the control of
the authorities, would prevent resumption of growth, leave FYR Macedonia
increasingly dependent on external aid flows, and could even lead to
renewed suspension of payments to preferred creditors. Domestically,
the consensus for reform may weaken as enterprise restructuring and
privatization lead to increases in unemployment.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
- 2-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



