Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
OCAN     -7 -7   D 3  -A/K
Report No. P-6204-MK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40 MILLION
AND ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 29 MILLION
TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Januay 18, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
This document has a restricted distribution and m  Report No: P-  6204 MK
their official duties. Its contents may not other%  Type: MOP



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
Dec          Dec
1992         1993
US$1.00=                   1235          44.45
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA          -             Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CCFF         -             Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
CIF          -             Cost, Insurance and Freight
CMEA         -             Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CPA          -             Country Procurement Assessment
EBRD         -             European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU           -             European Union
EIB          -             European Investment Bank
ERL/C        -             Economic Recovery Loan/Credit
FYR Macedonia -            Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
GATT         -             General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GSP          -             Gross Social Product
IBRD         -             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          -             International Competitive Bidding
IFI          -             International Financial Institution
IMF          -             International Monetary Fund
MKD          -             Macedonian Denar
MLT          -             Medium and Long Term
NBM          -             National Bank of Macedonia
NBY          -             National Bank of Yugoslavia
OECD         -             Organization for economic Co-operation and Development
SAL          -             Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR          -             Special Drawing Rights
SFRY         -             Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SOE          -             Socially Owned Enterprise
SoE          -             Statement of Expenditure
SOK          -             Social Accounting Office
STF          -             Systemic Transformation Facility
VAT          -             Value Added Tax
FYR MACEDONIA-FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCiL USE ONLY
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Bornower:       Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYR Macedonia).
Amount:         Bank loan US$40 million equivalent.
IDA credit SDR 29 million (US$40 million equivalent).
Terms:          Bank loan for 20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. IDA credit for 35 years including a 10-year grace period.
Desciption:     The proposed loan/credit supports the Government's program of stabilization and
structural reforms by financing costs associated with the restructuring of FYR
Macedonia's economy following the break-up of the Yugoslav Federation. The
loan/credit would directly facilitate the financial workout supported by the international
community which is required for PYR Macedonia to clear its arrears with the Bank. The
program backed by the loan/credit will also receive support from the IMP through a
drawing on the Systemic Transformation Facility. The proposed loan/credit will support
initial measures to launch the reforms in four key areas: (a) fiscal restructuring and
retrenchment; (b) banldng sector reform; (c) privadzation, enterprise restructuring and
private sector development; and (d) freeing the labor market and adjusting the social
safety net.
Benefits
and Risks:      This loan/credit would support key structural reforms to enable FYR Macedonia to
achieve sustainable stabilization and restoration of growth. Without these reforms, there
is a higb probability that output will continue to decline or stagnate in the medium-term.
The policies supported by this loan/credit are expected to have a sufficiently positive
impact on growth to justify taking the risks associated with a more aggressive reform
effort. The immediate benefits of the loan/credit will be in the form of facilitating
FYR Macedonia's normalization with extal creditors and therefore in increased access
to external finance, a necessary condition to avoid a slide into hyperinflation and an
aggravation of the recession.
The risks are, however, very high. Lack of progress in the resolution of the regional
tensions, an element outside the control of the authorities, would prevent resumption of
growth, leave FYR Macedonia increasingly dependent on external aid flows, and perhaps
even lead to renewed suspension of paymets to preferred creditors. Domestically, the
consensus for reform may weaken as enterprise restructuring and privatization lead to
increases in unemployment. Increases in the World Bank exposure after the initial
decline that will result from the resolution of the arrears will therefore need to be
carefully monitored.
Disbursoemets:   The loan/credit would be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness against general
imports, subject to the customary exclusions. All funds are expected to be disbursed by
March 31, 1995.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FORM(ER YUGOSLIAV REPUBlIC OF MACEDONIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LWAN/CREDIT
Table of Contents
I. INTRODUCTION            ................................................  1
H. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE                    .......................................  3
A. Background: The LegacyofYugoslavia  ......      ................ .            3
B. Recent Economic Developments ....... ........... .                            4
m. THE COVERNMENT'S DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND BANK ASSISTANCE ..... 7
A. The GoverDment's Economic Development Program  .....................  7
B. Elements of the Bank's Assistance Strategy ..........................  10
TV. ECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND EXTERNAL PINANCING  .............                 ......  14
A. A Medium-Tenn Scenario .....................................  14
B. External Financing and Creditworthiness ........... ..      ...............  15
V. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM UNDER THI ECONOMIC RECOVERY
LOAN/CREDIT ..............................................  18
A. Macroeconomic Policies for Stabilization and in Support of Structural Reforms  ...  20
B. Policies to Address the Bankdng Sector Crisis .........................  23
C. Policies to Address the Enterprise Sector Crisis .......................  28
D. Freeing the Labor Market and Adjusting the Social Safety Net .... ..........  32
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT ....................................  38
A. Rationale for and Objectives of the Loan ........... ..     ...............  38
B. ProjectDescription  .........................................  38
VII. RECO)MENDA71ON  ...........                 ...............................  41
ANNEXES
ANNEX A. LEITER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ..........................  42
ANNEX B. ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT POLICY MATRIX ....                     ........  64
ANNEX C. KEYECONOMIC INDICATORS ...............................  67
ANNEX D. TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS .....................  71
ANNEX E. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN FYR MACEDONIA  ....                  ....  73



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCnON AND DEVELOPM
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40 MILLION
AND ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 29 MILLON
1.    I submit the following repont and recommendation on a proposed Economic Recovery Loan/Credit
(ERL/C) to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYR Macedonia) in support of a program of
strucural reforms to restore growth. The proposed loan/credit in an amount of US$80 million equivalent
(SDR 29 million from IDA and US$40 million from the Bank) would be made to FYR Macedonia
through the Ministry of Finance. The IDA credit would be for 35 years including a 10-year grace period,
and the Bank loan would be for 20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
2.    PYR Macedonia was declared a successor state to the former Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (SFRY) by the IMF on April 21, 1993 (effective December 14, 1992). It became a member
of the Bank, IDA and IPC on December 30, 1993 (effective February 25, 1993) upon fulfillment of the
requirements of succession approved by the Executive Directors, including an agreement with the Bank
on a plan to clear FYR Macedonia's arrears to the Bank. An abbreviated Country Assistance Strategy
is included below.
I. INTRODUCTION
3.    FYR Macedoia prepares to enter its third year of political independence while undergoing a
struggle for full political and economic recognition by the international commuity. The challenges on
the economic front are enormous. The country needs to address the problems inherited from the policies
a  institutions of the former Yugoslav federation. Its economic performance is severely constrained by
the unfavorable external enviroment. After losing markets in the Gulf (1990), the CMEA (1990-91) and
the former Yugoslavia (1991-92), it was subject to another round of adverse external shocks, related to
the UN sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro (its main trading partners) and difficulties in making
shipments through Greece. As a result of these adverse developments, real GSP declined in 1992 to two-
thirds of its 1989 level and is expected to decline by an additional 15 percent in 1993.
4.    Despite these adverse external developments, FYR Macedonia has so far succeeded in remaining
an island of peace in a very turbulent part of the world. In this tightly constrained environment, the
Goverment initiated a set of stabilization and structural reforms. In April 1992, a currency reform was
carried out, immditely followed by a stabilization program which attempted to restrict wage growth,
tighten monetary policy, and prevent monetization of the fiscal deficit. Results to date, however, have
been mixed. On the one hand, the stabilization program allowed FYR Macedonia to reduce inflation
substatially below pre-reform levels, and to avoid the violent hyperinaion of the Yugoslav Dinar area.
On the other hand, inflation has remained high and variable: after a sharp drop in the first three months
of the program, it accelerated again, reaching more than 30 percent in February 1993, due to increases



2
in controlled prices of oil and electricity. Inflation seems to have declined since then, but has rarely
fallen below five percent per month, and has continued to show wide fluctuations from month to month.
5.    Since the country achieved political recognition by becoming a member of the United Nations in
April 1993, the Government has given the highest priority to economic reforms: it fully recognizes that
FYR Macedonia cannot afford to wait for a resolution of the regional tensions before confronting its
economic problems. Far-reaching measures have already been taken in the last few months, including
(i) the approval of the Privatization Law by Parliament in June 1993; (ii) the beginning of privatization
of socially-owned apartments; (iii) a further liberalization of the trade regime through a reduction of
quotas and reduction of tariff rates, (iv) the approval of the Banking Law; (v) the strengthening of central
bank independence through a progressive abolition of selective credits; (vi) the initiation of the legislative
process on public enterprise reform; and (vii) preparatory work on a new tax system.
6.    The Government has now shown a clear intention to strengthen the adjustment/stabilization
program, and is seeking IMP balance-of-payment assistance and support from international financial
institutions (11Is) and bilateral donors. Given the size of the projected financing gap for 1994 and the
Government's commitment to repay arrears to IFIs, substantial up-front financial and development
aistance of the international community is required for full involvement of the Bretton Woods
institutions. A support group led by the Government of the Netherlands has been established for the
purpose of helping FYR Macedonia mobilize this assistance.
7.    The Bank declared on December 30, 1993 that the "former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia"t
has fulfilled the equiremnts provided for in the resolutions of the Executive Directors of the Bank and
IDA and the Board of Directors of IFC, adopted on February 25, 1993, for succession to membership
of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Bank, IDA and IFC respectively by its five
suceessor republics. FYR Macedonia therefore became a member of the Bank, IDA and IPC as of
Februay 25, 1993. FYR Macedonia provided evidence that it has formally accepted the A-ticles of
Agreement and the terms and conditions of succession, and has made payments in its currency. In
addition, concerning the loans made by the Bank and assumed by each successor republic, FYR
Aacedonia: (i) has assumed repayment obligations under the loans to SFRY entities for which FYR
Macedonia assumes responsibilities; and (ii) has agreed with the Bank on a plan to eliminate arrears.
8.    Presentation of a viable financing plan for the clearance of arrears to the Bank was the main
obstacle for the membership. During the second half of 1993, and following a series of meetings of the
support group chaired by the Netherlands Government as well as bilateral discussions, a plan for arrears
clearance was firmed-up (pam 32). Bank policy, which is followed in this operation, requires the
clearmce of arrears to the Bank to take place prior to signing and effectiveness of new loans. Arrears
to the Bank are projected to stand at US$106.6 million at end-January 1994; FYR Macedonia has been
servicing its current obligations since October 1, 1993. Arrears to IFC were about US$9.1 million at
end-December 1993, and the Goverment has assented in principle to clear agreed arrears to IFC prior
to effectiveness of the next Bank adjustment operaton. The Government has provided the resources
needed to clear arrears to all HUIs in the 1994 Budget.
The designation 'former Yugodav Republic of Macedonia" will be used provisionally by the Bank unt
a name is agreed upon with the Bank.



3
II. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Background: The Legac of Yugoslavia
9.    FYR Macedonia's current economic performance is severely constrained by its unfavorable
external environment since independence. Its underlying problems, however, originate from the policies
and institutions inherited from SPRY. Macedonia was SPRY's poorest republic: its per capita income
remained at around 65 percent of the Yugoslav average (and one-fifth of that of Slovenia), despite federal
efforts to promote a fast build-up of infrastructure and industry in the region. Indeed, the postwar build-
up of infrastructure and industrial capacity was financed by net transfers from the Federation and by
external credits guaranteed by the federal Government or the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY). These
transfers enabled FYR Macedonia to run sizeable current account deficits vis-A-vis the rest of the world
and the former Yugoslav republics. FYR Macedonia was also more dependent than other republics on
trade with the other former Yugoslav republics, the former Soviet Union, and other CMEA countries.2
10.   Togetber with other former Yugoslav republics, FYR Macedonia's economic performance
deteriorated dramatically during the 1980s, as indicated by very high inflation and stagnation of economic
activity. The causes of such poor performance are rooted in the Yugoslav system of enterprise self-
management, which attributed ownership to society at large, but entrusted workers with the responsibility
of utilizing enterprise assets. In the absence of the long-run concerns of a real owner, social ownership
resulted in excessive wage pressures and careless evaluation of investment projects. Many enterprises
started to generate losses during the 1970s. These and other serious deficiencies of the system, including
the increasing tensions between self-management of enterprises and more centralized political control over
major decisions, were masked for several years by sizeable volumes of investment financed by large
foreign borrowing, which dried up in the early 1980s.
11.   The stabilization programs of the 1980s were successful in generating increasing current account
surpluses for Yugoslavia as a whole, but did not reduce inflation or restore growth due to their failure
to solve the persistent and widespread imbalances at the microeconomic level. Enterprises continued to
tun for support to the banks they owned and controlled, and these in turn were ultimately supported by
subsidized rediscounts from NBY. The resulting large quasi-fiscal deficits led to the loss of monetary
control and sharply increasing inflation. During the same period, growth came to a halt. The last
atempt to stabilize and restnucture Yugoslavia's economy, undertaken in 1990, similarly failed due to
the lack of fiscal and political support. When the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and Republic
of Montenegro, via their central banks, issued a large amount of money to finance enterprise losses and
resulting deficits without permission from NBY, the program collapsed and the macroeconomic
performance of all republics deteriorated markedly. The refusal of the republics to continue to finance
the federal Government led to a large federal deficit, open recourse to monetary fmancing and a strong
acceleration of inflation. Against this background, Slovenia and Croatia proclaimed their independence
in June 1991. In September 1991, a referendum was called in FYR Macedonia, and more than 90
percent of the voters approved the creation of an independent state. Independence was immeiately
declared, but an iependent conduct of economic policies did not begin until April 1992, when the last
troops from Yugoslavia departed from the young republic.
2   In the late 19SOs arund 70 percet of total sales by Maedonian enerpris went to the domestic maret,
22 percent went to other former Yugoslav markets (out of which 52 percent to Serbia), and 8 pecn to
went to foreign mars (out of which more than 25 percet to the CMEA).



4
B. Recent Economic Developments
Macroeconomic Consequences of Independence
12.   FYR Macedonia thus inherited a very difficult set of initial macroeconomic conditions, which
provide a tight environment for economic policy making. The broad economic problem confronting the
country can be summarized as follows. FYR Macedonia has to make, under most unfavorable external
conditions, the transition from a system that allowed it to be a net recipient of large external savings (to
the tune of 20 percent of GSP until 1991) to one in which the possibility to finance a current account
deficit is very limited. Under such circumstances, real incomes are bound to decline, even substantially.
The severity of the adjustment in real incomes can be mitigated by two factors: the speed and flexibility
with which the economy can re-orient its resources towards the most profitable activities under the new
conditions, and the availability of new support from the international community. Over the last two
years, support from the international community has been limited, and a re-orientation of economic
activities has not been possible: as a consequence, recession and economic instability have condtimed.
Virtually the only external financing available to the country has been through running into arrears on
repayment obligations; its resources balance has gone into forced equilibrium. No country has been able
to absorb a shock of this magnitude without painful economic consequences: international support is
essential for domestic adjustment efforts to be successful.
13.   Internally, however, the structural problems inherited from the old system have remained. The
sharp drop in output has not translated into a commensurate increase in unemployment because of formal
restrictions to lay-offs and the bias against lay-offs in the self-management system.3 This lack of
adjustment, as a result, aggravated the problem of labor redundancy in the enterprises and made them
increasingly unable to meet their domestic and foreign finncial obligations. At the start of stabilization
in early 1992, enterprise losses were large and the largest banks experienced severe portfolio problems.
A quasi-fiscal problem was in the making. On the fiscal side, the loss of external support was manifested
in a decline of revenues from 48 percent of GSP in 1990, to 37 percent in 1991, and 28 percent in 1992.
Only the accumulaon of substial domestic and external arrears has prevented monetization of the
resulting deficits. As an added complication, in early 1992 foreign reserves were extremely small (US$18
million), as Yugoslavia's foreign reserves were mostly held by NBY in Belgrade. FYR Macedonia's
exenal debt stood at some US$846 million, equivalent to 43 percent of GSP.4 A substantial portion
of the debt was falling due, and the inability of enterprises and banks to meet their obligations resulted
in an increasing stock of external arrears. Finally, a large portion of the assets corresponding to the
foreign exchange deposits (amounig to over US$1 billion) vanished overnight with the separation from
Belgrade. The banks thus became unable to service these deposits and the Government was forced to
freeze them and relieve the banks from the obligation to pay interest (interest was accrued but not paid).
3 The rate of unemployment was very high at the start of the program-25 percent in April 1992. However,
the unemployed consisted primarily of the young, new entrants in the labor force, as opposed to laid-off
workers.
4  The stock of debt of the former Yugoslav Federion has not yet been apportioned among the successor
states, with the excepdon of the World Bank and IMP obligatons. The figure of US$846 million
repse  the debt as repotd by the fYR Macedonia authorities.



5
14.   In addition to these tight initial conditions, FYR Macedonia has been subject to another round
of adverse external shocks, related to the UN sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro (its main trading
partners) and difficulties in mWing shipments through Greece. The intensification of economic sanctions
against Serbia and Montenegro (resolution 820 of April 20, 1993) has resulted in the near complete
interruption of direct trade through Serbia, and made it virtually impossible to use FYR Macedonia's
traditional routes to Western markets. Tourism and transportation have also declined considerably, as
have direct remittances from emigrants, following the freezing of tne foreign exchange deposits. As a
result of these adverse developments, real GSP is expected to decline by some 17 percent in 1993, to
about 50 peirent of its 1989 level.
Economic Stabgizaon - Lessons from 1992-1993
15.   The slide into hyperinflation after the political dissolution of the Yugoslav federation meant that
the achievement of monetary independence would be a necessary precondition for stabilization. Monetary
independence was effectively achieved on April 26, 1992, when the new national currency-the
Macedonian Denar-was introduced. The currency reform was immediately followed by a stabilization
program aimed at halting the hyperinflationary process under way-monthly inflation was increasing
almost continuously and reached 80 percent in April 1992. The program was heterodox in its design,
as it also comprised initial controls on the exchange rate, wages and public sector prices. The exchange
rate was devalued to the level prevailing in the black market and fixed initially at this level, even though
the absence of foreign reserves severely limited the credibility of an exchange rate anchor. Nominal
wages were made subject to strict controls; public sector prices were corrected and also frozen as the start
of the program. The nominal anchors, however, were quickly lost. Wage restraint lasted only a short
time; the persistence of inflation after the start of stabilization led to a substantial appreciation of the
official real exchange rate, and a widening black market premium. Finally, in May 1993 NBM decided
to move to a floating exchange rate regime.
16.   Monetary policy initially followed the rules adopted in other exchange rate-based stabilization
programs: NBM was allowed to monetize all foreign exchange imflows, whereas its domestic credits
(essentially rediscounts to banks) were meant to be subject to strict controls. In addition, there was an
effort to introduce central bank independence through the enactment of a Central Bank Law specifying
restrictions on NBM credits to the Government and making NBM accountable to Parliament. NBM also
sharply increased the interest rates on rediscounts at the start of the program.
17.   Fiscal policy was not given a clear mandate, as the absence of an open fiscal deficit seems to have
created difficulties for the conception of a fiscal program. For this reason, fiscal policy objectives were
initally limited to avoiding cash deficits, eschewing a modificaton of expenditure programs and avoiding
the takeover of foreign exchange deposits and foreign liabilities. This design of fiscal policy effectively
implied the absence of direct fiscal support to bank and enterprise restructuring. In any case, the April
1992 program apparendy did not assume that enterprise and bank restructuring would be a necessary
condition for a successful stabilization.



6
Table 1: FYR Macedonia - Main Economic Indicators
1991 7    1992       1993      1994
1  estWmim  projected
(percentage change):
Gross Domestic Product       -12.1     -13.4     -15.0        -8.0
Inflation (Dec. to Dec.)    229.7    1925.2       233.4      70.0
Inflatioa (average)         114.9    1690.7       350.1      123.0
(percent of GSP):
Gross Investment             18.2       17.6      15.2        16.0
National Savings             -3.5       18.0      12.0        13.0
Government Investmen.         0.5        0.3       0.7        0.7
Government Savings           -3.1       -5.8     -10.8        -6.9
Non-govermnent Investment    17.7       17.3      14.5        15.3
Non-govement Savings          -0.4      23.8      22.8        19.9
Govemment Revenues           36.8       28.1      34.3       41.4
Government Expenditures      40.4       35.1      44.3       46.4
Govemment Balance:
Accrual                      -3.6      -7.0      .10.0       -4.9
Cash                          0.0       0.0        0.0       -2.0
(US$ million):
Merhni  Exports 1/          648.0      889.0     910.7      918.0
Merchandise Imports 1/     1064.0      963.0     937.7      971.0
Cunrent Account Balance     -262.0     -11.0     -52.0      -43.0
(ercent of GSP)            -11.3      -0.5       -3.1       -2.8
Source: FYR Macedonia Authorities; World Bank estmates
1/ Trade data are not striedy comparable across years, due to the
reclassificadon-at different times-of former Yugoslav republics as foreign
(and no longer domestic) trade partners.
18.   The program achieved some success in increasing foreign reserves - from US$28 million in April
1992 to US$135 million in June 1993, although this is equivalent to only one month of imports. The
reserve build-up was made possible only by accumulating substantial arrears against all international
creditors: aears rose continuously to US$390 million at the end of December 1993, or the equivalent
of almost one half of FYR Macedonia's external debt.
19.   The difficulty in sustaining the initial success in reducing inflation was due to problem  in
program conception and implementtion that need to be addressed in the next stage of reforms. Rrst,
as menoned, the Govermment was unable to sustain the control of wages for more than two months.
Real wages dropped significantly at the start of the program but rose again in mid-1992, due to the
absence of restictive legislation and the failure of trade unions and the chamber of commerce (the
representative of workers and enterprise managers) to reach a collective agreement. Real wages have



7
increased cotnously since the second quarter in 1992 (Figure 1) and have almost recovered their level
prior to the start of the reforms.5
20.   Second, the absence of wage                         Fiure 1
restraint and the shift to a floating exchange
rate put the burden of providing a nominal       R Macedonia - Real wages
anchor onto monetary policy. But due to  110
the continuing quasi-fiscal losses in the
banks and enterprise sectors, NBM  was   100      't'.'..............*--...
unable to maintain the restrictive monetary
policy envisaged at the start of the program.  90 .... ........ .. ... . .- .. ...
The imposition of strict controls on bank                   X  e/  ...
rediscounts lasted for only two months, as
the critical liquidity situation of enterprises  70 l  l
and banks had already prompted NBM to
relax the conduct of monetary policy in late  6 0                            .......
June, 1992. In addition, NBM engaged in
purchass of foreign exchange.   The       50  '     9   9 't   '    t92' 9
combination of these two factors provided    1          1        19        1993
the financing for the nominal demand for
denars. In addition, after being roughly
constant in real tems for the previous nine months, in the second half of 1993 the stock of base money
rose by almost 50 percent in real terms, indicating a further loss of control and providing a dangerous
overhang for the future ccnduct of macro policy.
21. Ffnaly, although the Government's strategy of delaying payments through cash management of
the fiscal accounts has prevented the emergence of an open fiscal deficit, this has been accomplished at
the cost of accumulaing substantal internal and external arrears. As discussed in the net section,
confronting the quasi-fiscal deficits in the enterprise and bank sectors would involve substantl fiscal
costs; but the room for manoeuver, at this point, is extremely limited.
ilI. THE GOVERNMENS DEVELOPMET PROGRAM AND BANK ASSISTANCE
A. The Governumet's Economic Development Program
22. The Govemment of FYR Macedonia is committed to economic reform, and is aware that it cannot
afford to wait for a resolution of the regional tensions to begin to confront its economic problems. The
political consensus is that economic revitalization should be a priority, and that the counry must capitalize
on the experience gained in the past year and implement a progrm of action that goes beyond short-term
emergency measures and tackles the structural impediments to growth. The Government has already
taken major steps in the form of new legislation in support of market reforms. However, in the face of
a declining economy, the conimning sanctions, and increasing strains on social programs, the
susainability of economic reform will depend on the Government's ability to maintn the consen    on
S  Monly average wages at end-1993 amount to approximaely US$150.



8
reform. The highest priority is to takc the initial steps on stabilization and economic restructuring, within
the context of the budget for 1994.
StabUiwdon as a First Pdory
23.   Successful stabilization depends on the removal of the fundamental sources of money creation,
which in FYR Macedonia lie in the quasi-fiscal losses generated by the enterprises and banks. In
addition, an effective incomes policy is essential. The lack of enforcement of a nominal anchor in wage
behavior has been one of the main reasons for the continued high and variable level of inflation. Wage
awards unrelated to gains in productivity generate strong pressures on the enterprises and banks, and thus
undernine economic stability. Until a sufficiently large share of the economy is privatized, an active
incomes policy remains a necessary condition for stabilization.
24.   The Government has negotiated a stabilization program with the IMP to be supported by a
purchase of SDR 24.8 million under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF). FYR Macedonia
intends to reach agreement with the IMF on a program that could be supported by a Stand-by
arrangement before the second half of 1994. Such a program could also be supported by a second
purcase of an equivalent amount under the STP. Presentation of the STF to the IMP's Executive Board
is planned immediately before the Bank Board meeting, and is based on presentaion of a firm financing
plan for clearing FYR Macedonia's arrears to the Bank (para 32), and on assurance that presentation of
the ER1/C to the Bank's Board will take place soon after the approval of the STF program.
Sftcwal Reforms for Sustaable Stabilzaon
25.   In order to sustain stabilization and contribute to restoration of growth, the Government intends
to implement a significant program of structural reforms to support macroeconomic stabilizaton. The
reforms will address problems in the banking sector, the socially-owned enterprises, the labor market and
the safety net. The planned reforms are complex and far-reaching, and their implementation will take
years. Social consensus will be necessary throughout. The legislation submitted to Parliament (and
already largely approved) in the context of the present ERL/C operation is evidence of a major
Government's commitment to the arduous path of reform. The laws now under elaboration also build
on the substantial progress that was accomplished since April 1992.
26.   In the area of bang sector rehabilitation, the Government intends to proceed to a substantial
restrucring of the existing banks, aiming at stopping their role as providers of financing to loss-making
enterprises, and recognizing and making transparent the losses already inured as a burden to be shared
by the budget and by the pqpulation direcy (in the case of the foreign exchange deposits for which no
counterpart is available). Ultdmately, the banks that will emerge from the rehabilitation of the present
institutions will be privatized, once fte supearisory and regulatory frameworks needed for this purpose
are in place. The Govemment is also aware that bank rehabilitation is impossible without a sound
productive base, and has therefore given enteprise privoization and restxtduring the highest priority.
As disssed in section V, all socially-owned enterprises will, in principle, be privatized. Special
arrangements and regulation will be put in place for utilities and providers of public services. Finally,
problem enterprises, particularly those that are large and "difficult to close" for social reasons, will be
dealt with in a rational and transparent manner, and limited by the resources that can be mobilized
through the budget and intemational support.



9
27.   The Govermment has also made impressive steps in the direction of bringing market forces to the
labor mase, eliminating most remanig vestiges of price controls, and permitting an open trade regime,
a necessity for a small country such as PYR Macedonia.
28.   The Government is also cognizant of the central role of public sector reforn in increasing
resources mobilization and providing the means to finance the painful adjustment process. To this end,
it has already begun significant reform of the tax system and of its tax administration (aimed at restoring
the revenue-raising ability of the Government impaired by the enterprise sector crisis), and will engage
in a serious reform of Government institutions and programs.
29.   With respect to expenditure programs, the priority is on reform of the sodal safety net. Spending
on social transfers has increased substantially in the last two years, to over a fifth of GSP (including
health). As a result, the social security system is running a deficit (over 5 percent of GSP in 1993). The
system was, in part, funded by transfers from the former SPRY; the Government realizes that it has no
choice' ,ut to adjust to the changing circumstances. The indications are that, quite aside from the current
devastating economic impacts of external events, FYR Macedonia would not be able to sustain the
inherited social programs and services in their present form. The authorities are designing reforms to
put the programs on a sound financial footing, at a cost the country can afford. While poverty reduction
may not be possible during the present difficult circumstances, the Government is committed to protectng
the most vulnerable by better targeting vital support to those who need it most. In the area of socia
assistance, the main elements of the reform program are opening up of the labor market, particularly by
facilitag labor shedding while providing an adequate and affordable safety net for the unemployed, and
better targeting pensions and entitlements while reducing overall expenditures. In the reform of the health
system, special emphasis will be on improving both resource mobilization and resource allocation through
downsizing and stramlining. Health expendiures would focus on preventive care, particularly for infants
and children (paras 40-41).
Sectoi odeas
30. The Government's priorities include the improvement of infrastructure, particularly transportation
n energ, and  t ring and development of agriculture. Investment in the transport sector has been
Very low in the last three years. The critical lack of foreign currency has prevented the realization of
urgent and important investments, and has contributed to the near-collapse of the experienced, and
formerly strong, contracting industry in FYR Macedonia. Development of the East-West transportation
corridor is urgendy needed in order to absorb the traffic generated by the increasing trade with Western
and Eastern Europe, and as an alterative route because of FYR Macedoni's inability to make full use
of its North-South corridor. In the energy sector, several investment priorities identified by the
Government include inter-alla natural gas transmission and distribution facilities and expansion of
electricity transmission and measures to increase industrial energy efficiency. Restrucuring and
development of agriculture (where PYR Macedonia enjoys a strong comparative advantage) is a priority
area for the Goverment because of its potential quick returns through increased trade with neighboring
countries, and also because of the substa   proportion of the population for which prvate agrcultural
production is important in terms of both housebold food consumption and income generation. Currently,
the dominan  of agro-kombinats and coopeatives is the maiW obstacle that prevents producers from
receiving market-based signals, and thus improve productivity. Its policy for the sector is based on
reliance on the private sector to generate production gains.



10
B. Elnts of the Bank's Asstce Strategy
31.   Strong intemational support is necary for PYR Macedonia's survival in the current hostile
extrnal environment. Support has to be timed to respond best to FYR Macedonia's needs: the magnitude
and type of problems argue for an initial boost from the intemational conmunity to assist in normalizing
FYR Macedonia's international financial relations, and to support the Govenmuent's reform efforts
through a very difficult first year, with a substantially front-loaded program. The Bank's overall strategy
for FYR Macedonia is to assist in overcoming the serious economic difficulties inherited from the past,
exacetbated by the break-up of the former Yugoslavia.
32.   The clearance of FYR Macedonia's arrears to the Bank is a necessary first step: the Bank and the
IMP are working with the support group established for this purpose under the leadership of the
Government of the Netherlands. The fnancing plan for the clearance of arrears to the Bank involves
several elements: (I) support group contributions, in the form of capital grants from bilateral donors,
supplemented by a short-term loan from a single donor6; (ii) the use of FYR Macedonia's own foreign
exange reserves; (iii) resources to be made available to FYR Macedonia under the IMF's STP; and (iv)
bridge fiancing, led by the Netherlands Central Bank and carried out through the Bank for International
Settlements, for the short period between clearance of arrears and disbursements under the loan/credit's
40 percent retoactive financing provision.
33.   FYR Macedonia is eligible for some financing on IDA terms. Its GNP per capita fell below
US$800 in 1993, i.e., below the Bank's operational cutoff for IDA eligibility. It is also apparent that
FYR Macedonia will have difficulty borrowing substantial amounts on commercial terms, particularly
in 1994, at a time when financing needs will be quite large, and the treatment of arrears to commercial
and o    creditors will still be under discussion. Given the commitment of the Government to implement
a stong program of adjustment and reform, and provided that the polidcal situation in the area improves,
we nevertheless expect that FYR Macedonia would gradually move towards borrowing on commercial
terms, and ultimately become eligible for IBRD-only lending.
34.   It should be underscored that the Bank will initially be lending in a very risky enviromnent.
Despite the Govemment's commitment to the reform program agreed with both the IMO and the Bank
(Section V and Annex A), the regional circumstances are such that FYR Macedonia's ability to implement
agreed policies and projects might be suddenly compromised. Our planning horizon is limited to three
years. In the first year, two adjustment lending operations are planned: the second one would follow the
ERL/C quite closely (provided that no dramatic deterioration in economic performance occurs as a result
of adverse extnal developments), and is part of the balance of payments and arrears-clearing support
needed by PYR Macedonia in calendar year 1994. After these first two operations, if policy conditions
are adhered to, and if economic conditions permit, under the base case scenario, the Bank would add
sector investment operations to the lending program. Specific investments would be carefully chosen to
Mr. George Soros has agreed to make a short-term loan in the amount of US$ 25 million to FYR
Mace a, with a term of 6 to 9 months. This loan is intended to provide for general liquidity support,
and not all of these funds will be required, or used for the arars clearance. The details of the loan
are being discussed between Mr. Soros' representatives and the Goverment of FYR
Macedonia. The Bank's Management may need to seek a waiver of Section 9.03 of the Bank's General
Condition (negaive pledge) for thi   saction if the short-term loan is secured by a lien on PYR
Macedo's public asset.



11
assist in the most urgent priorities; sector lending would be limited to suppordng reforms that would
further the Government's objectives, such as private sector development, or those with a substantial fiscal
impact. If policy conditions are not adhered to, or if the economy were to deteriorate, whatever the
cause, to the point where continued adjustment and invetment lending would be impnudent, the
Bank/IDA would switch to a low case program.
Base Case Scenario
35.   Our base case scenario is built on the major assumption that trading routes would be adequate
in 1994, and that, starting in 1995, progressive normalization in the area would permit resumption of
trade through the northern border or that, alternatively, development of the East-West route would be
sufficiently advanced to permit by-passing the northern border without excessive economic cost. This
would allow the Government to continue its positive adjustment performance and to carry out agreed
policies. In these circumstances, the Bank's overall lending program for FYR Macedonia would include
(i) a series of operations in support of FYR Macedonia's adjustment program, which would also provide
balance of payments support, and (ii) sectoral investment lending beginning in FY95. The overall
program for the next three years would fall within a lending envelope of US$190 million on IBRD terms
over the FY94-96 period, pips an IDA allocation of $40 million in PY94, and $15 million yearly
thereafter. This would translate into lending of US$60 million a year during 1995-96, of which US$15
million would be on IDA terms and US$45 million would be on IBRD terms, following exceptional
ommitments of US$140 million (US$40 million of IDA and US$100 million of EBRD) in 1994 in
conjunction with the arrears-clearing operation. IBRD and IDA disbusemens would amount to an
average of 36 percen of total new disbursement, and would account for about 20 percent of the projected
fiancing requireme  in the 1994-97 period, as indicated in Table 3. In the short-run the Bank exposure
remain constant; a moderate inrease is envisaged in the outer years under the base case scenario. The
first economic and sector work would be a Country Economic Memorandum, possibly followed a social
sector review, including a poverty assessment thereafter. Environmental concerns will initially be
addressed under the enterprise restructuring program.
SWuppt to the A 4usen Progm
36. Under the base case scenario, activities to be undertaken in the short run include assistance to the
stabilization program and structural reforms already initiated by the Government. Our initial operations
will be policy-based quick disbursing loans. Two key projects will help achieve stabilization and
sustainable development. First, and in parallel with the stabilization efforts being supported by the Fund,
the Bank would support the Government's initial steps in the reforn of the enterprise and financial
sectors, and in labor market and social safety net reforms, through the Economic Recovery Loan/Credit
discussed in this document (Section V). The second operation would emphasize ipwlemeon of next
steps of reforms initiated in connecdon with the ERLIC, and would be focussed on bank rehabilitation,
privation of banks and socially-owned enteprises, and financial restrucing of enterprises in
difficulties. This second operation would also be crucial for balance of payments support, and would be
presented to the Board in FY94. It would also contribute to clearance of arrears to the IFC.
37.   An Investment Recovery Project (IRP) i tenatvely plaed to follow the second adjustment
operation, to support private and privatized enterises through :he domestic commercial baing system
providing long-term funds needed in the economy. A Technical Assistance for Economic Reform credit
would complement the adjustment operations.



12
38.   A third adjustment loan is envisaged to continue the balance-of-ments support to FYR
Macedonia, and build upon the reform program. It would support further reforms of the social safety
net - focussing on improved targeting to the poor - and would streamline the Government budget. It
could also contain components for reform of civil service and State administration.
Sectoral Program
39.   The adjustment operations would be accompanied by priority investment operations aiming at
restoring and revitalizing the productive potential of the economy, and at diversifying the trading routes,
that are vital to this largely trading nation. The first investment loan is under preparation in the transport
sector. The main objective of the project would be to improve the main East-West trade route. The
focus would be on civil works to improve the East-West road corridor, particularly between Skopje and
the Albanian border at Cafasan, and expand the facilities of the Albanian port of Durres, including
arrangements for FYR Macedonian transit traffic in Durres. The Bank would support the main elements
of an agricultural reform strategy to build on private sector capabilities to increase agricultural potential
in accordance with domestic and export market demand. Initial project assistance would likely to be
through a Private Farmer Support Project. In the energy sector, the Bank will further investigate the
Government's priorities (para 30) in order to identify projects for possible Bank financing.
40.   A Health Sector Restructuring Project, which would address the urgent need for replacement of
long-amordzed critical equipment and implement cost-containment and health insurance policy initiatives,
is also envisaged. The project would assist in strengthening incentives for efficiency and quality of health
care, including: redefinition of public and private roles in service provision; revision of the insurance plan
and cost reimbursement system; greater managerial autonomy and financial accountability for health
facilities; and greater patient choice and direct participation in the cost of health services. It is envisaged
that the operation would be carried out in collaboration with the European Union.
Low Case Scenario
41.   The most important risk associated with any strategy for FYR Macedonia - the potential lack of
progress in the restoration of regional stability- is beyond the control of the FYR Macedonia authorities.
Without regional stability, FYR Macedonia's hopes of reopening traditional trading routes and markets
will not be realized, and the small and isolated economy would stagger into even greater recession. Even
with a successful work-out enabling FYR Macedonia to draw on its first operation, there would still be
the risk that the country would not be able to sustain its program of macroeconomic and adjustment
policies dae to the continued hostile environment. The trigger for our low-ase scenario would be the
inability to continue policy reform due to the worsening of economic conditions reslting from external
factors. Alternatively, the Government's implementation capacity might also be compromised if intenal
diagreements were to result in loss of parliamentary support for the reforms. Under these circumstances,
we would retreat to a low case core program, containing the high priority transport project and a small
number of investment projects with high social content. Disbursements would fall to some US$5-10
million a year during 1995-97, and operations, with an exception of the transport project aimed to
improve the main East-West trade route, would be limited to those which aim at softening the impact of
the economic deterioration on the poor. Maintaining health conditions would be a main focus, and the
Bank could also consider some income support programs. Operations to be considered would include
assistance in the area of preventive health, particularly critical imports such as essential drugs and
vaccines, in order to maintain vaccination rates in infants. Social assistance would need to focus on urban
areas (the rural population - with largely privately-owned land in small, fertile plots - is likely to be able



13
to maintain subsistence levels of agriculture). Assuming continued debt service, Bank exposure would
continue to decline. However, it is also possible that, under these conditions, FYR Macedonia may again
lose its ability to service its obligations to the Bank. New lending would then be suspended.
Por(folio Implementaion
42.   As part of the former Yugoslavia, FYR Macedonia has some experience in implementing Bank
projects, although there are no loans currently under implementation. All loans to FYR Macedonia were
in fact placed in non-accrual status in September 1992. Disbursements benefitting entities within FYR
Macedonia under the last loan that was still, technically, under implementation (Ln. 2338-3: Third Power
Transmission Project) were suspended on June 8, 1992, and the balance of the loan was cancelled as of
December 31, 1993. However, given the new emphasis on adjustment lending under FYR Macedonia's
new status, Government agencies will receive assistance particularly in procurement and disbursement,
to ensure smooth project implementation.
Creditworthness and Exposure
43.   As discussed, creditworthiness of FYR Macedonia is seriously open to question at present.
Nevertheless, even the most prudent posture suggests that lending at this point in time is justified. By
pursuing the path of the debt-workout and taking the chance of opening new lending, risks are not
measurably greater than under a "do nothing" scenario. The result of the debt work-out and the first two
adjustment loans would be a relatively constant Bank exposure (albeit with a new profile). If the present
loan/credit were not granted, and therefore, the work-out were not successful and arrears did not get
cleared, the Bank would have a similar level of exposure without any new lending, but there would be
even poorer prospects for the eventual recovery of these balances. Under these circumstances, FYR
Macedonia, without substantial support from the international community, would have great difficulty in
containing the inevitable social tensions that would be associated with the deteriorating economic
conditions. The outcome of FYR Macedonia ceasing to exist in its present form would not be outside
the realm of possibility.
Bank Group Activites
44.   Within the Bank Group, the International flnance Corporation had three ongoing activities in the
former SFRY which relate to FYR Macedonia: two loan participations in banks in the former SFRY, and
one loan to "Ruen Kocani", an automotive and accessories enterprise. FYR Macedonia's total debt to
IFC, including principal, interest and other charges, is on the order of US$10.7 million, with arrears of
about US$9.1 million, assuming an exchange rate of DM1.7 per US$. IPC plans to send a mission to
FYR Macedonia in the near future to finalize the details regarding FYR Macedonia's present obligations,
and to consider future operations. FYR Macedonia's membership in MIGA is currently being processed;
no operations are currently under consideration for MIGA or FIAS.
Cooperation with other instistions
45.   Information flows and coordination of activities related to PYR Macedonia within the international
financial community are relatively good at present, due in large part to the activities of the Netherlands
Govemment as sponsor of the Support Group. For example, the Bank has been working closely with the
IMF and the Government in monitoring the macro-economic policy framework and preparing the 1994
stabilization and structural reform program (para 24 and Section V).



14
46.   The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) is planning a wide range of
activities in FYR Macedonia in the near term, giving priority to infrastructure-related projects (the first
loan in the power sector was signed in December 1993). The Bank plans to coordinate its activities in
this area closely with EBRD, starting with the first transport project (East-West road link) mentioned
above. The Bank would also coordinate with EBRD on activities in the areas of: (i) privatization and
private sector development, where EBRD's activities are concentrated on the provision of technical
assistance; and (ii) fmancial sector restructuring, where EBRD is again considering technical cooperation
as well as several initiatives for the development of private banking. Finally, in the agricultural sector,
EBRD, in coordination with the World Bank, would consider developing support services for agriculture
and agro-business transformation, including specific investments in agro-industries together with foreign
investors.
47.   The European Investment Bank (EIB) had previously granted several loans primarily to finance
projects related to the main road and rail corridors. EIB will be determining its investment priorides for
FYR Macedonia following normalization of its relations, including clearance of FYR Macedonia's
arrears. The Bank will coordinate its activities with EIB, particularly in the transport sector.
IV. ECONOMAC PROSPECTS AND EXTERNAL FINANCING
A. A Medium-Term Scenario
Policies for Stbilzation: a Macroeconomic Scenario
48.   External Factors. FYR Macedonia's medium term prospects are heavily dependent on political
normalization in the region, because of the high degree of openness of the country even after the
considerable contraction of trade in the past two years. Resumption of normal trade patterns is necessary
to provide the economy with the imports needed to finance an expansion of production and prevent
fiurther deterioration in the productive infrastructure. In its absence, only a much stepped-up assistance
effort of the international community would prevent FYR Macedonia's economy from sliding fiurther into
economic collapse. For our baseline scenario we assume that, while economic sanctions will not be lifted
during 1994, FYR Macedonia would conine to gain access to international trade via its southern and
East-West routes. A progressive normalization of tensions in the area would follow starting 1995,
allowing resumption of trade via the northern routes. Continued economic sanctions after 1994 and lack
of access to the northern routes would result in much higher financing requirements to sustain the
economy.
49.   Macroeconomic Oudook, 1994-97. Even under our more optimistic scenario, we do not envisage
that FYR Macedonia's economy would be able to show positive output growth until 1996 (table 2).
Following the sharp declines in output of the past three years, overall GSP is seen to decline by some
17 percent in 1993, and it would appear reasonable to expect a further decline of some 8 percent in 1994,
reflectig chiefly the inevitable costs of adjustment in the enterprise and financial sectors. With the
progressive resolution of tensions in the area-provided that appropriate levels of international support
are put forward by the international community and that FYR Macedonia adheres to its program of
domestic adjustment- it is reasonable to expect that the recession could stop in 1995 and growth resume
in later years. FYR Macedonia is located in a strategic location at a crossroads in a region that could
witness a sharp rebound if the easing of tensions allows the post-war reconstruction effort to begin. Its
trading skills and the good quality of a number of its engineering and construction firms could allow the



15
country to take good advantage of renewed opporunities, and resume growth even at a time when the
domestic adjustment effort will be at its highest. Under these conditions, the authorities would have a
good chance to make significant progress on reducing inflation from the high levels of 1993 (some 350
percent), perhaps to about 70 percent in 1994 and about 20 percent by 1997.
Table 2: FYR Macedonia - Medium Tenr Economic Scenario
1  1993     1994    1995    1996 I  1997
(growth rates):
GSP                   -17.0%    -8.0%    0.0%    2.0%    4.0%
per cap. Consumption    3.6%   -11.4%   -0.6%   -0.5%    2.9%
Inflation             350.1%   123.0%   60.0%   40.0%   20.0%
(US$ million):
Trade Balance          -47.0      -54      -77     -68    -59
(percent of GSP):
Current Account Balance   -3.1%    -2.8%   -3.7%   -3.7%   -3.3%
Resources Balance       -1.2%    -1.7%   -2.6%   -2.0%   -1.3%
Gen. Govt. Balance     -10.0%    4.9%    -4.0%    4.0%   -4.5%
Sources: FYR Macedonia authorties; World Bank staff
50. A considerably more complicated scenario is likely if there is no normalization in the area after
1994. Even with greater aid flows, continued loss of markets and disruption in input supplies would in
all likelihood result in a further output decline in 1995, and the recovery afterwards would undoubtedly
be more modest if at aU possible. Timely provision of international support would be necessary to
contain the further costs of the recession on the population, and avoid compromising the inflation targets
of the Government, as well as the program of structural adjustment. In the absence of even this support,
i is unlikely that the country would survive in its present form: human and polidcal consequences for
the population and the region as a whole could be incalculable.
B. External Finanig and Creditworthiess
51. FInancdng Requirements. Under either scenario discussed above, we project that PYR Macedonia
wil need to increase its recourse to external savings. The trade balance is expected to show a modest
deterioration in 1994 and in 1995 as the economy increases its imports beyond the compressed levels of
1993, before showing modest but sustained improvements in the following years. Similarly, the resources
balne deficit would increase somewhat in 1994 and 1995, to about 2 pernt of GSP, and decline
afterwards. In addition, financing will be required to clear outstanding arrears to IFIs (US$141 million),
to the Paris Club (US$145 million) and to commercial creditors (about US$90 million). With lttle scope
at present for substanti increases in transfers or foreign direct investment, and after allowing for a
moderate build-up of external reserves (to some two months of imports), we project financing
reuirem s of some US$1.1 billion over 1994-97, with a substantial front-loading in 1994.



16
Table 3: Medium-m urnVuanfdg Plan
on mion Of otUS$)
1i993    1994   1995        1996      1997
Current Account Deflcit            52        43       92        96       92
Principal Repayments              106       113      107       100       81
Officia Crediors                106       86       80        73        55
Mutiaterl Crditors            60       37        29       30        16
DlF                         3        2         1         1        0
3RD                        42       21        17        14        7
MDA                         0        0         0        0         0
Odhers Muldlaterd          1S        1S       12        1S        9
BilateM Crediors              38        23       24        17        13
PFivate Credtors                  0        27       27        27       26
Others                            I         0        0         0        0
Clearsnce of  earus                 0       286
IBRD                                     107
Other Muileral 11                         34
Paris Club                               145
I: ncrease inGes Tnt bit erves     55        53       40        40       60
Totda Facing Needs                216       495      239       236      233
% Dist.
1994-97
Gross Disbursements                 0       237      133       125      137          52.6
DbIP2/                          0        65       35        35       35          14.1
IRD                             0        81       30        19       35          13.7
IDA                             0        40        3         6       10           5.0
Odths                            0       50        65       65        58          19.8
Puis Club re4cdug                           126       21        16       13          14.7
Direct oreign lnvestment            0         0        5         5        5           1.2
Areas to Official Creditors        144
Arreas to Private Creditors        22        49       52        50       48          16.6
Net Short-m Capllal                50         0        0         0        0           0.0
Bilateal Creditors/n.e.i. 3/                 83       27        40       29          14.8
Totaliucing Sources               216       495      239       236      233
1/ Inchde US$9 Miio of arrers to IFC.
2/ Ihe DP amount assumes a eeyear arrnagment startg disburements in mid-1994, for a cumultve
150 percent of quota. This is not yet nWegoed.
3/ The 1994 amount Includes US$35 milion of donors' support required for clearance of lFPls arrears and
US$48 mMion for onelgible Paris Club debt. The latr peion has not yet been negotiated.
52.    These fnncing requirments (which mnclude the amounts needed to clear most arreas) would
be met tdro    a combination of borrowing from IFls, from exceptional financing from bilateal donors,
and from debt relief in the form of rehedling of eligible principal and interest arrers and principal
failing due from the Paris Cub creditors. Resolution of a settlement with commerial creditors is likely
to take a consierable amount of time, as there is no agrment yet on the framework for the



17
apportionment of the commercial debt of the former Yugoslavia among successor states. We have thus
assumed that all payments falling due in the period to commercial creditors woud be deferred. Table
3 describes one such fiancing scenario. Under this scenario, IBRD/IDA would provide 19 percent of
the total financing requirements for the 1994-97 period. Debt relief, rescheduling and deferrals would
contribute one-third, and fresh money from other creditors about 36 percent. The World Bank would
contribute one third of new money, but the Bank's increase in the exposure to PYR Macedonia would
be limited, given the clearing of arrears amounting to 56 percent of end-1993 exposure. Indicators of
creditworthiness and Bank exposure are within gtudelines (table 4), with the exception of the ratio of debt
service to preferred creditors to total debt service. A substantial amount of debt reduction as part of a
negotiated package with either the Paris Club or commercial bank creditors would be welcome, although
it would result in increase in the ratio of debt service of preferred creditors to total debt service. The
continued heavy debt burden and substantial financing requirements confirm the need to vievw FYR
Macedonia as a very risky environment, and to closely monitor any future increase in exposure.
Table 4: Creditwortiness and Bank Exposure
1993    1994    1995      1996     1997
Total debt (US$m)                 $946    $1,141   $1,307   $1,483   $1,654
Total debt/GSP                    69.0%    87.7%    98.5%    107.4%   113.0%
Total debt/Exports of GNFS        86.0%    99.2%    119.5%   124.9%   128.2%
Total debt service                $152.9  $261.9   $167.4   $173.5   $167.8
Total debt service/GSP            11.2%    20.1%    12.6%    12.6%    11.5%
Total debt service/Eports of GNFS  13.9%    22.8%    15.3%    14.6%    13.0%
Bank Exposre:
Total Debt ( US$m)                $178.8  $173.4   $189.7  $200.6  $238.5
Bank Debt/Total debt              18.9%    15.2%    14.5%    13.5%    14.4%
Bank debt service                 50.7     133.2   28.4    25.8    20.3
Bank debt service/Exports GNFS    4.6%     11.6%    2.6%    2.2%      1.6%
Bank debt service/Total debt service    33.2%    50.9%    17.0%    14.9%    12.1%
Payments due Prefered Creditors/  50.6%    61.1%    31.1%    37.8%    35.7%
Total Paymes due
Source: World Bank esimates



18
V. THE GOVERNMNT'S PROGRAM UNDER THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY
LOAN/CREDIT
An Agenda for Sustainable Stabilzaton and Output Recovery
53.   As discussed in Section ID, the Govemnment of FYR Macedonia is aware that it cannot afford to
wait for a resolution of the regional tensions to begin to confront its economic problems. The country
must capitalize on the experience gained in the past year and implement a program of action that goes
beyond short-term emergency measures and tackle instead the structural impediments to growth. Success
depends on the renewed availability of external credit from the international community. Critically,
however, it hinges on the removal of distorted incentives and the elimination of microeconomic deficits
at their source. This, in turn, requires the implementation of an integrated program of enterprise,
financial sector and labor and social safety net reforms, as well as appropriate support from fiscal and
incomes policies.
54.   Successful stabilization would depend on the removal of the fundamental sources of money
creation, which in FYR Macedonia lie in the quasi-fiscal losses generated by the enterprises and banks.
Only such correction will effectively shield NBM from financial sector pressures which in turn
accommodates the enterprise sector pressures. In addition, a credible incomes policy is an essential
element of stabilization. As discussed, the lack of enforcement of a nominal anchor in wage behavior
has been one of the main reasons for the coninued high and variable level of inflation. Wage awards
unrelated to productivity increases generate strong pressures on the enterprises and banks, and thus
undermine economic stability. Until a sufficiently large share of the economy is privatized, an active
incomes policy thus remains a necessary condition for an economic program.
Macroeconomic Program for 1994
55.   The macroeconomic program for 1994 assumes a further contraction in GSP of some 8 percent,
and targets an inflation rate of 70 percent during the year (123 percent on an annual average basis). The
rsumption of voluntary external financing would allow the current account deficit of 2.8 percent of GSP
in 1994, compared to the near balance in the 1992 and a deficit of 3.1 percent of GSP in 1993 that was
financed by increase of external arrears. The exchange rate is expected to continue to be determined by
the market. The gross reserves of the NBM are targeted to increase to the equivalent of almost two
months of imports by year-end.
56.   The cornerstone of the Government program is a combination of a strong incomes policy,
restrictve monetary policy and an overall fiscal adjustment targeted to reduce the deficit from 10 percent
of GSP in 1993 to about 4.9 percent in 1994. Incomes policy measures would aim to limit the monthly
increase in wages during the first semester of 1994 to around 1.5 percent below the targeted monthly rate
of inflaion. The increase in NBM credits envisaged under the program is projected to amount to only
30 percent during the first semester of 1994, which would translate into an expansion in commercial
credit of around 20 percent. Fiscal measures include a replacement of the large number of sales tax rates
by a general rate of 15 percent, the abolition of most exemptions, a reduction in agriculture subsidies
from 2.9 to 1.8 percent of GSP, changes in social security (pension) legislation that will generate a 2
percent of GSP gain in revenues, public sector wages reduction by 5 percent and reduction of other
current expenditures by about 0.5 percent of GSP, mainly through better targeting of food subsidies.



19
A Program of Strcra AJubnext Measures
57.   The adoption of a strong package of short-term adjustment measures supported by the STF as
discussed in para 24 is the cornerstone of FYR Macedonia's Government effort to restore macroeconomic
stability. However, in order to sustain stabilization, remove distorted economic incentives and contribute
to the restoration of growth, the Govenmment also intends to implement a far-reaching program of
structural reforms.
58.   The proposed Economic Recovery Loan/Credit would support a first set of reform measures to
accompany the STP. The precise formulation and implementation of the Government's medium-term
program would be supported during 1994-95 by a proposed Stand-by/ESAF with the IMF and by a
possible second adjustment operation with the Bank. The Government reform package is being envisaged
as comprising measures in four broad areas:
*     macroeconomic stabilzaton and removal of distoiled incentives.  The measures
supported by the program would help move from emergency to reconstruction by
ensuring that adequate resources are allocated in the budget for the absorption of the costs
of the enterprise and financial sectors restructuring, including social costs, by laying out
the foundations for reform of revenues and expenditure programs, and by removing
existing trade and price distortions;
*     banking sector resructuing and eventual privation are required to tackle the
complex problems inherited from the past (the foreign exchange deposits and the external
debt), to arrest the flow of quasi-fiscal expenditures that takes the form of defaulted
credits, and to provide a sound framework for the financing of economic activity;
*     enteprpse privazaton and restruAring, focusing on (i) implementation of recently
approved Privatization Law, (ii) improved govermance of state enterprises and (iii)
necessary legislative measures to support private sector development and foster public
enterprise privatization and restructuring of loss-makers;
e     labor market reforms will allow labor shedding and implement active labor market
programs to deal with already high unemployment; and measures to foster cost-
effectiveness and sustainability of the social safety net, particularly in the area of
pensions, unemployment benefits and financing of health expenditures.
59.   The initial steps in the implementation of these structural reforms to be supported under the
Economic Recovery Loan/Credit are described in the sections that follow. Each section starts with an
identification of key issues. The Government's long-run reform agenda, which is also described in the
Letter of Development Policy (see Annex A), is briefly discussed thereafter. The specific measures
supported by this loan/credit, which have been adopted prior to Board Presentation, are highlighted in
bold. These measures are summarized in the Policy Matrix in Annex B. The accompanying Letter of
Developmen Policy descnrbes in detail the intentions of the Government with regard to the elaboration
and implementation of measures that will occur after Board Presentation. A satisfactory track record in
implementation of the latter measures will be a condition for further operations in the corresponding
sectors.



20
A. Macroeconomic Policies for Stabiation and in Support of Stuctural Reforms
Fiscal Policis
60.   As discussed in section n, FYR Macedonia's public sector has plunged into a financial crisis due
to the loss of transfers from the former Yugoslav federation, the economic recession, and the growth of
entitlements under social programs. ITntil now, large accrual deficits have not translated into loss of
contr( 1 over money creation only tharks to running large arrears on domestic and external creditors.
However, this stratey is frgile, exposed to continuous pressures, and fails to recognize appropriately
the costs that will need to be incurred into order to eliminate the large quasi-fiscal deficits now hidden
in the banking sector.
61.   The fiscal strategy of the Government for 1994 aims at consolidating the control over the deficit
by attacking the underlying causes of disequilibrium in expenditure and revenue programs. The need to
avoid slippage and hyperinflation demands implementation of short-term emergency measures, in line with
the STP agreement, to raise revenues and cut expenditures. But in addition, provision of adequate fiscal
support to the structural reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors, as well as in the social safety net
is recognized as a key objective in stabilization. The amount of fiscal support will depend to a crucial
extent on the solution adopted to deal with the problem of the frozen foreign exchange deposits.
Preliminary estimates indicate that, if a Government takeover of foreign exchange deposits is avoided,
the added burden on fiscal expenditures associated with the implementation of structural reforms could
be contained to some 4 percent of GSP per year over the next few years. That would comprise about
2 percent of GSP for bank restructuring (mostly related to the servicing of the banks' foreign liabilities
and guarantees, and, evenually, to the servicing of treasury bills that snight be needed to provision losses
on account of denar credits), and about 1.5-2 percent of GSP for social safety net expenditures directly
related to economic restructuring, such as severance payments, unemployment compensation and
retraining programs.
62.   If a takeover of foreign exchange deposits were not avoided, the budget would be burdened with
additional costs amounting to at least 3 percent of GSP, which would bring the total costs of restructuring
to around 7 percent of GSP. It is unlikely that such an added burden could be financed in non-
inflationary ways, particularly in view of the fact that clearance of existing budgetary arrears should be
given high priority. Therefore, the government will implement a non-fiscal solution to the problem of
frozen foreign exchange deposits, as described in the next section.
63.   On the revenue side, the government is committed to the implementation of short-term measures
to shore up tax collection, and to proceed quickly to a program of tax reform. As in other reforming
socialist economies, the design of the tax reform aims, over the medium term, at the introduction and
strengthening of broad-based direct and indirect taxes (personal and corporate income tax, VAT and an
appropriate set of excises). The authorties, in addition, are in the process of reviewing the level and
structure of import tariffs, and will consider, if necessary, the introduction of an import surcharge without
exemptions.
64.   Tax administration is likely to be one of the consttining factors in the years to come (tax
administration is split among several agencies, is not adequately equipped, and its mission and tasks
require redefinition). In addition, a large proportion of future growth is likely to come from hitherto-
untaxed (and difficult to tax) sectors. Therefore, the pace of reform and the choice of instumnents for



21
taxation will have to reflect appropriately the administrative constraints, with heavy emphasis given to
presumptive methods of taxation.
65.   The fiscal recovery progran is thus a complex, multi-year effort. The initial measures have
already been largely implemented by the Government in the context of the fornmlation and parliamentary
approval of the 1994 economic program. To this effect, by Board presentation, the Government provided
for:
*     Approval by Parlament of a 1994 budget consistent with overall macroeconomic
objectives.
*     Provision In the 1994 budget approved by Parliament of tranparent fiscal support
to strucral reforms of about 4 percent of GSP: O) bank ri  (servicing of
banks extermal debt obligations assumed by the state and costs assocdated to the bank
restructurig program); and (fi) targeted assistance to flnance closure and
restructing costs of enterpris  under the privatizaton program and/or loss
makers (suh as retrining of laid-off workers, increased unemployment benefits and
socal assstance oudays, costs of dosing down operations and enironmental clean-
Up). The fiscal support will be in the form of a coutingent budget reseve to be used
expcitly for bank rehabilitation and enterprise rescturing. Use and possible
aocation of these ftmds will be reviewed at midyear.
incomes Polics
66.   Real wages fell sharply in recent years, and in early 1993 had declined to almost half of their
1989 level. This drop in real wages was inevitable, given the dramatic collapse of output and the lack
of adjustment by FYR Macedonian enterprises. However, this result was obtained not through the
implementation of a conscious wage policy, but rather through a nominal wage-price spiral outside the
control of policy-makers. ndeed, the absence of any wage restrictions since February 1993 has resulted
in significant real wage increases in the second half of the year. By late 1993, real wages had regained
their prestabilization levels.
67.   This recent increase in real wages points to a problem that has been common to most former
socialist economies, and that is perhaps more acute in the fonner Yugoslavia. The absence of an
advocate for capital, and the prospect of eventual privatization of the enterprise, provide an incentive to
its current workers for maximum consumption of the capital base of the firm. For this reason, many of
the former socialist economies have found it necessary to introduce controls over wage increases. The
exact nature of the control scheme has varied country-by-country, ranging from indirect, tax-based
controls (Poland, Hungary) to partal indexation schemes (Slovenia). In FYR Macedonia, the case for
wage restrictions needs to be made forcefully before the public, to minimize the political impact of this
measure and to set the pre-conditions for a successful stabilization and for a supply response.
68.   For this reason, the Govermnent of FYR Macedonia has decided to implement an incomes policy
that will be applicable to the non-private enerprise sector and the general government. The policy will
consist of the following elements:



22
(a)    Monthly wage increases in the enterprise sector will be limited to 1.5 percentage point
below the targeted inflation rate or the actual rate if lower. Excess actual inflation over
targeted inflation will be compensated at S0 percent.7
(b)    Monthly wage increases for employees in the general government will be limited to 2.5
percentage point below the targeted inflation rate. Excess actual inflation over target
inflation will be compensated at 50 percent.
To this effect, before Board presentation the Government provided for:
0      Approval of legislation by Parlament to set ceilings on wage increase in socially-
owned enterprises and in the general govenment, with only parti Indexadon of the
cost of living.
Monetary Polky
69.   As discussed, although monetary policy was supposed to be the cornerstone of the stabilization
effort following the currency reform, the Government was unable to maintain the desired stance because
of the pressures generated by the compulsory selective credit schemes and the need to sustain enterprise
losses through bank credits. Reversing the loss of control over monetary aggregates thus involves a
combination of fiscal measures, as described, of monetary and credit policy measures, and of enterprise
and banking measures. The NBM itends therefore to take immediate measures to regain control over
monetary aggregates. During the fourth quarter of 1993 and the first quarter of 1994 it plans to limit the
issuance of selective credits to MKD 182 million and 140 million, respectively. These are projected to
amount to 36 and 24 percent of the issuance of reserve money in the respective periods. As of March
31, 1994, any such rediscounting will be completely discontinued.
70.   The NBM has already begun to provide liquidity to the banking system through competitive
auctions. This will become the main vehicle for control of liquidity in 1994. However, given the critical
state of the banking system, the NBM will for the time being also enforce credit ceilings on the extension
of credit by the commercial banks, set with respect to the overall expansion of credit and complemented
by individual limits for commercial banks. On the basis of the economic program assumptions, the
monetary program for 1994 projects an increase in denar-denominated liabilities of the banking sector
of some 90 percent, which would allow for an increase in credit to the productive sector of 35 percent
in nominal terms (excluding capitalization of interest and principal due on outstanding credits). The
measures outlined below to foster banking sector rehabilitation will provide an appropriate environment
for the channelling of these credit resources to viable enterprises.
71.   Before Board presentation, the FYR Macedonia's authorities provided for:
*     Approval by Pariant of appropriate legWation to eliinate the grantig of new
selecdve credits as of March 31, 1994.
7  Example: if the targeted inflation rate in any month is x percenge points, the wage paid for the month
will be increased by x-l.S percentage points over the previous month (or zero if the target is less than 1.5
pern). If the realized Iflation rate (p) in the same month is greater than x percentage points, the wage
in the following month will be increased by an additional (px)*O.5.



23
Removal of Trade and PWce Distorions
72.   FYR Macedonia is in the process of discarding the complex trading system inherited from the
former Yugoslavia, which included several quotas. Import tariffs presently range from 0 to 25 percent.
The large number of zero-rated items, as well as the numerous exemptions for categories of items and
importers have led to a very low average tariff rate (4.7 percent at present). While continuing their work
for a revision of the tariff code and its adaptation to European standards, the authorities will consider,
in the next few months, the possibility of imposing a uniform surcharge in the 5-7 percent range, if fiscal
considerations were to warrant it. Regarding quantitative trade restrictions, the new system that will be
in force from January 1, 1994 will not incorporate quotas for exports (with the exception of weapons,
illegal drugs and other dangerous items), and will reduce the number of goods subject to quantitative
restrictions to about 4 percent of total imports (mostly on agricultural goods and for limited periods of
time in the year), from 16 percent under the current system. In addition, the authorities intend to review
by June 30, 1994 the system of quotas, with a view to reducing it further and replacing it, where
necessary, by equivalent tariffs. In the meantime, the administration of all remaining quotas will be
changed to an auction system, whose revenues will accrue to the budget.
73.   FYR Macedonia has also made important progress in the reduction of the share of controlled
prices in all commodities. By end-1993, the range of controlled prices will be reduced further, through
the further liberalization or the imposition of only a notification requirement for the prices of milk,
municipal rents and services, water supply, central heating and motor vehicle insurance. By end-1993,
real prices of electricity and oil derivatives will be increased, and in the course of 1994, a policy amiing
at further increases in real terms of electricity prices will be in place, in order to reduce losses in the
utility sector. The share of controlled prices will be reduced, by these actions, to 14 percent.
74.   By Board presentation, the Government provided for:
*     Reduction of share of quotas In total hnports clasifiaon   sitions from 16 to 4
percent. Agreement on a plan of action for the Implementation of an auction system
for remaiing quotas.
*     Further lberalzaton of prices (milk, water supply, central heating, car insurance,
municipal rents).
B. Policies to Address the Banking Sector Crisis
75.   The banking sector in FYR Macedonia is in a state of crisis, the manifestations of which are
threefold. First, the banks are saddled with a large amount of foreign exchange deposits (in excess of
US$1 billion, or approximately half of the size of the aggregate balance sheet of the banking system) now
frozen, but whose corresponding assets have vanished. Second, the banks have on their balnce-sheets
other foreign liabilities (debt to commercial banks as well as to IFIs, including the World Bank)
amounting to some US$600 million, which had been on-lent in foreign currency to finance projects of
domestic public enterprises. Most of these projects are now in default. FNnaly, the banks also hold
denar-denominated assets, the counterpart of which is their denar deposit base. A large portion of these
assets is also likely to be worthless, as it reflects the support to current operations given to the enterprises
as well as the selective allocation of credit in existence until now. As a result of the combination of these
factors, the banking sector is technically insolvent, the level of interest rates and of intmediaon spreads



24
may be driven up, and badly needed credit for resumption of activity is syphoned off by the rolling over
of, and the capitalization of interest on, bad credits.
76.    The current crisis of the banking system results from three structural, and interconnected, flaws
inherited from the system which prevailed in former Yugoslavia. FYrst, banks are used to finance the
quasi-fiscal losses of the enterprise sector; this implicit function results in, and is in turn facilitated by,
the organization of the banks' governance, where the same enterprises own banks, are represented on
their boards and borrow from them, often well in excess of any internationally accepted prudential
guidelines. Second, banks lack financial autonomy vis-a-vis the State, as evidenced by the imposed
channeling of foreign exchange credits to their major customers, the mandatory transfer to the NBY of
the foreign currency deposits collected from the public, and the dependence on directed credit in the form
of selective rediscounts by the central bank. 7hird, and consistent with the precedent features, the
prudentil regulations and the supervisory capabilities used in the Western countries to ensure that banks
conduct their activities in a sound manner do not exist in FYR Macedonia or are not enforced.
77.   The Government is committed to deal with the banking system crisis in a way that addresses its
root causes. It is preparing, and will finalize by June 1994, a comprehensive bank rehabilitation program
based on the following principles: (i) bank rehabilitation will be accompanied by, and will proceed at
the same pace as, the restructuring and, when needed, the liquidation of ailing enterprises; (ii) the
incentive framework of banks will be profoundly restructured: the borrower-shareholder nexus will be
severed, the complex financial relationship with the State will be clarified, and the regulatory framework
overhauled; (iii) in the context of the especially tight fiscal situation, the budgetary costs of bank
rehabilitation will be contained: special efforts will be made to spread those costs among those who can
bear them, through providing banks with incentives to recover their bad credits to the maximum extent
possible, and by developing non-cash options to solve the issue of the foreign exchange-denominated
deposits of the public. The proposed Loan/Credit would support key steps toward the preparation and
implementation of the bank rehabilitation plan to be further supported by the proposed follow-up
adjustment operadon. In addition, the proposed Loan/Credit would support stop-gap measures to be taken
in the short term in order to stem the flow of losses and prevent further deterioration of the banks'
fmancial condition.
Step-ap Measures
78.   There are currently two possible causes for further increases in the cost of the future banking
system rehabilitation. The first one would be any furiher extension of denar credits to troubled
borrowers. Such extension would, in addition to its fiscal costs, have a severe impact on allocation of
credit to the better borrowers under the stringent credit ceilings recently agreed with the IMF. In order
to address this issue, the Government intends to relieve the banking system of the burden of supporting
enterprises in financial difficulty. To this effect, the Government task force (established under conditions
fostering enterprise sector reform - para 106) will begin, during the first quarter of 1994, a review of the
25 largest loss makers, which account for the vast majority of bad commercial bank loans, and will
proceed to a speedy elaboration of restructuring plans. As plans become operational, the banking system
will be allowed to extend further loans to the corresponding enterprises only if (i) either the company has
become creditworthy following a financial restructuring, or (ii) the Govermnent is willing to extend a
guarantee for the loan if the creditworthiness is contingent upon future events, such as the end of the
economic sanctions. Enterprises that belong to the group of the 25 largest loss-makers, but that do not
fall under the two categories jLst dibwssed, will not be allowed to borrow from the banking system, and
will only have access to budgetary funds to the extent that resources would be needed for social reasons.



25
The Government expects that, as a result of the implementation of the restru ing plans, one half of the
total increase in denar-denominated banking credit allowed under the monetary program during the second
quarter of 1994 will go to either enterprises classified as A or B according to the 1992 audits of the
Banks, or according to the 1993 audits (when available), or to enterprises for which a restructuring plan
has been agreed with the task force. The NBM will issue the relevant regulation to this effect no later
than March 31, 1994. The Government furthermore expects that, six months after the financial
statements of the companies for 1993 are submitted to Social Accounting Office (SOK), it will have
completed the review of all largest loss makers, and entirely relieved the banking system from their
financing outside the restructuring framework.
79.   With interest being accrued on the frozen foreign currency deposits at an annual rate of about 5.5
percent, the cost of eventually assuming this liability increases by about 3 percent of current GSP per
annum, an unsustainable fiscal burden. This may be the most difficult issue faced by the Government,
as it involves past contracts with depositors and public confidence in the banking system. The
Government has nevertheless start to take action, by reducing somewhat the interest rates served on
frozen deposits. The average interest rate on foreign exchange deposit for the second half of 1993 was
reduced to 5.2 percent from the previous level of above 7 percent. The Government is committed to
consider further interest reductions as soon as politically feasible.
80.   Another option being pursued is to accelerate the implementation of schemes allowing for the
conversion of the frozen deposits into State assets in the context of privadzation. To this end, the
Government will speed up the privatization of commercial properties and therefore has undertken the
following measure:
3     Submission to Pariamnent of Law on Commercial Properties aliowing the use of
frozen foreig exchge deposits for purase of commerdal properes.
Rak Rehbn
81.   The Govement has resolved to develop and start implementing, by June 1994, a comprehensive
bank rehabilitaton plan based on the above-described principles, and is committed to work together with
the Bank in the formulation of the detailed strategy. As preconditions toward this objective, the
Government will: (i) commission to foreign firms, by February 1994, comprehensive financial and
portfolio audits8 of the four major banks accounting for about 95 percent of the assets of the banking
system; terms of reference for dtese audits wil be developed in conjunction with the Bank by December
1993; and (ii) submit to Parliament, by December 31, 1993, amendments to Law on Banks and Savings
Institutions establishing the agency (Bank Rehabilitation Agency -BRA) responsible for the commercial
banks rehabilitation process.
82.   Several strategic aspects of the rehabilitation process and the strategy for privatization rmin to
be worked out in the next few months, and depend to a large exten on an assment of the actual exte
of the bad loan problem. The Government, however, already envisages to apply the following principles:
8  The specia aud  wil assess the fianca condition of the banks, based on a through review of their loan
and guarne   portfolio. Portfolio aw il be carried out aor   to international stards,
evaluating not only debt sericing performance as done so far but also the overall fincial situon and
prospects of the debtor eaterpri



26
(i) as authorized by the rehabilitation procedures of the Banking Law, the BRA will be in charge of
rehabilitating troubled banks, will take over ownership and appoint a new board of independent directors,
that would prepare the banks' fnacial and operational restructuring with a view to their privatization;
(ii) the agency will not in principle undertake the task of loan collection, as that could slow loan
collection and enterprise restructuring, and weaken the potential links between enterprise and bank
restmcturing.
83. The Government intends to work together with the World Bank in the formulation of the details
of such strategy, and aims to present a draft of the rehabilitation program for review to the Bank by June
30, 1994.
84.     The financial restructuring of the banking system will be carried out only when the necessary
assurances exist that the reorganized entities can conduct arms'-length business with creditworthy
enterprises. The financial restructuring will aim to ensure that banks reach adequate capitalization levels
and show positive results. It would include a combination of the following measures: (i) a solution to
the problem of foreign exchange deposits that mimizes the call on fiscal resources; (ii) the assumption
by the government of the foreign obligations of the banks which cannot be serviced by the beneficiary
enterprises, once an agreement on arrears and-where appropriate-debt relief with the foreign creditors
is reached; (iii) a program to offset part of the losses on existing denar-denominated credits. In addition,
major improvements will be achieved in the legal and supervisory framework for baling activities.
85.   Dealng with the Frozen Foreign Currency Deposits Problem. The external reserves that were
the counterpart of the foreign exchange deposits (about 60 percent of GSP) had to be surrendered by
bans to the NBY and are no longer available. The Government recognizes that, under the current fiscal
situation, any solution that were to involve the issuance of public debt to back the foreign exchange
deposits would be unbearable. It therefore intends to implement a strategy aiming at a non-fiscal solution
to this problem, consisting mainly of the utilization of foreign exchange certificates in the privatization
process. The level of foreign currency deposits was already reduced by about US$150 million, through
a scheme allowing depositors to use them in the context of apartment privatization. As already indicated,
the next step for the Govermment was to submit to Parliament, by Deember 31, 1993, a draft law on
the privadzation of commercial properties which will include a similar provision for the utilization of
foreign exchange deposits. In addition, the Law of Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital
aready authorizes the utilization of frozen deposits towards the purchase of enterprises. The Government
will elaborate, by March 31, 1994, a plan to implement this provision. As part of this plan, the
Goverment intends to: (i) issue negotiable privatization certificates, redeemable against frozen deposits,
perhaps at a premium; (ii) consider further measures aimed to decrease the attractiveness of holding of
frozen foreign currency deposits, including a reduction in interest rates; (iii) consider the possibility of
converdng foreign currency deposits into shares of rehabilitated banks in the context of their privatization;
and (iv) encourage the formation of pooled resources as a vehicle to accelerate privadzation. For well-
specified distress cases, however, a limited allowance for cash withdrawal will be provided for and
included in the 1994 budget.
86. AssuW,ftlon of Foreign Debt. The Government is currently studying the possibility of assuming
direct responsibility for a substantial portion of all foreign debts (and guarantees) of problem banks and
to allow a writo-down of the credits backed by these foreign liabilities (and guarantees). The extent of
the write-down would need to be based on the estimate of the market value of the corresponding credits,
as assessed by the special audits of the commercial banks that the Government intends to carry out. As
already indicated, the write-down of assets would contribute to the wipe-out of existing equity. The



27
Government would then assume the full value of the banks' foreign liabilities vis-a-vis foreign creditors
(including debts owed to IFIs, to the Paris Club, and to foreign commercial banks). The servicing of the
debts that are assumed by the Government would be subject to the results of the agreements with
individual creditors or groups of creditors to settle foreign debt arrears and maturities falling due. As
a first measure in this respect, the Government has now assumed responsibility for the servicing of the
World Bank debt even in the period prior to resumption of regular lending.
87.   Dealing with Denar-Denominated Bad Assets. A precise assessment of the health of the denar
portfolio will be part of the special audits of the main commercial banks. It is likely, however, that a
large portion of denar-denominated assets of the banking system is probably a loss and will need to be
written off. Depending on the overall assessment of banks and the extent of losses on other assets, such
portion could ultimately be replaced with performing assets of the State or the Rehabilitation Agency.
88.   Improving the Legal and Supervisory Framework. The measures just discussed are intended to
deal with the problems of the past. Substantial improvement to the regulatory and supervisory
frameworks are in addition required to provide an appropriate framework for future operations of old and
new banks. The legal framework of the banking system has indeed already been improved and additional
legislation is expected to be introduced before the end of the year. These legal improvements pave the
way for the long term development of the sector. Nevertheless, additional measures need to be designed
and implemented.
89.   The NBM intends to impose tenporary restrictons on the licensing of new banks, with a qualified
exception for small savings institutions. The recent and rapid increase in the number of banks and the
fragility of the economic and financial environment call for extra caution in the licensing of new banks.
The NBM will limit licensing temporarily to projects proposed by first grade investors with cash
resources sufficient to meet immediately the minimum capital requirement set in the new banking law.
They should also present adequate business plans, be managed by experienced professionals, and have
by-laws providing for the elimination of any role for shareholders having a net exposure vis-a-vis the
banks in the banks' assemblies and boards.
90.   The NBM also intends to embark on a strengthening of the regulatory and supervisoryframework
of the banking sector. Such strengthening is a long-term process requiring the progressive build-up of
experience gained by daily exposure to a wide range of situations. Besides efforts to rapidly establish
an adequate supervisory structure (comprising both on- and off-site supervision capabilities), the
Government intends to advance work for the rapid implementation of the three following steps:
(a)    Enhancement of the existing loan classification and provisioning requirements to accepted
international standards (including assessment of the overall financial condition and
prospects of the debtor enterprises, as per special audits), together with their introduction
by June 30, 1994;
(b)    Phasing-in of the objectives set by the new banking law regarding the ceilings of direct
or connected credits to shareholders and of large risk exposure relative to the banks'
capital;
(c)    Reinforcement of the role that is played, and should continue to be played by
international auditing firms through an enhancement of requested auditing standards.
These should cover a detailed analysis of the loan portfolio and of key operational



28
procedures such as credit policy and risk management, as well as treasury and foreign
exchange operations.
91.   The Govenment, therefore, provided for, by Board presentation, the following measures:
*     FYIna   on of terms of reference for extended audits of the entire portfolio of four
commercidal banks by i onal auditing firms.
*     Asslumption of portions of foreign liabilities of bank corresponding to credits in
foreign currency in default for which agreements exist as to arrears clearance.
*     Submission to Parliament of amendment to Law on Banks and Savings Institutions
establishing the agency responsible for the commercial banks rehabilitation process.
92.   Moreover, in preparation of the bank rehabilitation program, the Government would undertake
the following measures:
-     By end-February 1994, to have commissioned extended audits of four commercial banks.
*     By end-February 1994, to have agreed with the Bank on a plan detailing technical
assistance requirements for the Bank Rehabilitation Agency.
*     By end-March 1994, to develop a plan to use frozen currency deposits in the framework
of enterprise privatization.
*     By June 1994, to have agreed with the Bank on a comprehensive plan to rehabilitate the
banking system.
C. Policdes to Address the Enterrs Sector Crisis
93.   A major requirement for successful economic stabilization is the comprehensive reform of the
enterprise sector, leading rapidly to a clearly defined ownership and effective governance of enterprises.
To that end, the FYR Macedonian Government has adopted a program to move on several fronts: (i)
privatization; (ii) reform of public enterprises, and; (iii) enterprise restructuring. In this context, it has
also undertaken to deal with the problem of the loss-making enterprises. Simultaneously, in an effort to
promote private sector development the Government has prepared and continues to develop new laws
improving the legislative framework for private sector activities.
Privadzatn
94.   The ownership structure of socially-owned and mixed enterprises has been among the main causes
of FYR Macedonia's economic difficulties. Social ownership was devised in former Yugoslavia as an
aiternative to the failed central planning. It was believed that self-management of an enterprise by a
coalition of managers and workers would overcome the problems of state ownership without the perceived
inequities of a market system. However, due to the inherent conflicts which arise when workers and
managers make agreements between themselves about enterprises goals, wage rates, social benefits, etc.
and because of the prerogatives given to workers' councils to approve all important business decisions



29
including the selection of managers, there was no effective advocate for capital and no long-term strategic
view which such advocacy normally provides. Yugoslavia, in an attempt to address these issues,
introduced federal legislation in 1989/90 for transformation of social ownership, but the responsibility
for adopting implementing legislation was left to the republics. FYR Macedonia was one of the republics
which attempted to implement the progran. Some 400 enterprises were fully or partially privatized using
internal shares under the Federal Law on Social Capital. The implementation of privatization under this
law, however, was not well regulated and led to abuses. As a result, in one of its first acts following
independence the Government of FYR Macedonia stopped all privatization under this law.
95.   In an effort to resume and expand privatization, the Government of FYR Macedonia formulated
a new law, the "Law for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital" (Privatization Law), which
was adopted by the Parliament on June 14, 1993.9 Approximately 1,468 enterprises- 100 large, 299
medium, and 1069 small- are expected to be privatized over the next five years. This includes those
enterprises partially privatized under the old federal law.'" Enterprises providing public services and
natural monopolies will not be privatized under this law. Reform and privatization of banks and other
financial institutions will be regulated under separate legislation.
96.    "The Agency of the Republic of FYR Macedonia for the Transformation of Enterprises with
Social Capital" (the Privatization Agency) is the institution responsible for implementing the privatization
program. The deadline for submission of privatization applications to the Privatization Agency is one
year for small-and medium enterprises, and two years for large enterprises. After this deadline the
transformation of enterprises will be initiated by the Privatization Agency. The Law allows the use of
frozen foreign exchange deposits in purchasing shares of companies (para 85). The Government has
agreed to ensure the completion of the review of enterprises privatized by internal shares by December
31, 1994. In addition, the Goverrnent expects the Agency to receive applications for transformation
from another 450 enterprises by December 31, 1994.
97.   As seen in other countries in the region that have entrusted to a centralized agency oversight and
responsibility over the privatization process, it is vital that the institutional capabilities of the agency be
developed, to prevent it from tuning into a bottleneck. The FYR Macedonian authorities are fully aware
that the development of the plan and work program leading to successful implementaton of the
privaization law is the major task ahead. The following issues require special attention of authorities
in order to achieve the objectives in a timely manmer:
O      lming of Privazation.  The time-frame of up to two years for presentation of
privatization plans appears excessively long. The Government might wish to re-evaluate
if shorter deadlines might be feasible and help give greater credibility to the process.
O     Identification of privatization objects. Information is required on: (i) the partially-
privatized eneprises; (ii) size, branch of industry, profitability, location, etc. of
9  The law provides for a multi-track approach relying exclusively on standard methods of prvatizaton
whereby enterprises are privatized one by one.
10 Under the new privatization program these transactions will be audited to ensure that the previous
regulations were followed. The remining socia capital of these enterprises will be privatized under the
new law.



30
individual enterprises; and (iii) enterprises in, or heading for, bankruptcy. Advance
planning will be essential if the pace of privatization is to be mainined. Although the
Privatization Agency has already started this process, it requires additional resources in
order to ensure timely performance.
0     Valaon of enterprises.  The procedures to value enterpnses could delay the
privatization process. As the principle of valuation has been enshrined in the
Privatization Law, and the proposed valuation methodology has been adopted, training
of valuators must begin at full speed.
*     Land privatzadon/ownership.  Exclusion of land from privatization could be an
impediment to rapid privatization. There are, however, legal difficulties in attempting
to privatize urban land that need to be resolved. To minimize the possible negative
effects of this reality, however, it is extremely important to develop a long-term lease
scheme, with transferable leases. The terms and conditions of leases associated with
privatization operations should be fully known at the time of the sale.
98.   By Board presentation, the Government provided for:
*     Issuance of the orgzaton and work program  of the Privatzatilon Agenq,
Includig budgetary alocadon, finandng plan and plan of technical assistance for
1994.
Publc Enterprse Reform
99.   Enterprises in public utilities, public works, social services, as well as in housing, land and
forestry management will initially remain in the state sector. Naural monopolies will also generally not
be included in the current privatization program. A draft law on public utilities and services, which will
govern enterprises (whether stat or privately-owned) that provide public services, is expected to be
ready by Jamnary 15, 1994. The law will provide the possibility of traDsformng public enterprises into
companies under the commercial code, avoiding complex administrative procedures and without
Parliamentay approval. This will allow easy entry of much needed local and foreign private investors
in these capital intensive sectors.
100.  In addition, the Government intends to reform the system of governance of the State-owned
enterprises in public services, and to separate its ownership function from its policy and regulatory roles.
In this respect, the Government plans to establish idependen regulatory systems for public utlities and
services in the near futre, in order to create an environment conducive to private sector entry and
development and to prevent monopolisdc behavior.
Enteprse Resaictwng
101.  Already handicapped by the problem of unclear ownership and inadequate govemance under
SOcial ownership, PYR Macedonian enterprises have also been hard-hit by external factors, such as loss
of major markets and severance of link with traditional suppliers following the collapse of the CMEA;
dissolution of the Yugoslav federation; and more recenty, difficulties caused by the effective closure of
traditional North-South tansport routes for access to international markets. In addition, some FYR
Macedonian industries- particularly heavy industries developed under the former Yugoslav integrated



31
approach to industrialization have inherited a structure which is not adapted to a market economy. As
a result, FYR Macedonian enteprises are experiencing growing accountng losses estimated to exceed
10 percent of GSP. This siuation is unsustainable and requires immediate corrective acdon.
102.  Although restrucuing of enterprises should be initiated by new private owners, it is inevitable
that as the privatization is moving forward, certain enterprises-even if they are not bankrupt-will be so
financially distressed that they will not be attractive to private investors. In other cases, the enterprises
may be too large and require too much private capital to be purchmed under the existing privatktion
legilation. In addidon, a substantal number of the large loss-making enterprises are those expected to
remain, at least for the medium-term, in State hands. The Government, therefore, is planning to adopt
a comprehensive approach to stem these losses.
103. For small eterprises which cannot be privatized, liquidation and auction of assets wfll be
automatic. For medium-sized enterprises, a creditor-led restructuring may be the best approach, as
envisaged under the privatization law. The problem is more difficult for large-scale enterprises as their
estruchui  can have complex soci and regional consequences. In such cases, enterprisebynterprise
analysis and preparation of action plans with the active participation of the Government, will be rqired.
To this effect, the Govemment will establish a task force by March 31, 1994 to coordinate and facilitate
these activities, and designate an agency responsible for their implementation. Budgetary support will
be limited, generally restricted to exceptional cases, and will be provided under transparent procedures.
104. The guiding principle for restructuring will be the assessment of the viability of enterprises or
parts of them, taking into account the specific ciu=msn    affecting the distressed enterprises:
*-    First, for public sector enterprises dpending on regulated tariffs, the Government plans
to review the siuation and formulate a transparent price and incentives structure to enable
these enterprises to become profitable while maintning financial discipline;
o     Second, for those enterpes which could be profitable if traditional internional
transport links were restored, exceptional treatment may be necessary unt the normal
enviroment is re-established; and
*     Third, the remaining enterprises should be dealt with in two separate groups: those which
cover or could cover their variable costs, and may therefore warrant financial and ote
defensive etcring; and those which have no prospect to cover their variable coss
and should undergo swift liquidation.
105.  A credible threat of bankutcy is an eenti driving force for enterprise rest ring. It is,
therefore, important to enhae the capability of the judicial system to effectively and swiftly deal with
the expected hicrease in the number of bankruptcy ca. In addition, enterprises should have the
possibility of shedding redundant labor in an orderly manner and at reasonable costs. The Government
is commited to developing a comprehensive program to facilitate labor shedding and increase labor
mobility.



32
106.  By Board presentation, the Governmt provided for:
*     Establdunt of a task force to formlate and execte its strategy w    reard to
lre losmakens, wt the commibent to ensur reductdon of losses of entepris
whose prices are controlied by the State.
*     Increas  In real tens of prices of distict heatg, electicity and oil deivatves;
announcement of policy to liberalize the first and to set prices for the others that wM
allow fical viabit of the relevant enterpris.
Prvate Sector Development
107. The rapid increase in private sector activity during 1991-1992 suggests that private enterprises
enjoy a reasonably favorable environment in FYR Macedonia although, inevitably, business expansion
is at present constrained by high interest rates and the still poor mobilization performance. The number
of privately-owned businesses increased from 12,987 in 1991 to 34,138 at end-1992 and to 46,019 by
end-May 1993. Despite this impressive progress, additional legal reforms and strengtenig of the
regulatory framework on the one hand, and supporting inf  r (telecommunications, business
services) on the other, could further improve the environment for private enterprise developmet.
108.  Within ths context, in addition to the privadzeion law, the Parliament has recently adopted laws
on seurities and foreign nvestment, and the Govermment is ready to submit to Parliament a draft
commercial code and new labor legislation. Other priorites in legislative and regulatory reform include:
(i) estblist of a proper legal framework for secured transactions including registration of real estae
mad mortgages; (ii) adoption of a public trading act to establish the legal frmework for contactng
between the State and private enterprises for delivery of public services; and (iii) support for reforming
and sdmating the provision of notrial, audidng and aCCOunting services.
109.  By Board presentadon, the Government provided for:
-          Submission to Parliae  of the Commerdal Code.
D. Freeing the Labor Market and Adjusting the Sodal Sdety Net
The Labor Mw*e and Unempymen Compensadon
110.  One of the high-priority tasks of the Government in the coming months-and perhaps the most
challenging one-is to preserve jobs that are economically meaningful, while simultaneously stimulating
labor shdding in thos entprises that suffer from hidden unemployment, that are facing restu
and undergoing privazation. Although the existing FYR Macedonian labor code allows firms to lay-off
workers, it imposes prohibidve costs for doing so: at present, firms must bear most of the burden of
fmn;cing of "technologically redundant" workers (training, purchasing pension credis, finacing forced
vacation", and lump-sum severance pay equal to 24 months' wages). Moreover, such legislation
encourages firms to circmnvent the law by initiating bankruptcy proceedins which allows them to lay-off
workers without incurg financial obligation for them. Abolishing such restrictive redundancy
legislaon is a sine qua non for efficint labor reallocation and for successful privatzaton and private



33
sector development. The cost to firms of laying-off redundant workers should be reduced and the
procedures simplified, but workers should be given advance notification of the layoff.
111. By Board presentation the Govenunent provided for:
v     Presentation to ParHametn a revised draft law on Labor Relaions to make it more
compatible with the workig of a market economy. In particar, Artides 140 to
153 In the Draft Law ou Labor Relations, dated Jy 1993, will be replaced with
articles that contain the foliowing provisions:
(a) the employer has the right to detenine when to terminate a labor relatonship;
(b) at such thne he should Inform the workers, the Trade Union, and the local
Employment Office of the Intention to layoff workers;
(c) workers affected by the layoff should be given minimum six months' notice of
the intended termiation of the labor relationshp;
(d) workers to be laid-off will receive as a lump-sum payment a termination grant
of one monh's wages for every two year of employment up to a maximn of
12 months wages;
(e) payment of the terminaton grant is the responsibility of the employer.
The use to which the termination grant can be put will no longer be tied to setting up a business.
Provision for self-employment and small business development will be provided for elsewhere.
Moreover, as discussed below, laid off workers will be entitled to unemployment compensation if they
are unable to find another job or become self-employed, and they will be eligible to participate in active
labor market programs.
112.  The need for an income support system for workers who lose their jobs is fully recognized in
FYR Macedonia. The Employment Fund provides the unemployed with unemployment compensation,
training reimbursement for moving expenses comected vith reemployment, and health and old-age
insurance. Under present arrangements, workers from bankrupt and liquidated enterprises are eligible
for 30 months' unemployment compensation, and those becoming "technologically' unemployed following
a period of 'paid vacation" are eligible for unemployment compension that varies in length from 3
months to 36 months depending on previous work history. All unemployment compensation is paid at
S0 percent of the past three months' average wage, with a floor of 80 percent of the minimum wage and
no ceiling. During 1993 the Unemployment Fund has been in deficit, and a year-end deficit of MKD
200 million is expected. Because of the deficit, unemployment compensation payments are paid months
in arrears.
113. In order to provide an adequate social safety net for increasing numbers of unemployed the
Government gave high priority to the rationalization of the present system of unemployment benefit by
submitting to Parliament for approval the following measures:



34
*     shortening the duration of maximnm eligibDity to 24 months;
*     Imposing both the floor and ceiing of unemployment compenation (the floor being
80 percent of the minmum wage, as i presently, and the ceing twice as much);
*     equaHzing beneflts of the unemployed due to bankruptcy with other unenployed;
*     sIffening the conditions that disqualify the unemployed for unemployment
compesation (f they receive earnibn  for Irruar work, for example); and
*     raising the payroll contribution to 1.5 percent of gross wages.
Should unemployed workers eligible for compensation exceed 17,500 (the number consistent with the
cufrent budget alocation), additional measures to reduce expenditures will be taken in the course of 1994
- e.g. reducing further the period of benefit entitlement to 18 months. In anticipation of growing
numbers of unemployed entitled to unemployment compensation in 1995, the duration of benefit
entitlement will be reduced to maxhmum one year starting January 1, 1995. Every effort will be made
to avoid raising the payroll tax beyond 1.5 percent of gross wages because of the strong employment
disincenive effects, and, if absolutely necessary, the budget will provide some additional revenue to the
Employment Fund.
114.  Present arrangements provide for training and stimulation of job creation via the payment of 24
months' wages, available for technologically redundant workers, and the capitalization of unemployment
compeaion and training for other categories of unemployed. In 1993, MKD 123 million was allocated
to the former category of unemployed. The latter program was not implemented because of lack of fuids
sad the requrement that training must be tied to a job vacancy. The amendments to the Labor Code
discussed above will eliminate the employers' obligation to provide retraining or 24 wages (for self-
employment) to redundant workers. As a transitional measure, the Government proposes to spend the
MVKD 300 million, earmarked to assist with these programs in the 1994 budget, to allow applications to
this scheme prior to November 15, 1994 to be processed. This will provide for about 6,000 workers.
In order to pave the way for future programs, by June 30, 1994 the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
will finalize a study of active labor market programs that have been tried in other countries, in particular
OECD countries and Central and Eastern Europe. On the basis of that study, it is intended that during
the second half of 1994 active labor market programs, together with the establishment of a monitoring
and evaluation system which will evaluate the cost effectiveness of the different interventions, will be
introduced. These will be funded from the conigent budget allocation discussed above.
Reform of the Social Safety Net
115. As in most other reforming former socialist economies, the social safety net poses a strong
challenge on several fronts. Pirst, social benefits and entitlements are overly generous and prone to
abuse, and could result in unsustainable fiscal pressures. Current outlays for cash benefits (pensions,
social assistance, child allowance, sickness and maternity benefit, health) already account for more than
40 percent of total goverment expenditure (13.2 percent of GSP). Individual programs must thus be re-
examined to ensure their consistency with overall budget constraints. Secondly, in the absence of well-
targeted programs that can specifically address the social costs of the stabilization and strral
trasformation process, support for the reforms may weaken to the point of reversal. Changes are thus



35
necessary to existing social insurance and social assistance programs, and social services in order for them
to fulfil goals and objectives, in particular to reach those most in need, at a cost the country can afford.
Pensions
116.  As was discussed, the pension system in particular is in a state of crisis, as the Government has
been unable to fulfill its obligation and the deficit cumulated in the pension fund has resulted in arrears
in payment of pensions that top three months (and as a consequence in a reduction in the real value of
pensions that are paid). In addition to the labor-market related measures just discussed, the Government
has given a high priority to work towards a resolution of these problems, and has begun a comprehensive
program of reform of pensions and other social benefits. A draft pensions law contains four main
proposals:
*     raise payroll contribution from 18 to 21 percent;
*     increase retirement age for men and women by 3 years to 63 and 58 respectively;
3     base pension on all working years, not just best 10 years;
*     change arrangements for early retirement/buy out years of service.
117. Given the current critical situation of public sector finances, and the already high level of taxation
prevailing in the country, the increase in the payroll tax should be replaced by a more realistic assessment
of the level of benefits that the system can support. A reduction in the real value of the pensions (while
safeguarding pensions of those situated around the poverty line) would be a more realistic way of
restoring viability to the pension fund, or at least avoid an increase in the length of payment arrears,
currently at three months. The other amendments, together with the provision made in the recently
approved privatization law for 15 percent of the proceeds of sales to be transferred to the pension fimd,
either in preferred stocks in case of sale by shares, or in cash, could go a long way to solve the financial
problems of the pension fund. However, the broadening of the period for the calculation of the pension
base would have to be introduced for both new and old pensioners (otherwise, the immediate gains would
be very modest), and the target for minimum pensionable age should be increased to at least 65 for men
and 60 for women, more accurately reflecting life expectancy of people near pensionable age.
118.  Other measures that could help put the Pension Fund on a sound financial footing include: (i)
subjecing pensions (together with earnings of pensioners) to income tax as a way of clawing back some
fairly high pensions; (ii) improving the promptness of contribution payments; and (iii) either bringing
private sector contributions into the Pension Fund, or encouraging the creation of private funds.
119.  The Govemment therefore before Board presentation provided for:
*     Presention of Pemion Law refom to Parliament, lncorporatng
(a) Abollslnnet of eady retrement schemes Induding early rerement pivileges
for militay and polce;



36
(b) bnrease in the retrement age for individuals with 20 isurance periods to 60
years for women and 63 yean for men by 1/2 year every year sarting Januy
1994;
(c) increase In the redrement age for women with 15 Insurance periods from 60
years to 63 years by 1/2 year every year starting January 1994;
(d) hnge In the a_esment period of the best ten consecutive years of work to the
entre working life of an individual for new pensioners;
(e) increase in the assement period for military and police pensions from the best
one year to the 10 best consecudve years;
(f) reduction in the target replacement rate from 8S pement to 80 percent of the
pension base;
(g) increase in the payroll ta rate from 18 percent to 20 percent of gross wage; and
(h) continued resctive indexation policy that ties pension growth to wages In the
non-economic sector.
Social Assistance
120. There are a number of cash social assistance programs, which have either a pre-determined target
group (e.g. assistance for foster parents and those caring for the elderly/disabled, refugees), or are
income contingent (e.g. cash assistance program for handicapped, singles parents, and the elderly who
are not entided to a pension, and social assistance for those falling below minimum subsistence). These
programs represent a comprehensive cash social assistance program.
121.  The progam for the protection of socially endangered populations, the most important social
assistamce program, was introduced in May 1992 and goes a long way to provide cash transfers to those
most in need. The program, which is financed out of general revenues, is designed to help families
whose income falls below a critical minimum, be they wage earners, persons whose unemployment
compensation has expired, pensioners or any other category. The objective of the payment, which is
made on a per person basis up to a maximum of five persons, is to raise total family income to te sodal
protective level which is defined as a proportion of the national average wage. When the program was
intrduced in May 1992 6,000 families became eligible for social welfare. In May 1993 the number
stood at 24,000 families (80,000 people) and it is expected to reach 35,000 families (about 6 percent of
the population) by the end of 1993. In 1994, a fiurther increase in the number of families needing social
assistance - as many as 50,000 - is expected. This will come about following anticipated declines in
real wages and pensions, in growing numbers of unemployed, and increases in the prices of utilities and
otber est  goods and services. MKD 970 million have been budgeted for this program in 1994.
122.  Foreign exchange deposits have been accumulated by families in the belief that in dmes of need
they will have reserves to draw upon. The present circumstances that require the government to tightly
control the use of those assets imposes hardship on many fmilies. It is government policy to allow
families in need access to otherwise frozen foreign exchange deposits. On the basis of a "minimum needs
consumption basket" (which currently amounts to 1.2 times the average wage) a family can be allowed



37
to use a predetenrined sum of their foreign exchange deposits for certain situations - e.g. poverty,
illness. It is intended that this program continue, and MKD 1 billion have been allocated in the 1994
budget.
123.  Bread is part of the staple diet of Macedonians, and carries a subsidy worth MKD 150 million
in 1993. Since the subsidy enters the system at the point of the bakery, it is applied to a particular type
of bread that is consumed by a wide variety of consumers. The Government is aware of the budget cost
of the subsidy and that the subsidy benefits income groups other than those most in need. For these
reasons the Government has decided to abolish this general subsidy and to apply a targeted subsidy at
families most in need. Commencing January 1994, the bread subsidy will be administered through social
welfare offices and will provide recipients of social assistance with the means to buy bread. The cost to
the budget is estimated at MKD 584 million for 1994 - about 0.4 percent of GSP. The Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare will monitor the impact of this program as an integral element of the social
safety net, and will prepare an evaluation of it after one year of operation.
124.  By Board presentation, the Government provided for:
*      Establshment of a targeted bread subsidy scheme replacing the existng generd
sbidy on price.
eformn of Oe Healh Sector
125.  The Ministry of Health is also preparing a proposal for an amended Health Law to be considered
by Parliament in late 1993. While the key reforms have not yet been defined, the objectives include: i)
development of a new health insurance system; ii) rationalization of public sector health services; iii)
introduction of cost recovery mechanisms for cosmetic and optional treatments; and iv) promotion of
private sector health services. These are complex and findamental reforms which merit senous study
and careful implementation. Experience with recent health care reform in Central and Eastern European
countries, as well on-going reform of national systems in other developed and developing countries has
shown that coordinated measures are needed to: i) mobilize additional resources for health care, ii)
rationalize health expenditures; and, iii) introduce incentives for greater efficiency and cost containment
in the provision of health services.
126.  In the FYR Macedonia, Government taxation through payroll contributions has provided
"insurance" for virtually the entire population. However, many more reap the benefits of universal access
to care than contribute to its financing, resulting in a financially unsustainable system in which the quality
of care is sacrificed. Thus, the most critical need in the health sector is to develop a sustainable, long-
temnancingpln for health seruces which relies on an appropriate blend and balance of Governmet
revenues, voluntary pooled insurance funds and personal, "out-of-pocket" income. In addition, creative
solutions are needed to inject resources into the health sector on a temporary, short-term basis. An
additional MKD 5.380 billion (US$224 million) would be needed to restore revenues to their 1990 level
in real terms.



38
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT
A. Rationale for and Objectives of the Loan/Credit
127.  The proposed loan/credit supports the Government's program of stabilization and structural
measures detailed in section V by financing costs associated with restructuring of FYR Macedonia's
economy following the break-up of the Yugoslav Federation. The loan/credit would directly facilitate
the financial workout supported by the international community which is required for FYR Macedonia
to clear its arrears with the Bank. The program backed by the loan/credit will also receive support from
the IMF through a drawing on the Systemic Transformation Facility. The Government's program of
structural adjustmnent measures is described in detail in the attached Letter of Development Policy; the
proposed ERL/C will support initial measures to launch the reforms in four key areas: (a) fiscal
restructuring and retrenclunent; (b) banking sector reform; (c) privatization, enterprise restructuring and
private sector development; and (d) opening up of labor market and adjustment of social safety net.
128.  As discussed in section m, it is expected that this first operation will be followed by an
adjustment operation focused on enterprise and financial sector restructuring, once the appropriate
macroeconomic framework is in place, and provided tha satisfactory progress is accomplished in the
implementation of the actions plans described in the Development Policy Letter. Negotiations with the
BME on a program to be supported by a Stand-by or a similar arrangement are expected to begin in the
first half of 1994.
B. Project Description
LoanwC        Amoant axd Borrower
129. The proposed loan/credit in an amount of US$80 million equivalent (SDR 29 million from IDA
and US$40 million from the Bank) would be made to FYR Macedonia through the Ministry of Finance.
The IDA credit would be for 35 years including a 10-year grace period, and the Bank loan would be for
20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
130.  The proposed loan/credit would finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of general imports,
excluding luxury goods, military equipment, nuclear reactors and parts, uranium, tobacco and tobacco
processing machinery defined under the Standard Trade Classification.
Pruement
131.  Procurement of goods would be carried out according to the Procurement Guidelines (May 1992).
Imports made by ministries, public enterprises and private importers above US$2 million per contract
would be procured in accordance with simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The Bank's
standard bidding douments for goods would be used for ICB procurement under this loan/credit. As
an exception to the above, procurement of oil imports paid for in the period up to four months prior to
loan/credit signing, in an aggregate amount equivalent to US$25 million imports with each contract below
US$5 million, would be awarded through international shopping (para 136).
132.  Subject to the prior approval of the Bank/IDA, commonly traded commodities may be procured
through organized international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank/IDA. Contacts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost below US$2



39
million each, for public sector, would be awarded through international shopping based on evaluation and
comparison of at least three quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two eligible countries.
133.  Commercial practices would be used for imports by private sector enterprises for contracts of
below US$2 million per contract. The use of commercial practices is justified, because, as determined
by the Bank, private sector enterprises are competitive in the commercial sector and strive to obtain
competitive prices for their imports.
134.  FYR Macedonia has inherited the former Yugoslav procurement laws which are not
comprehensive. Concerning the preparation of a procurement law for FYR Macedonia, the Bank/IDA
has an understanding with the Government that, because of its preoccupations with other more important
matters, it would initiate work on this law during the second half of 1994. Since a full Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) would be useful only after a procurement law has become
effective and its application is well underway, a simple assessment of the procurement procedures and
practices in FYR Macedonia would be planned for the second half of FY94.
135. Direct contracting (single source purchase) would be allowed only for proprietary items or where
the need for compatibility with existing items calls for standardization. The Borrower would be required
to provide acceptable justification to the Bank/IDA prior to procurement.
136. Procurement would be coordinated by the NBM under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
The NBM has established a loan/credit administration team, which would be responsible for procurement
and for disbursement matters. The Bank staff provided the loan/credit administration team the necessary
tiining in procurement.
137. Contracts below US$10,000 would not be eligible for Bank/IDA financing. This threshold is
consistent with satisfactory access by small and medium size importers, and the operation would remain
mnageable from an administrative point of view. Retroactive financing would be acceptable for up to
US$32 million for eligible imports paid four months prior to loan/credit signing.
Disbursements
138. Disbursements for contracts for goods exceeding US$2 million equivalent per contract would be
made on the basis of documented disbursement applications. For contracts below US$2 million
equivalent each, disburements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SoEs). These
SoEs would be based on the customs certificates and would indicate the name and address of the
importer, name and address of the supplier, description of goods, quantity and value, contract value,
country of origin and shipping date. These customs certificates and the underlying documents, including
the invoice/purchase order, evidence of payment, and evidence of shipment, would be collected and
maintinW  by the Customs Department and would be made available upon request to Bank supervision
missions for review and extenl auditors for audit. At the Borrower's discretion, SoEs may also be
based on the relevant information from importers in FYR Macedonia. Importers cooperating with the
NBM would be required to provide on the prescribed summary forms information on imports needed for
prparing witdrawal applications. These importers would be allowed to retain all supporting documents
in their files provided they agree to maintain them for one year after their audits, allow access to Bank
staff for reviewing purposes and to auditors.



40
Accouwts
139. The NBM would keep the accounts on the operations under this loan/credit, to comprise a record
of drawing on the loan/credit, and copies of the statements of these accounts. These records would be
updated monthly, and quarterly statements of transactions and balance, together with necessary
recommendations for disbursements and information on claims in process, would be forwarded to the
Bank/IDA.
140. The NBM would maintain records of all transactions under the loan/credit in accordance with
sound accounting practices. The NBM would also ensure that the importers maintain the supporting
documents, on the basis of which statements of expenditure would be prepared. All accounts would be
audited within six months of the end of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank/IDA. The accounts and auditors report would be submitted to the Bank/IDA within six months of
the end of the fiscal year. Assurances on the above arrangements for accounts and audit would be
obtained during negotiations.
Monitoing Arrangemnt
141. The Ministry of Finance and the NBM will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of
the program. The Bank/IDA will monitor the implementation of the reform program with the help of
the Policy Matrix attached to the Letter of Development Policy, through semi-annual reviews, as well
as in the context of preparation and supervision of other projects.
EnviWmntal Assessmawnt Requsremnts
142. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OS. 4.00,
Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "U" and does not require an
enviromnental assessment.
Beneflts and Risks
143. This loan/credit would support the key structural reforms in order to assist FYR Macedonia in
sustainable stabilization and restoration of growth. Without these reforms, there is a high probability that
output will contimne to decline or stagnate in the medium-term. The policies supported by this loan/credit
are exected to have a sufficiently large positive impact on growth to justify takig the risks associated
with a more aggressive reform effort. The immediate benefits of the loan/credit will be in the form of
facilitating FYR Macedonia's normalization with external creditors and, therefore, in increased access
to external finance, a necessary condition to avoid a slide into hyperinflation and an aggravation of
recession.
144. The risks are, however, very high. Lack of progress in the resolution of the regional tensions,
an element outside the control of the authorities, would prevent resumption of growth, leave PYR
Macedonia increasingly dependent on external aid flows, and perhaps even lead to renewed suspension
of payments to preferred creditors. Domestically, the consensus for reform may weaken as enterprise
restrucuring and privatization may lead to increases in unemployment. Increases in the World Bank



41
exposure after fte initial decline that will result from the resolution of the amars will therefore need to
be carefully monitored.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
145.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan/credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan/credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Afacbmnents
Washington D.C.
Jamuary 18, 1994



42
ANNEX A
LErER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY



43
GOVERNMENT
OF THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Letter of Developnt Policy
ECONOMIC RE CVERYL0ANICREDff
Skopje, Janay 4, 1994
Mr. Lewis Preston
President
Inteational Bank for
Reconstron and Development
1818 H Street, N"I
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.    This Letter of Development Policy outlines the program  of stabilization and
structural measures of the Government of the Itepublic of Macedonia. Our ecoomy has
experienced a number of shocks in recent years, worsened by the effects of the
isintegration of the Socialist Pederal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Government of the
Republic of Macedoi has taken numerous actoUs to adjust to these shocks, startig with
the currency reform and anti-inflationy program in April 1992. The next few paragraphs
detail the approach we are taking to achieve sustanble stabilizion and to restore growth
in the Macedonian economy, the specific actions we have recently adopted, as well as the
longer term measures we are planning. Tbese reforms are supported by the iational
community, which has committed to provide the necessary financing for the clearance of
arean  with the World Bank Group. We have resumed servicing of World Bank obligatons
in the fourth quarter of 1993, and will proceed to clear any remaning arrears as soon as the
amounts pledged by inteational donors are received.
2.    Since our country gained control over its political and economic affairs, we have
given the highest priority to economic reforms, for we realize that Republic of Macedonia
cannot afford to wait for the regional tensions to be resolved before confronting its
economic problems. Far-reaching measures have already been adopted in the last few
months, including (i) approval of the Privatization law by Parliament in June 1993, (ii)
privatzation  of socy-owd  apartments; (iii) approval of the banking law;  (iv)
strengthening of central ban  independence tbrough a progressive abolition of selective
credit; and (v) finalizon of work on a new tax system. In the past few weeks, we have
agreed in principle with  e International Monetary Fund on a macroeconomic program for
1994 to be supported by a drawing on the Stucural Transformation Facility (STF).



44
3.    We are nevertheless aware of the great difficulties we face. As you may know, our
current economic performance is severely constrained by the unfavorable external
environment since independence. The underlying problems of our economy, however,
originate from the policies and institutions inherited from the former Yugoslav federation.
Republic of Macedonia was for several years the recipient of large net transfers from the
federation and of exteral credits guaranteed by the federal Govemnment or the National
Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY). These transfers enabled Republic of Macedonia to run sizeable
current account deficits vis-a-vis the rest of the world and the former Yugoslav republics.
Republic of Macedonia was also more dependent than other republics on trade with the
other former Yugoslav republics, the former Soviet Union, and other CMEA countries.
4.    When we began our own independent economic  nagement, we lost all our external
financing. Our economy has had to re-adjust to that sudden loss at an unprecedented pace.
The currency reform and the initial stabilization measures prevented us from sliding furter
into hyperinion, but the cost has been dramatic, and output has declined considerably.
We also recognize, however, that the severity of the recession and the continued high level
and variability of inflation are exacerbated by the distordons perpetuated by the rema ning
institutions of the Yugoslav system. Enterprise self-management attributed ownership to
society at large, but entrusted workers with the responsibility of udlizing enterprise assets.
In the absence of the long-term concerns of a real owner, social ownership results in
excessive wage pressures, irrespective of the health of the firm. Lack of adjustment to
changing exteral conditions, as a result, aggravated the problem of labor redundancy in the
enterpnses and made them increasingly unable to meet their domestic and foreign financial
obligations. The banks, owned by the enterprises, have continued to lend to bankrupt
entities, and the resulting liquidity needs continubusly threaten loss of monetary control.
5.    On the fiscal side, the loss of external support was manifested in a decline of
revenues to 37 percent of GSP in 1991 and to 28 percent of GSP in 1992. Only the
accumulation  of substantial domestic and external arrears has prevented monetizaton of the
lare resulting deficits. RepubLic of Macedonia also inherited a large external debt, US$846
mfilion or the equivalent to 43 percent of GSP. A good portion of the debt was falling due,
and we were unable to continue its servicing. Finally, a large portion of the assets
corresponding to the foreign exchange deposits (amountng to over US$1 billion) vanished
overnight with the separation from Belgrade. The banks became unable to service the
deposits and the Government was forced to freeze them and relieve the banks from the
obligaton to pay interest (mterest is accrued but not paid; small amounts are made
avilable for socal puposes).
6.    We are now convinced that the difficulty in sustaning the initial success in reducing
inflation was due to problems both in the implementation and conception of the stabilization
program that need to be addressed in the next stage of reforms. First, real wages dropped
ignificanty after independence but rose again in mid-1992, due to the absence of restrictive
legislation and the failue of trade unions and the chamber of commerce (the representative
of workers and enterprise managers) to reach X collective agreement. Real wages have
insed contiusly since the second quarter in 1992 and bave almost recovered their
level prior to the stat of monetary independence. Second, the absence of wage restraint
and the shift to a floating exchange rate put the burden of providing a nominal anchor onto
monetary policy. But due to the contuing quasi-fiscal losses in the banks and enterprise



45
sectoes, it was impossible to mainta  the restrictdve monetary policy envisaged at the start
of the program. Fnall, although we have avoided monetization of the fiscal deficit (which
would have resulted in further hyperinflaionary pressures) through cash management of the
fical accounts, this has been accomplished at the cost of accumulating substantial intemal
and external arrears. We now need to take measures to reform the structure of revenues
and expenditre programs, so as to return public finances to sustanabiity, while providing
the necessary rources to confront the quasi-fiscal deficits in the enterprise and bank
sectors.
7.    On this basis, our economic program for next year is intentionally ambitious. Its
comerstone is a combination of a strong incomes policy, restrictive monetary policy and an
oveall fiscal adJustment targeted to reduce the deficit from 10 percent of GSP in 1993 to
less than 5 percent in 1994 (on an accrued basis). But in order to create the preconditions
for lasting stabiizadton and restoration of growth, we intend to implement in parallel a far-
raching program of strctural reforms. These reforms are difficult and complex; their
formulation and implementation will necessrly span over a period of years, rather than
months. Nevertheless, we believe that there is no other feasible altermative on hand at
present.
8.    Our program  thus comprises measures in four broad areas: (i) macroeconomic
stabilzadon and rowval of distorted incentives, to help move from  emergency to
reconstruction by ensung that adequate resources are found in the budget for the
absorption of the costs of the enterprise and financial sectors restructuring, including social
costs, by laying out the foundations fbr reform of revenues and expenditure progrms, and
by removing existing trade and price distortions; (ii) banking sector rehabilitation and
emvea privuAaton, rquired to tackle the complex problems inhented from the past (the
folgn  exchange deposits and the external debt), to arrest the flow of quasi-fiscal
expenditures that takes the form of defaulted credits, and to provide a sound framework for
the financing of economic activity; (ill) enerprise privatizatlon and restruturing; and (iv)
rmns to labor markets and to the social safety net, to facilitate enterpnse restructrg,
implement policies to deal with the already high ufiemployment, and foster cost-effectiveness
and  taiity  of social programs.
9.    We diswss these four areas in urn.
A. Macroeconomic Stabilization and Removal of Distorted Incentives
Mwroeconomic Program for 1994
10.   The Government's stabilizaton program for 1994 will be supported by the IMP
though a purchse of SDR24.8 million under the STF. In addition,  Macedonia's
Government intends to reach an understading with the IMF on a program that could be
supported by a Stand-by or other arrangement before the second half of 1994.
11.  The macroeconomic program takes a conservative but realistic view of the ime
required to decrease tension in the area and therefore allow Macedonia's renewed access
to tadional tading routes. It thus assumes a further contraction in GSP of some 8 percent
and targets an inflation rate of 70 percent during 1994 (123 percent on an annual average



46      a
basis). lhe resumption of voluntaiy external financing would allow a slight increase in the
deficit in our resorces to balance the current account deficit (to about 4 percent of GSP
in 1994), compared to the near balance in the two previous years and the deficits of arund
20 percent of GSP that could be financed under the Yugoslav Federation. The exchange
rate is expected to condnue to be determined by the market. The gross reserves of NBM
are targeted to increase to the equivalent of almost two months' worth of imports by year-
end.
Public Finances Reform
12.  We intend to give the highest priority to public finances reform. Macedonia's public
sectr is in a financial crisis due to the loss of the federation's transfers, the economic
recession, and the growth of entitlements under spending programs. To date, large accrul
deficits have not translated into loss of control over money creaton due to the ning of
large arrears on domestic and external creditors. However, we recognze that this stategy
is fagle, exposed to continual pressure, and fails to fully recognize the costs that will need
to be incurred in order to eliminate the large quasi-fiscal deficits now bidden in the bankig
sector.
13.   Our fiscal strategy for 1994 aims instead at consoli ting he control over the deficit
by attacking the underlying causes of disequilibum in expenditure and revenue progams.
Meaures to shore up revenues and reduce expenditures in the short run will be given the
higbest priority. We also rcognize, however, that provision of adequate fiscal support to the
stucurl reforms in the banking and enterprise  ectoNrs, as well as in the social safety net
is a key objective in stabilization. We have therefore made allowance, in the budget
approved by Parliament, for incrsd fiscal expenditr  amounting to about 4 percent of
OSP in support of the reforms. Mims fisc  support includes:
a     The cost of the assumption of the servicing of the foreign external debt with
mutl1ateral institutions (about 2 percent of OSP net of anean clearance), for
which we will also seek to recover payments from non-bankrupt enteprses;
b.    A coningency fund amounting to 2 percent of OSP, which is intended to be
used for the possible costs of the workout of commercial banks' bad
loan/credit portfolio and the possible excess social safety net expenditures
that could materialhze over and above what has already been budgeted for
unemployment and social assistance programs.
14.  In collaboration with the World Bank, we plan to review, at mid-year, the utization
of the contngency fund, and to reallocate its resources as necessay.
15.   We have also incorporated in the budget approved by Parliament measures to curtail
the growth of expenditre programs. Important actions regarding social expenditures ae
descrbed below: through them we will reduce the deficit in the pension fund and vill
provide for a more controlled growth in the number of benefciaries and their entitlements.
Other measures connected with the implementaton of the incomes policy discussed below
Will reduce the public sector wage bill, and restraint will be aplied in other expendtre
categories. We have in particular decided to reduce budgeted agricultural subsidies from



47
the equivalent of 2.9percent of GSP in 1993 to. 1.8percent of GSP. We calculate that these
measures will reduce expenditures by some 5 percent of OSP over their projected values in
the absence of policy acdon.
16.  In common with other transforming economies, Republic of Macedonia faces the task
of adapting the tax system to the market-oriented environment. To this effect, Parliament
has approved legisladon that will rationalize the existing tax system, and will yield higher
revenues by eliminating exemptions and extending tax bases. The core of our tax system will
be composed of a personal income tax, a profit tax, a payroll tax and a broad-based mnover
tax complemented by excises on alcohol, tobacco, luxury goods and petroleum derivatives.
The persona income tax will replace 9 forms of taxation of incomes previously in existence.
The profit tax will be unified and collected at a rate equal to the maximum personal income
tax rate. The exisdng 21 differentiated rates of the turnover tax will be reduced to 3, with
the basic rate set at 25 percent; most exemptions will be eliminated. We will also review
the possibility of imposing a small import surcharge without exemptions if a revenue
shortfal were to appear.
17. We recognize that success of the planned reforms will depend on progress on the tax
ministraton  front. To this effect, we have already begun a program of institutional
strengthening. By January 1, 1994, we will umfy in the tax department of the Ministry of
Finance a responsibility for tax collection, previously split between two agencies. We also
plan to introduce a program of reform and institutional strengthening, and will continue to
seek tchnical assistance from international orgadizations and donors.
18. The combination of the short-run revenue and expenditure measures will allow us
to reduce the deficit for 1994 to less than 5 percent of OSP (including accrued intreest on
frozen foreign exchange deposits), a figure compatible with the overall economic program,
and to avoid recourse to the domestic banking sector for financing. More imporandy, they
wil also provide the basis for sustainable public sector finances, and will allow the provision
of critical fiscal support to reforms in the difficult years to come.
19. We are also aware of the need to reform public institutions and attract and retain
competent personnel in the central government. To this effect, we plan to conduct, by June
30, 1994, a review of civil service organization and of government structure, with a view to
adapting it to the needs of a market economy.
Income Policies
20.   Real wages fell sharply in recent yean, and in early 1992 had declined to almost half
of their 1989 level. This drop in real wages was inevitable, but was obtained not through
the implementation of a conscious wage policy, but tather thogh a nominal wage-price
spiral outside the control of policy-makers. Indeed, ffe absence of any wage restrictions
since Febnuy 1993 has resulted in significaat real wage increases in the second half of the
year. By late 1993, real wages had regained their pre-stabization levels.
21. We are awaMre that tis increase in real wages is incompatible with restoration of
financial viability to the enterprise sector and with a reduction in inflation along dte lines
of our objectives. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia has



48
decided to implement an incomes policy that will be applicable to the non-private entetpre
sector and the general government. The policy will consist of the following elements:
a.    Monthly wage increases in the enterprise sector will be limited to 1.5
percentage point below the targeted inflation rate. Excess actual inton
over tageted inflation will be compensated at 50 percent.1
b.    Monthly wage increases for employees in the general government will be
limited to 2.5 percentage points below the targeted infladon rate. Excess
actual inflation over target inflation will be compensat   at 50 percent.
Monetary Policy
22.   As mentioned, regaining strict control dver growth of monetay aggregates is a
pority of the stabilization program. Monetary policy will thus play a crucial role in
achieving stabilization and financing economic transformation. We recognize that without
ntal reform in the banking system it will be impossible to maintain the necessaiy
policy stance. In addition to the measures detailed below, we intend to take immediate
steps to help the National Bank of Macedonia regain control over aggegates. During the
fourth quarter of 1993 and the fist quarter of 1994 we wil limit the issuan   of selective
credits to Denars 182 million and 140 million, respectively. These are prqjected to amount
to 36 and 24 percent of the projected issunce of reserve money in the respective periods.
As of March 31, 1994, we will completely diotinue any such rediscounting.
23.   Ihe NBM  has already begun to provide liquidity to the bankig system thro
compeitive auctons. This will become our main vehicle for control of liquidity in 1994.
However, given the critical state of the banlkng system, we will for the time being also
enforce credit ceilings on the extension of credit by the commercial banks, set with respect
to the overal expansion of credit and complemented by individual limibts for commercial
banks. On the bass of the economic program assumptions, we are thus projecting an
sicree in denar-denominated  liabilities of the banking setor of some 90 percent, which
would allow for an increase in credit to the productive sector of 35 percent in nominal  m
(excluding capitalization of intest and principal tue on outanding credits). The measur
oudined  below  to foster banking sector rehabilitaton  will provide an aproCpriate
enviromet for the channelling of these credit resources to viable enterpis.
Removal of Trade and Price Distortions
24.   We recognize the importance of minizing te distortions generated by the foreig
trade system. Republic of Macedonia is in fact in the process of discardng the complex
rading system inherited from the former Yugoslavia, wbich included several quotas. Our
E3xample: if tde targeted lon rate In any month Is xpercenae poln, the wage paid for the mn&
wi be Incsed by x-l.Spercntage poins over th pwvious moth (or nao if the targe Is ls th
1.5 percent). f te aid  laton rate (p) In te same nth is greate than x perceage poin
the wage in the follown month will be ionreased by an additional (px)0.S.



49
tariffs range from 0 to 25 percent. The large number of zero-rated items, as well as the
numerous exemptions for categories of items and importers have led to a very low average
tariff rate (4.7 percent at present). Wbile continuing our work for a revision of the tariff
code and an adaptation to European standards, we will consider, in the next few months,
the possibility of imposing a uniform surcharge in the 5-7 percent range, if fiscal
considerations were to warrant it. Regarding quantitative trade restrictions, the new system
that will be in force from January 1, 1994 will not incorporate quotas for exports (with the
exception of weapons, illegal drugs and other dangerous items), and will reduce the number
of goods subject to quantitative restrictions to about 4 percent of total imports (mostly on
agricultural goods and for limited periods of time in the year), from 16 percent under the
current system. We intend to review by June 30,1994 the system of quotas, with a view to
reducing it further and replacing it, where necessary, by equivalent tariffs. In the meantime,
we will change the administration of al remaining quotas to an auction system, whose
revenues will accrue to the budget.
25.   We have also made important progress in the reduction of the share of controlled
prices in all commodities. By end-1993, we intend to reduce further the range of controlled
prices, through the complete liberalizaion or the imposition of a notification requirement
for the prices of milk, municipal rents and services, water supply, central heating and motor
vehicle insurance. By end-1993, we will also increase in real terms the price of electricity
and oil derivadves, and we will follow, in the course of 1994, a policy aiming at furter
increases in real terms of electdcity prices, in order to reduce losses in the utility sector.
The share of controlled prices will be reduced, by these actions, to 14 percent.
B. Policies to Address the Banking Sector Crisis
26.   The banking sector fi Republic of Macedonia is in a state of crsis, the manifestations
of wbich are threefold. First, the banlk are saddled with vast foreign exchange deposits (in
excess of US$1 billion) now frozen, but whose corresponding assets have vanished. Second,
the banb have on their balance-sheets other foreign Liabilities (debt to commercial banks
as well as to IPIs, including the World Bank, and bilaterals) amounting to some US$600
million, which had been on-lent in foreign currency to finance projects of domestic public
enterprises; most of ftese projects are now in default. Finally, the banks also hold dear-
denominated assets, whose counterpart is their denar deposit base. A large portion of these
asset is also likely to be worthless, as it reflects the support to current operations given to
the enterprises as well as the selective allocation of credit currently in existence. As a result
of the combination of these Actors, the banking sector is technically insolvent, the level of
interest rates and of intermediation spreads may be driven up, and badly needed credit for
resumption of activity is syphoned off by the rolling over of, and the capitaization of interest
on, bad credits.
27.   The current crisis of the banking system results primarily from its ownership
structure, which leads banks to provide quasi-fiscal support to the enterprises that are also
their owners, and its lack of financial autonomy vis-a-vis the State. Our strategy therefore
consists of addressing up-front these two issues in the framework of a comprehensive, one-



50
time, solution which will also deal with the financial restrucring of troubled banb.
Following comprehive audits caried out according to nnational standard  (see below),
baks rwecized as insolvent, or insufficienty capitaized, after required provisioning, will
have their equity wiped out or reduced, thus achieving the objecdve of severiDng the formal
ownership link between banks and eaterprises. They will be taken over by a rehabilitatng
body established for the purpose of rehabilitating them during the privatization process (see
below). The fiancial restructuring will include a combination of the following meaure:
(i) a solution to the problem of foreig  exchange deposits that minimizs the cal on fiscal
resources; (ii) the assumption by the government of the foreign obligations of the bank
which cannot be serviced by the beneficiary enterprises, once an agreement on arrears and-
where appropriate-debt relief with the foreign creditors is reached; (iii) a program to
identify the existing losses on denar-denominated credits. In addidon, major improvements
will be achieved in the legal and supervisory framework for banking activities.
DIealing wih the Frozen Foeign Crrec  Deosits Problem
28.   The stock of foreign exchange deposits amounts to more than 60 percent of OSP.
The exterral reserves that were the counterpart 'f those deposits are no longer available.
In our curreat situation, we recognize that the burden imposed on the fiscal resources by
any solution that were to involve the issuance of public debt to back the foreign exchange
deposits woold be unbearable. We therefore intend to implement a straegy aiming at a
non-fcal solution to this problem, consisting mainly of the utilization of foreign exchange
certficates in the privatization process. We have already decreased the level of foreign
currency deposits by about US$150 million, by allowing depositors to use them in the
context of apartment privizaton. We have submited to Parliament a draft law on the
privatfzaton of commercial properties which includes a similar provision for the utilizadon
of foreig exchange deposits. In addition, the Law of Transformation of Enterprises with
Social Capital provides for the udlization of these deposits towards the purchase of
eerprises. We will elaborate, by March 31 1994, a plan to issue negotiable privatization
certificates, redeemable against frozen deposits, perhaps at a premium, and we will
encurage the formation of pooled resources as a vehicle to accelerate privatization. In
addition, we willprepare, during the course of 1994, further measur aimed to decrease the
attractiveness of holding of fozen foreign curency deposits, including a reduction in intert
raes. For well-specified distress cases, however, a limited allowance for cash withdrawal
will be provided for and included in the 1994 budget. Finally, we will consider the
possibility of convertig foreign acency deposits into shares of rehabilitated banks in the
context of their privatzaton.
AsumPion of Foreign Debt
29. We are in the process of studying the possibility of assuming direct responsibility for
a substatial portion of all foreig  debts (and guaantees) of problem banks and to allow
a writdown of the credits backd by these foreign liabilities (and guarantees). The extent
of the write-down would need to be based on the estimate of the market value of the
correonding credits, as assessed by the specia audits of the commercial bans that we
intend to carty out (see below). As we already indicated, the write-down of assets would



51
contribute to the vipe-out of existing equity. The Government would then assume the full
value of the banks' foreign liabilities vis-a-vis foreign creditors (including debts owed to IFs,
to the Paris Club, and to foreign commercial banks). The servicing cf the debts that are
assumed by the Government would be subject to the results of the agreements with
Individual creditors or groups of creditors to setde foreign debt arrears and maturties falling
due.
30. As a first measure in this respect, the government has now assumed responsibility for
the servicing of the World Bank debt even in the peniod prior to the resumption of regular
lending.
Dealg with Denar-Denominated Bad Assets
31.   A large pordon of denar-denominated assets of the banking system is probably a loss.
A precise assessmeat of the state of the denar portfolio will be part of the special audits of
the main commercial banks that we intend to carry out. We intend tD award, by end-
Februy   1994, contracts for performance  of these audits to one or several major
interational auditing fims. To this end, we are working with the World Bank to complete
the preparation of the terms of reference for these audits by December 31, 1993.
32.   The Government intends to relieve the banking system of the burden of supporing
enterprises in financial difficulty. To this effect, the task force discussed in paragrph 51
will begin, during the first quarter of 1994, a review of the 25 largest loss makers, and will
proceed to a speedy elaboration of restructring 'plans. As plans become operational, the
ban   system wil be allowed to extend further loans to the corresponding enterprses only
if (i) either the company has become creditworthy following a financial restrucuring, or (Hi)
the govemment is willing to extend a guarantee for the loan if the creditworthiness is
contingent upon fuure events, such as the end of the economic sanctions. Enterprises that
belong to the grup of the 25 largest loss-makers, but that do not fall under the two
categories just discussed, will not be allowed to borrow from the banking system, and will
only have access to budgetary funds to the extent that resurces be needed for social
reasons. We expect that, as a result of the implementation of the restructuing plam, one
half of the total increase in denar-denominated banking credit allowed under the monetay
program during the second quarter of 1994 will go to either enterprises classified as A or
B according to the 1992 audits of the Banls, or according to the 1993 audits (when
available) or to enterprs   for which a restrucg plan has been agreed with the task
re. The National Bank of Macedonia will issue the relevant reglation to this effect no
later than Mach 31,1994. We frther expect that six months after the financial statements
of the companies for 1993 are submitted to SOK, we will have completed the review of all
largest loss makers, and entirely relieved the baning system from their fiancing outside
the restucturing framework.
Objecdves and Vehcles of the Rebabilitation
33. The special audits will assess the financial condition of the major banks, based on the
debt servcing performance and the overall fimancial situation and prospects of the debtr



52
enterprises. If these audits confirm that some banks have a substantally negative net worth,
the Govemment and NBM  will immediately start the rehabiitation process. For this
purpose, we are planning to establish a Bank Rebabilitation Agency (BRA) that will be in
charge of carrying out the bank rehabilitation procedures already existing under the Banking
Law. In December 1993, the Parliament approved amendments to the Banking Law that
create such an agency, and provide for its governance. According to these amendments: (i)
the BRA will be administered by a General Manager, under the supervision of a supervisory
board composed of seven members; both the General Manager and the supervisory board
members are to be appointed by the Government, with two supervisory board members
being nominated by each the Ministry of Finance and NBM; and (ii) the Government must
approve the statutes of the BRA within one month of enactment of the amendments. In
order to ensure the full involvement of, and coordination between, the banking and the
fiscal authorities, we will ensure that the Ministry of Finance's and the NBM's nominees are
high-level officials of the Government and the National Bank of Macedonia, respectively.
Appropriate staffing of the agency will be given a high priority, and we will elaborate, by
end-Febnrary 1994, a plan for the needed technical assistance.
34.   Several strategic aspects of the rehabilitation  process and the strategy for
privatization remain to be worked out in the next few months, and depend to a large extent
on an assessment of the actual extent of the bad loan problem. We already envisage,
however, to apply the following principles: (i) as authorized by the rehabilitation procedures
of the Banking Law, the BRA will be in charge of rehabilitating troubled banks, will take
over ownership and appoint a new board of independent directors, that would prepare the
banks' fmancial and operational restructuing with a view to their privatization; (ii) the
agency will not in priciple undertake the task of loan coliection, as that could slow loan
collection and enterprise restructring, and weaken the potential links between enterprise
and bank restctuCring.
35. We intend to work together with the World Bank in the formulation of the details
of the strategy, and aim to present a draft of the rehabilitation program for review to the
Bank by June 30, 1994.
Improvinm the Legal and Supervisorv FPrmework
36.  The measures just discussed are intended to deal with the problems of the past.
Substantial improvement to the regulatory and superisory frameworks is required in
addition, in order to provide an appropriat fework for future operations of old and new
ban. The legal framework of the banking system has indeed already been improved and
additonal legislaton is expected to be introduced before the end of the year. These legl
improvements pave the way for the long term development of the sector. Nevertheless,
additional meaures need to be designed and implemented.
37.  We will continue to enforce our temporary policy of restrictionson the ficensing of new
banks, with a qualified excepdon for small savings institutions. Tle recent and rapid
increase in the number of banks and the fraglity of the economic and financial environment
call for extra caution in the licensing of new banks. We will temporarily limit licensing to
projects proposed by first grade investors with immediate cash resources sufficient to meet



53
the minimuni capital requiement set in the new bankng law. They should also present
adeqate business plas, be nmaaed by experienced professionals, and have by-laws
providing for the elimination of any role for shareholders having a net exposure vis-a-vis the
banks in the ban' assemblies and boards.
38.   NBM intends to embark on a strengdmenn&of regulaton and superision of the bantdng
sector. This strengthening is a long-term process requiring the progressive build-up of
experience gained by daily exposure to a wide range of situations. Besides efforts to rapidly
establish an adequate supervisory structure (comprising both on- and off-site supervision
capabilities), the NBM intends to advance work for the rapid implementation of the three
followng steps:
(i)         Enhancement of the existing loan/credit classification and
provisioning requirements to accepted international standards
(including assessment of the overall financial condition and
prospects of the debtor enterprises, as per special audits),
together with their introduction by June 30, 1994;
0ii)        Phasing-in of the objectives set by the new  banking law
regarding the ceilings of direct or connected credits to
shareholders and of large risk exposure relative to the bank'
capital.
fiii)       Reinforcement of the role that is played, and should contimne
to be played by i,ntemational auditing  firms throgh an
enhancement of requested auditing standards. These should
cover a detailed analysis of the loan/credit portfolio and of key
operational procedures such as credit policy and risk
agement,  as well as treasury  and  foreign exchange
operations.
C. Policies to Address the Enterprise Sector Crisis
39.   We are well aware that a major requirement for successful economic stabilizaton is
a com      ive  reform  of the enterprise sector, leading rapidly to a clearly defined
ownership and effective governance of enterprises. To that end, we are filly committed to
move swiftly on several fronts: (i) privazation; (ii) reform of public enterprises, and; (iii)
enterprise rstiining. In this context, it is imperative to deal urgently, with the problem
of the loss-making enterpises. Simultaneosly, we are woridng on improving the legislative
famework for private sect development.
40.   The ownersip stmcture in socially-owned and mixed entprises has been a main
caue of Macedonia's economic difficulties. With socal ownership as it was devised in
frmer Yugoslavia, there bas been no effective advocate for capital and no long-term
stuegic view which such advocacy normally provides. In an attempt to address these flaws,



54
fmer Yugoslavia introduced legislation in 1990 enabling the privatization of social capital
in the enterprises tuwgh intenal sares, issued to workers and managers. As a reslt,
some 400 Macedonian enterprises were fully or patially privatized. The implementation
of privaization under this law, however, was not well regulated and we believe that abuses
were made by the participants, including the non-payment of mandatoty taxes on wages
which were paid in the form of intrmal shares.
41.  Following independence, in an effort to resume and expand privatization the
Government formulated a new law, the ,Law for Transformadon of Enterprises with Social
Capital,,, which was adopted by the Parliament on June 14, 1993. This law provides for a
multi-track approach relying exclusively on standard methods of privatization whereby
entwrprises are privadzed one by one. Enterprises providing public services and natural
monopoly will not be privatized under this law. We intend to ensure full privaizaton of
approximately 1,468 enterprises- 100 large, 299 medium, and 1069 small- over the next five
years. Tbis includes those enterp     party privazed under the old Federal law.
Reform and pnrvation of banks and other financial institutions will be regulated under
separate legislation, since banks are not socially-owned.
42.   JThe Agency of the Republic of Macedonia for the Transformation of Enterprises
with Social Capital, (the Privatization Agency) is the instittion responsible for
implementation of the privatizadon progmm. This autonomous agency will be staffed with
carefully selected professionals. The Privatizton Agency's decisions on privadzation plans
of enteprises are subject to final approval of the Commission of the Government for
Transformation of Enterpris  with Social Capital.
43.  Enterprie  must submit their pnvatzation plan within one year for small-and
medium enterprises, and within two years for large enterprises. After this deadline
transformation of enterptises will be initiated by the Privatization Agency. The Law allows
cidzens to use frozen foreign exchange deposits in banks to pay for the purchase of share
of companies. The Law also requires tat enterprie  privatized under the old Federal Law
be reviewed in order to verify    their privaizaon process complied with the reguladons
which governed the process. In order to shorten the period of uncetinty that this may
cause for this grop of enterprises, we itend to ensure completion of the review by
December 31, 1994. In addition, by that date we also expet to rtceive applications for
transformation from another 450 entprises.
44.  We recognize that promotion of a competitive market economy through rapid
privatidzaton and improved governance of enterprises is more important than immediate
revenue to the Government from the sale of these entetprise. To sustain the pace of
privadzation, it is essential that the Privatization Agency act in a speedy manner on the
enterprises' applications for transformaon, and stilmulatethe overall privatization process
through a proactive approach. We have prepared, therefore, a detaied implemion plaa
for the Piatizati  Agency including adeqa   financing, staffng. technical assisne,
organization and procedures, and use of external assistance. We intend to closely monitor
the progress of ptivatization, and to take prompt action to modify the argents, and if
necessary the legiston to ensure rapid transfer of enprises to private hands. If it
Wpears, by December 31, 1994, that privatzaion tough individual transactions using
stndard methods does not meet our expectations, we will, cany out a full review of the



55
privatization process, which will inter alia examine the possibiity of introducing additonal
methods for privadtzaion.
45.   To complete the legal framework for privatization, we are finalizing the legilation
on compensation of former owners of nationalized property. A guiding principle will be to
compensate the previous owners in cash or shares where restitution in kind will impede the
rapid implementaton of privatization.
Public  Mntervrise Reform
46. Enterprises in public utilities, public works, social services, as well as in housing, land
and forestry management will initially remain in the State Sector. Natural monopolies will
also generally not be included in the privatization program govemed by the present law.
We are presently preparing draft laws on public enterprises (the ,Acton Public Enterprises,
and the ,LawGoverMing the Performance of Activities of Public Interest,) which will govern
enterprse  providing public services, State-owned as well as pnvately owned. These laws
are expected to provide the possibility of transforming public enterprinses into companies
under the commercial code, avoiding complex admistrative procedures and without
'Parlamentary approval. This will allow easy entry of much needed local and foreign private
investors in these capital inteive sectors. The draft ,Act on Public Entepris, will be
ready by end- ebrnuy 1994, and will be transmited to the Bank for review and comments.
Te draft ,Law Governing the Performance of Activities of Public Interest, is expeed to
be ready by mid-1994 and wiU also be transmitted to the Bank for review.
47.  For the sta-owned enterprises in public services, we intend to reform and improve
the system of governance and to separate the Government's ownership ftmction from its
policy and regulatory roles. We will pay particular attention to the principles governing the
opeation of the State-owned companies and the tquirements relatig to the accoutability
of these companies.
48.   We plan to establish independent regulatory systems for public utlities and serices,
in order to create an envment conducive to private sector entey and development, t
preven monopListc behavior and protect public interesL
Etprise Restructuing
49.   Already handicapped  by the problem  of unclear ownership and inadequ
governance under social ownersip, Macedonian enterpris  have also been hard-hit by
extenal fac, such as loss of maor markets and severance of links with traditional
suppliers following the collapse of the CMEA; dissolution of the Yugoslav federation; and
more recently, difficulties caused by the effective closure of traditional North-South
transport routes for access to intermaonal markets.  In addition, some Macedonian
industres- particularly heavy industries developed under the former Yugoslav integrated
approach to industrialization have inherited a structure which is not adated to a maret
economy. As a result, Macedonn enterpries, are experiencing growing losses estimated
to exceed 10 percent of GSP. This situation js unsustainale and requirs  mme



56
corrective action, and we inteand to ensure a substantial reduction of these losses durilg
1994.
50.   In line with our strategy of moving towards a market economy, we believe that
generally, restructuring of enterprises should be initiated by their new private owners.
Nevertheless, it is inevitable that as the privatization progresses, certain enterprises-even
if they are not bankrupt--will be so financially distressed that they will not be attractive for
pnvate investors. In other ca, the enterprises may be too large and require too much
private capital to be purchased under the existing privatization legislation. In addition, a
substantial number of the large loss-making enterprises are those expected to remain, at
least for the medium-term, in the state hands. We will adopt a comprehensive approach to
stem their losses and initiate and/or support their restructuring. This approach will include,
inter alia, liquidation of non-viable enterprises and units of enterprises. This is essential to
reduce the cost to the economy of supporting non-viable enterpses and to promote growth
by transferring productive assets of non-viable enteprises to companies which can better use
them for productive purposes. 
51. For small enterprises which cannot be privatized, liquidation and auction of assets
will be automatic. For medium-sized enterprises, a creditor-led restrucuring may be the
best approach, as envisaged under the privatzation law. The underlying principle will be
to separate and liquidate non-viable parts as quickly as possible, and make a second attempt
to privatize the potendally viable pieces. The problem is more difficult for large-scale
enterprises; their restructunng can have complex consequences; socdal, regional and others.
We believe that in those cases, enterprise-by-enterprise analysis and preparation of action
plans with the active participation of the Government, will be required. To this effect, we
have established a task force to coordinate and facilitate these activities, and designate an
executing agency responsible for their implementaton. Budgetaiy support will be limited,
generally  sricted to exceptional cases, and will be provided under tansprt procedur.
52. The guiding principle for restructuring will be the assessment of the viability of
enterprises or parts of them, takdng into account the specific circumstances afecting the
distressed entexprises. First, for public sector enterpises depending on regulated tarfs, we
will review their sitation and formulate a transparent prie and incentives structure by June
30, 1994, to enable these enterprises to become profitable while maintaining financial
discipline. Our first step in this respect consists. of the price increases and liberalizaon
discussed in para.25. Second, those enteprises which could be profitable if traditiona
internatonal transport links were restored, may need exceptional temet until re-
establishment of a normal environment. Third, the reaining enterprises will be dealt with
in two separate groups; on the one hand those which cover or could cover their varable
costs, and may therefore warrant financial and other defenive retuctring, and on fte
other hand, those which have no pospect to cover their variable costs and shold underg
liquidation.
53.   A credible threat of bankuptcy  is an essential driving force for enterpise
restrucuring. We will therefore enhance the capabilit of the judicial system to effectively
and swifty deal with the expected increase in the number of bankruptcy cases. In addiion,
enterprises should have the possibility of shedding redundant labor in an orderly manner



57
and at reasonable costs. We will develop a comprehensive program to facilitate labor
shedding and increase labor mobility, as discussed in section D of this letter.
Legislative Framework for Private Sector Development
54.   The rapid increase in private sector activity during 1991-1992 indicates that private
entrepreneurs enjoy a reasonably favorable legislative and regulatory environment in
Macedonia.  Despite this significant progress to date, additional legal reforms and
strengthening of the regulatory framework could furither improve the environment for
private enterprise development.
55.   Within this context, in addition to the privatization law, the Parliament has recetly
adopted laws on: securities; foreign investments, foreign axchange activities, external credit
relations, foreign trade, customs, concessions, banks and saving institutions, aounting,
financial activities and etc. We have submitted for approval by Parliament a draft
Commercial Code and new labor legislation. In addition, we ame currently preparing new
legisladon covering the establishment of a proper legal framework for secured transactions
including registration of real estate and mortgages; a new bankruptcy law, law on services
and tourism, law on expropriation, law on trade, law on customs tariffs and etc. We are also
reviewing the overall framework for foreign investment to identify measures needed to
develop foreign investment flows.
D. Policies to Reform the Labor Market and Adjust the Social Safety Net
Labor Market Poliies and Programs
56. To facilitate and underpin the transformation of the economy, in particular to enable
the privadzation and restructuing of socially owned enterprises, we will make changes in
the legislative and policy framework of the labor market. Our goal is to allow labor to move
freely out of secto  and enterprs  where workers are surplus to productive need, and into
sectors and enterprises where output is growing, if necessary spending periods in
unemployment. In order to achieve this goal, the legisladon governing the rules and
regulatons by which labor can be shed, the rights and entitlements of surplus workers at the
time of dismissal, and the provisions for the unemployed will be reviewed and reformed.
57.   Estimates suggest that over-manning in the social sectors is in the order of 30 percent
of employment Although registered unemploymet now stands at about 175,000, about. 22
percent of the labor force, the numbers of workers who have become unemployed throgh
layoffs are relatively few - less than 20,000. This in part reflects the resistance to layoffs
coming from workers who threaten as well as carny out strikes, but it is also a function of
the prolonged procedues and the high costs associatd with laying off workers. Our
covernment has provided financial assistance to enrpries  to assist with the costs of laying
off workers -to belp meet the costs of retraining and providing 24 months' pay in a lump



58
sam. However, the budget for 1993 has been sufficient to meet the costs of only 3,900
workers, 9,000 fewer than the number requested by enterprises.
58.  In the course of 1994 we expect to submit for final parliamentary approval a new
Labor Code and Employment Act. These laws will establish the principles on which labor
relatons and employment policies are founded. They draw on the experience of OECD and
Central and Eastem European country experiences, and seek to strike a balance between,
an the one hand, protecting the interests of workers and, on the other hand, the ability of
employers to adjust their work-forces to changing economic circumstances. These laws will
be accompanied as necessary by reguladons that will determine the precise details and
arrangements. In addition, the new laws on Participation in Management and Public
Eterprises will be important in definmg the context in which labor relations and
employment policies operate.
59. We recognize that the draft Law on Labor Relations that was approved by the
Govemment in July 1993 and is cuently in parliamentary proceedings contains clauses that
conine to provide workers with considerable protection from layoffs, and impose heavy
costs on employers who attempt to reduce their work-force. We also recognize that the
current labor code encouages enterprises to avoid any attempt at restruchting, finding it
convenient to go into bankuptcy wbich allows workers to be laid off at no cost to the
entrrise. We bave therefore revised the draft law on Labor Relations to make it more
compatible with the worldngs of a market economy, and rsubmitted it to Pariament. In
particular, Articles 140 to 153 in the draft Law on Labor Relations, dated July 1993, have
been replaced with ardeles that contain the following provisions:
a.   the employer has the right to determine when to terminate a labor
reationship;
b.    at such tme he should inform the workers, the Trade Union, and the local
Employment Office of the intention to layoff worers;
C.    workers affectd by the layoff should be given minimum 6 months notice of
the intended temation  of the labor relationip;
d.   workers to be laid-off will receive as a lump-sum payment a termination grant
of 1 months' wages for every 2 years of employment up to a maximum of 12
months wages;
e.    payment of the termination grant is the responsibility of the employer.
Tbe use to which the termination grant can be put will o longer be tied to selng up a
busins. Provision for self-employment and smal business development will be provided
for elsewhere. Moreover, as discussed below, workers laid off in this way will be entitled to
unemployment compensation  if they are unable to find another job or become self-
employed, and they will be eligible to pardcipate in active labor market programs.
6D.  We fully recognize the importnce of an income support system for workers who lose
their jobs. The Employment Fund provides the unemployed with unemployment



59
compeadon, training reimbursement for moving expenses connected with reemployment,
and health and old-age insurance. Under present arrangements, workers from bankrupt and
liquidated enterprises are eligible for 30 months' unemployment compensation, and those
becoming ntechnologically. unemployed following a period of Xpaid vacation. are eligible for
unemployment compensation that varies in length from 3 months to 36 months dependmg
on previous work history. All unemployment compensation is paid at 50 percent of the past
3 months average wage, with a floor of 80 percent of the minimum wage and no ceilng.
During 1993 the Unemployment Fund has been in deficit, and a year-end deficit of
Dn.200m. is expected. Because of the deficit unemployment compensation payments are
paid months in arrears.
61.   The draft Employment law proposes some changes to this scheme. The most
significant changes are the reduction in the duration of benefit for all categories of
unemployed to maximum 24 months, and the introduction of a benefit ceiling equal to twice
the minimum wage. Together with an increase in the payroll contribution to 1.5 percent of
gross wages, which will come into force from January 1st, 1994, these expenditure reduction
meas should be sufficient to bring the Employment Fund into financi balance in 1994
so long as the nmber of unemployed eligible for benefit does not exceed 17,500. It is
esdmated that 3,800 workers will lose their jobs in 1994 as a result of privatizations, and
there will be other employment losses due to output decline and bankruptcies. The
mgnitude of thesw is unknown. Should the total number of unemployed eligible for
compensation exceed 17,500, additional measures to reduce expenditures will be taken in
the course of 1994 -- e.g. reducing the period of benefit entitlement to 18 months. In
anticipation of growing numbers of unemployed entidtled to unemployment compensation in
1995, the duration of benefit entidement will be reduced to maximum one year starting
January 1st, 1995. Every effort will be made to avoid raising the payroll tax beyond 1.5
percent of gross wages because of the strong employment disincentive effects, and if
absolutely necessary the budget will provide some additional revenue to the Employment
Fund.
62. Present arrangements provide for training and stimulation of job creation via the
payment of 24 months' wages, available for technologically redundant workers, and the
capitalization of unemployment compensation and training for other categories of
unemployed. In 1993, Dn. 123 million was allocated to the former category of unemployed.
The latter program was not implemented because of lack of fands and the requirement that
training must be tied to a job vacancy. The amendments to the Labor Code discussed above
will eliminate the employers' obligation to provide retraining or 24 wages (for self-
employment) to redundant workers. We propose, however, to spend the Dn. 300 million,
earmarked to assist with these programs in the 1994 budget, to allow applications to this
scheme prior to November 15, 1994 to be processed. This will provide for about 6,000
workers. In order to pave the way for the future, by June 30, 1994 we will finalize a study
of active labor market programs that have been tried in other countries, in particular OECD
countries and Central and Eastern Europe. On the basis of that study, we hope to introduce
in the second half of 1994 active labor market programs, together with the establishment
of a monitoring and evaluation system which will evaluate the cost effectiveness of the
different interventions. These will be funded from the contingency fund discussed in para.
13(b). In particular, we will consider introducing a new scheme to stimulate self-
employment. Such a scheme could provide capitalization of unemployment compensation



60
together with counselling and training and, possibly, assistance in meeting investment costs.
Within the overall constmaint of the budget, additional funds will also be allocated to
strengthen the institutional capacity of employment offices, whose clients will be more
numerous and whose needs will be more diverse. Finally, we will make provision in the
Employment Act for the operation of private employment offices.
63.   The reforms discussed above are very sensitive, and represent a major departure from
current practice. Workers will no longer be guaranteed viral job security for the duration
of their working lives, and many will experience prolonged periods of unemployment before
retumrning to work. We feel it will be necessary to launch a publicity campaign to educate the
public about the need for restructuring, to explain why lay-offs are necessary, and inform
them about the arrangements that will be made for people losing their jobs, and the
programs available to help them.
.Social Assistance
64.   There are a number of cash social assistance programs, which have either a pre-
determined  target group (e.g. assistance for foster parents and those caring for the
elderly/disabled, refugees), or are income contingent (e.g. cash assistance program for
handicapped, singles parents, and the elderly who are not entitled to a pension, and social
assistance for those falling below minimum  subsistence). It is our opinion that these
programs represent a comprehensive cash social assistance program.
65. The program for the protection of socially endangered populations, the most
important social assistance program, was introuced in May 1992 and goes a long way to
provide cash tansfers to those most in need. The program, which is financed out of general
revenues, is designed to help families whose income falls below a critical minimum, be they
wage earners, persons whose unemployment compensation has expired, pensioners or any
other category. The objective of the payment, which is made on a per person basis up to
a maximum of S persons, is to raise total family income to the social protective level which
is defined as a propordon of the national average wage. When the program was introduced
in May 1992 6,000 families became eligible for social welfare. In May 1993 the number
stood at 24,000 families (80,000 people) and it is expected tD reach 35,000 families (about
6 percent of the population) by the end of 1993.
66. After 18 months of operation we believe that this program is basically sound but it
is in need of some adjustments. On the assessment side, changes are needed to ensure that
all income, including income from assets, is taken ito consideration. On the expenditure
side, we are finding that one and two person households need a larger per capita allocation
than 4 and 5 member households since they are faced with similar fixed expenditures -
housing, heating etc.. Changes to the regulations to deal with these problems have already
been approved.
67.  In 1994 we are anticipating a further increase in the number of families needing
social assistance -- as many as 50,000. This will come about following anticipated declines
in real wages and pensions, in growing numbers of unemployed, and increases in the prices



61
of utilities and other essential goods and services. We have budgeted Dn.970 million for this
program in 1994.
68.   Foreign exchange deposits have been accumulated by families in the belief that in
times of need they will have reserves to draw upon. The present circumstances that require
the govenmment to tightly control the use of those assets impose hardship on many families.
It is government policy to allow families in need access to otherwise frozen foreign exchange
deposits. On the basis of a minimum needs consumption basket, (which currently amounts
to 1.2 times the average wage) a family can be allowed to use a predetermined sum of their
foreign exchange deposits for certain situations -- e.g. poverty, illness. We intend to continue
with this program, and have budgeted Dn. 1 billion in the 1994 budget.
69.   Bread is part of the staple diet of Macedonians, and carries a subsidy worth Dn.150
million in 1993. Since the subsidy enters the system at the point of the bakery, it is applied
to a particular type of bread that is consumed by a wide variety of consumers. The
government is aware of the budget cost of the subsidy and that the subsidy benefits income
groups other than those most in need. For these reasons our Government has decided to
abolish this general subsidy and to apply a targeted subsidy at families most in need.
Beginning in January 1994, the bread subsidy will be administered through social welfare
offices and willprovide recipients of social assistance with the means to buy bread. The cost
to the budget is estimated at Dn.584 million for 1994 -- about 0.4 percent of GSP. The
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare will monitor the impact of this program as an integral
element of the social safety net, and will prepare an evaluation of it after one year of
operation.
Reform of the Pension System
70.    Pension expenditues are the largest and the fastest growing component of social
safety net outlays. Pensions constitute 24 percent of total government expenditures and are
expected to increase from 8.3 percent in 1992 to 13.4 percent of GSP in 1993. The
government estmates that pension outlays could increase to nearly 14 percent of GSP in
1994. The sharp increase between 1991 and 1992 is largely attributable to the dramatic
incase in new pensioners over these two years. The uncertainty in the economic climate
and the expectation that pension benefits might decline induced many individuals to opt for
early retirement. The government retirement program for technically redundant workers
within 5 years of retirement is attributable to the unsustainable benefit struce of the
existing system. Indeed, average pension benefits reached 81 percent of average wages in
September of this year. The increase in pension obligaions has forced us to accumulate
arears and deficits in the pension fand. As of November 1993 pension payments have been
delayed by 2.5 months and we estimate that pension fimd deficits, 1.4 percent of GSP in
1992, could reach an unsusinable level of 5.3 piercent of GSP by the end of 1993.
71.   Our inability to meet fiancial obligations to pensioners prompted us to initiate a
reform in the pension system earlier this year. The focus of our reform efforts is the
introduction of measures to reduce pension expenditures by lowenng benefits and tightening
the eligibility criteria of the pension system. We have presented to Parliament legislation
incorporaing the following measures:



62
(i)    Abolition of early retirement schemes including early retirement privileges for
military and police.
(ii)   bcrease of the retirement age for individuals with 20 insurance periods to 60
years for women and 63 years for men by 1/2 year every year commencing
January 1994.
(ii) Increase of the retirement age for women with 15 insurance periods to 63
years by 1/2 year every year comn,encing January 1994.
(iv)   Change in the assessment period of best ten consecutive years of work to the
entire working life of an individual for new pensioners. The assessment
period for military and police pensions will be increased from the best one
year to the 10 best consecutive years.
(v)   Reduction in the target replacement rate from 85 percent to 80 percent of the
pension base.
(vi)  Increase in the payroll tax rate from 18 percent to 20 percent of gross wages.
(vii)  Continue a restricdve indexation policy that ties pension growth to wages in
the non-economic sector. The restrictve indexation policy has already forced
average pensions to fall to 79 percent of average wages. Indeed this ratio may
be lower if only actual payments to pensioners are included in the definition
of total pension outlays.
72.   As a result of the  changes we expect to reduce pension fund deficits to 2.9 percent
of GSP in 1994. We also expect average pensions to fall to 70 percent of average wage.
In the event that these meares are not sufficient to eliminate pension find deficits we will
follow further restrictive indexation policies to meet our fiscal targets in order to avoid any
fter increase in payroll tax rates. Further increasing payroll tax rates is likely to cause
labor market distortions and is likely to increase tax avoidance from enterprises that are
ready  cing considerable financial difficulties.
73.   During 1994 we will continue our efforts to reform the pension system by conductng
a study of the enire pension system. The study will focus on introducing additional
measures that will increase efficiency, equity and improve the actuarial financing of the
pension find. Por example, these measures might include a further reduction in the target
replacement rate to 75 percent, a removal of all 'non contribution' related expenditure from
the pension fund to the generl budget, a reduction in the eligibility conditions for survivor
pensions, a reduction in the replacement rates of disability pensioners, a removal of
supplementary pension allowances for pensioners falling below the minimum pension, an
equal distribution of the payroll tax between employers and employees in order to make
employee contibutions to the fund transparent.    The study will also evaluate an
introduction of actarially fair early retirement schemes that would allow us to ease the
transition for old age workers displaced by enterprise restructuring and improve labor
market efficiency. We will submit the measres recommended by the study to Parliament
in June 1994.



63
74.   The reform of the existing pension system is consistent with our long term strategy
to limit the role of the government in tbie provision of savings and insurance and promote
private savings and insurance schemes. In order to meet this objective we propose to
develop legislation for the regulation of private fully funded pension schemes as a part of
financial sector development. These schemes would fully link individual contribudons to
expected benefit streams and allow individuals to save for old age, insure against disability
and provide for their survivors commensurate with lifetime income stream.
75.   Based on the policies and actions described in this Letter and in the accompanying
matrix, we would like to request World Bank support for our reform program through an
Economic Recovery Loan/Credit in the amount of US$80 million equivalent.
Yours sincerely,
Borko Stanoevski                           Dievdet HaJrini
Governor of the                            Minist of      ce
National Bank of the
Repu       Macedonia



64
ANNEX B
ECONOMIC RECOVERY LOAN/CREDIT POLICY MATRIX



65
FYR Macedonia: EconOmic Recovery Loan/Credit Policy Matrix
Sustainable Stabilization
Objectve                   Government Policy Measures/Actions (by Board Presentation)
Stabilize economy.         o Approval by Parliament of a 1994 budget consistent with overall
macroeconomic objectives.
Initiate a set of fiscal   * Provision in the 1994 budget approved by Parliament of transparent fiscal
refoms to ensure successful   support to structural reforms of about 4 percent of GSP: (i) bank
implementation of structural  restructuring (servicing of banks extemal debt obligations assumed by the
reforms and to support     state and costs associated to the bank restructuring program); and (ii)
private sector development.   targeted assistance to finance closure and restructuring costs of enterprises
under the privatization program and/or loss makers (such as retraining of
laid-off workers, increased unemployment benefits and social assistance
outlays, costs of closing down operations and environmental clean-up).
The fiscal support will be in the form of a contingent budget reserve to be
used explicitly for bank rehabilitation and enterprise restructuring. Use and
possible reallocation of these funds will be reviewed at mid-year.
* Reduction of share of quotas in total imports classification positions from
16 to 4 percent. Agreement on a plan of action for the implementation of
an auction system for remaining quotas.
l  Further liberalization of prices (milk, water supply, central heating, car
l_________________  insurance, municipal rents).
Implement income policies to  * Approval of legislation by Parliament to set ceilings on wage increase in
cut off price-wage spiral.  socially-owned enterprises and in the general government, with only partial
indexation of the cost of living.
Implement monetary policy    * Approval by Parliament of appropriate legislation to eliminate the
consistent with stabilization    granting of new selective credits as of March 31, 1994.
and improve monetary
management.
Finandal Sector Reform
Objective                  Government Policy Measures/Actions (by Board Presentation)
Measures to restore financial  * Submission to Parliament of Law on Commercial Properties allowing the
and operational soundness of  use of frozen foreign exchange deposits for purchase of commercial
banking system.            properties.
* Finalization of terms of reference for extended audits of the entire
portfolio of four commercial banks by international auditing firms.
*Assumption of portions of foreign liabilities of banks corresponding to
credits in foreign currency in default for which agreements exist as to
arrears clearance.
* Submission to Parliament of amendment to Law on Banks and Savings
Institutions establishing the agency responsible for the commercial banks
rehabilitation process.



66
Enterpre Sector Reform
Objective                  Goverment Polcy Measures/Actions (by Board Presentation)
Rapid implementation of    o Issuance of the organization and work program for the Privatization
Enterprise Reform to ensure   Agency, including budgetary allocation, financing plan and plan of technical
adjustment in enterprises.  assistance for 1994.
* Submission to Parliament of the Commercial Code.
* Establishment of task force to formulate and execute strategy with regard
to large loss-makers, with the commitment to ensure reduction of losses of
enterprises whose prices are controlled by the state.
o Increases in real terms of prices of district heating, electricity and oil
derivatives; announcement of policy to liberalize the first and to set prices
for the others that will allow financial viability of the relevant enterprises.
Labor Markets and Socil Safety Net Reforms
Objectives                 Government Polcy Masres/Actions (by Board Presentation)
Increase labor mobility.   * Presentation to Parliament of amendments to Labor Relations and
Employment laws including: (i) removal of restrictions on labor
redundancies following notice and payment of a termination grant; (ii)
reduction of financial obligations of employers with respect to severance pay
for layoffs; (iii) separate provision of payroll-funded unemployment
compensation for all laid-off workers subject to benefit ceilings and for
limited duration; (iv) provision of measures to encourage self-employment
and re-employment.
Better Targeting of Social    * Establishment of a targeted bread subsidy scheme replacing existing
Assistance                 general subsidy on price.
Reduce unsustainable       @ Presentation of Pension Law reform to Parliament, incorporating (i) Aboli-
pension benefits and tighten  shment of early retirement schemes including early retirement privileges for
entitlements.              military and police; (ii) Increase in the retirement age for individuals with
20 insurance periods to 60 years for women and 63 years for men by 1/2
year every year starting January 1994; (iii) increase in the retirement age
for women with 15 insurance periods from 60 years to 63 years by 112 year
every year statung January 1994; (iv) change in the assessment period of the
best ten consecutive years of work to the entire working life of an individual
for new pensioners; (v) increase in the assessment period for military and
police pensions from the best one year to the 10 best consecutive years; (vi)
reduction in the target replacement rate from 85 percent to 80 percent of
the pension base; (vii) increase in the payroll tax rate from 18 percent to 20
percent of gross wage; and (viii) continued restrictive indexation policy that
ties pension growth to wages in the non-economic sector.



67
ANNEX C
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS



68
Table 1: Basic Indicators of Develooment                          Annex C
Page 1
. ___ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _ __   1989  1990  1991  1992
GNP per capita - Atlas Method (in current US$)  1474    1362    1219  984
L. Population and vital statistics
Total population (in million)               2.11    2.13    2.13    2.15
Total Population growth                      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.8
Life expectancy at birth (in years)
Male                                     70      70       70      70
Femalo                                   74      74       74      74
Population age structure (n %)
0-14                                     23      23       24      24
15-64                                    64      64       65      65
65 and above                             13      13       11      11
Crude birth rate (perthousand)               17       17      17       17
Crude death rate (per thousand)               7        7       7        7
Infant mortality rate (per thousand)         28       28      28       28
11, Labor fome
Labor force, total (in thousands)           859      857     824      809
of which: Female (in pecent)             37      37    36.3    36.2
Labor force participation rate              65.7    64.9    81.9    60.2
Male                                   81.6    80.7    77.8    75.8
Female                                 49.4    48.7    45.5    44.2
Private Agricuitural employment (in thousands)  164  162     160      160
of whio: Female (In pecent)            47.6    47.3    46.7    48.7
Private Non-agricuitural employment On thousand  28   32      31       31
of  i: Female An percent)              22.6    22.6    22.5    22.5
Working age population On thousands)       1307    1320    1332    1344
Male                                    663     669      675     681
Female                                  644     651      657     683
Unemployment (in thousands)                 150      15     165      172
of which: Female (in percent)          51.9    51.1    50.4    49.6
Unemployment rate (in percent)              17.5    18.2      20    21.3
Source: Statistical Office of Macedonia. 1993.



69
Table 2: Balance-of-2avments                         Annex C
(In million of LUS$)                            Page 2
Actual     I Estim. I                 Projected
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
I. Cuffent Account      -400    -262      -11      -77      -43      -92      -96      -92
Trade Balance          -551    -416        -74     -27      -54      -77      -68      -59
Exports               577      648      889      911      918      974    1149    1504
Imports              1128    1064       963      938      971    1050    1216    1563
Services, exc. int.     123      214       97       -8       14       12       17       27
Receipts              815      552      371      161      151      160      189      247
Payments              492      338      274      169      137      148      172      220
Interest                 -58     -32      -64      -91      -58      -77      -86      -95
Receivable              0        0        0        4        7       10       14       18
Payable                56       32       64       95       65       87      100      113
Transfers, net            84     -28       30       49       55       50       40       35
Private                84      -28       30       25       20       30       30       35
Official                0        0        0       24       35       20       10        0
11. CaoitalAccount      -53    -189    -179    -110    -144           30       30       50
M & LT Capital,net      -63      -90    *113    -109    -227           3      -10       47
Disbursements          60       14        9               172      109       90      102
Amortization          123      104      122      109      113      107      100       55
Clearing of arrears                                       286
Bilaterals, ne.i.                                            83       27       40        3
Short-tern Capital,net   10      -99      -86       *1
Errors & Omissions,net  434      424       75       44        0
1+11 Overall Balance     -19     -27    -115    -143    -187         -83      -66      -41
Change in Arrears        19       27      174        0       49       52       50       48
Interest                1        7       58
Principal              18       20      116
Resch/Debt Relief                                           117       21       16       13
Chanae NFA                0        0      -59      143       21      -11       -0      -20
Gross Reserves                                    146      -53      -40      -40      -80
IMF liabilHites                                     3      -63      -34      -34      -35
Source: Ministly of Development. FYR of Macedonia: Bank estimates



70
Table 3: General Govemment Budaet                        Annex C
Page 3
(Dener nifions)                    (percent of GSP)
-- 1991    1992    1993   1994        1991   1992   1993   1994
I. Total Revenue and Grants              418    4,639  24,474   60,681  36.8%  28.1%  34.3%    41.4%
Central Budget Revenue                   207    2,238   13,113   33,890  18.2%  13.6%  18.4%    23.1%
Central BudgetTax Revenue              196    2,193   11,376   31,328  17.2%  13.3%  15.9%     21.4%
Profit tax                             9      183     652     1,055   0.8%   1.1%   0.9%h    0.7%
Personal Income tax                   63     731    3,318    8,083   5.5%   4.4%   5.5%      5.5%
TumoverTax                            98      903    4,874    17,353   8.6%   5.5%   6.8%    11.8%
Taxes on Foreign Trade                24      370    1,593    4,037   2.1%   2.2%   2.2%     2.8%
Other taxes                            2       6      339      800   0.2%   0.0%   0.5%      0.5%
Nontax Revenue                          11       45    1,737    2,562   1.0%   0.3%   2.4%      1.7%
Foreign Grants                             0        0       0         0   0.0%   0.0%   0.0%      0.0%
Extrabudgetary funds and local entIdes   211    2,401   11,361   26,791  18.6%  14.5%  15.9%     18.3%
of which: Pension Fund                  97    1,116   5,954   16,189   8.5%   6.8%   8.3%     11.1%
Health-Care Fund                56      683    3,556    8,703   4.9%   4.1%   5.0%      5.9%
Unemployment Fund                6       57     342     1,343   0.5%   0.3%   0.5%      0.9%
II. Total Exoendtures                    459    5,792   31,618   67,921  40.4%  35.1%  44.3%     46A%
Central Budget Expendture                207    3,135   16,502   34,473  18.2%  19.0%  23.1%     23.5%
Current Expendtures                      197    3,020   16,077   34,077  17.3%  18.3%  22.5%    23.3%
GoodsandServices                      119    1,682   10,142    19,264  10.6%  10.2%  14.2%    13.2%
Wages and Salaries                 61    1,089   6,291    12,310   5.4%   6.6%   8.8%      8.4%
Other Goods                        55      305    2,251     3,701   4.8%   1.8%   322%     2.5%
Defense                             3      288    1,600    3,253   0.3%   1.7%   22%       2.2%
Transfers                              78      771    3,450    10,882   6.8%   4.7%   4.8%     7A%
of which: Reform support for                                  3,130                           2.1%
Bank RehabIlitaon                                         2,930
Pnvatization Agency Budget                                 200
Interest                                0      567    2,485    3,931   0.0%   3A%   3.5%       2.7%
Domestc                               0       13    1,751     3,250   0.0%   0.1%   2.5%     2.2%
Foreign                               0      554      734      681   0.0%   3A%   1.0%       0.5%
Capital Expendkures                        7      100     320       396   0.6%   0.6%   0.4%      0.3%
Reserves                                   3       15     105        0   0.3%   0.1%   0.1%       0.0%
Extrabudgetary funds and local entites   252    2,658   15,116    33,448  22.2%  16.1%  21.2%    22.8%
of which: Pension Fund                 114    1,337    9,542   20,483  10.0%   8.1%  13.4%     14.0%
Health-Care Fund                79      702    3,557    8,703   7.0%   4.3%   5.0%      5.9%
Unemployment Fund                6       69     504    1,355   0.5%   0.4%   0.7%       0.9%
1Il. Overal Balance                      (41)  (1,153)  (7,144)   (7,240)  -3.6%  -7.0% -10.0%   -4.9%
(exc. Extrabudg.funds)                    0     (897)  (3,389)    (583)  0.0%  -5.4%  -4.7%     -0.4%
IV, Financina                             41    1,153    7,144    7,240   3.6%   7.0%  10.0%      4.9%
Domestic                               ..       ..      ..        5,544   ..    ..    ..         3.8%
Banking System                       ..      ..      ..           0    ..    ..    ..         0.0%
Accumulation of Arreamv             ..       ..      ..        5,544   ..    ..    ..         3.8%
Foreign                                ..       ..      ..        1,658   ..    ..    ..         1.1%
Disbursements                       ..       ..      ..       11,761   ..    ..    ..         8.0%
World Bank                        ..      ..       ..       6,575   ..    ..    ..          4.5%
Bilaterals                        ..      ..       ..       5,186   ..    ..    ..          3.5%
Amorization                          -       ..      ..       10,103   ..    ..    ..         6.9%
|cA Arrears Clearing w Mufflilateral  ..     ..      ..        8,622   ..    ..    ..         5.9%
Sources: NBM and Ministn of Finance: Bank staff estimates.



71
ANNEX D
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS



72
FYR Macedonia: Timetable of Key Proceng Events
1.        Time taken to prepare:                     Four months
2.        Project prepared by:                        Government with assistance of
IBRD staff
3.        Identification and pre-appraisal mission:   November, 1993
4.        Appraisal:                                  December, 1993
5.        Negotiations:                              January 1994
6.        Planned Board Presentation:                 Febnay 8, 1994
7.        Planned effectiveness:                      Febnrary 16, 1994
8.        Expected project completion:               June 30, 1995
9.        Relevant SAR:                               None



73
ANNEX E
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN FYR MACEDONIA



74                                           ANNEX B
Page 1 of 2
SrATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
A. STAM           OF BANK LOANS W
(As of December 31, 1M)
US$ Million
Loan     Fiscal                                                                  (Less Cancellations)
N91.-    AA. errv_                                Prolect                       _ Loan    Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans bene g enties located In the FYR Madonia                  293.2
Of WhiSh:  ALS           and Prow= Loom                                         -
Ioans Under Disbrsment: J
2338-3   1984    E1el. Makedonija   Third Power Transmion Project                 5.4
Total                                      298.6
Of Which: Repaid                      18
Total Now Held by the Bank                 IQ"
Total Amount Sold                           09
Of Which: Repaid                       09
Total Undisbursed
g/  The status of these projects Is desaibed in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in ecution, which
is updated twice yearly and cclted to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/ Represents FYR Macedonia's portion of loans made to the former Yugoslavia which are not yet fully repaid,
indluding a fully disbursed subloan made to a FYR Macedonian entity under the stM disburszg La. 2790-YU
(Industty Energy Consevaton & Substitution Project).
/  Disbursements under loans benefitting entities within FYR Macedonia were suspendd on June 8, 1992. The
Republic has been on non-accrual satus since September 16, 1992.



75
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBUC OF MACEDONIA
B. ZATT OF MC DE NTS
(As of December 31, 1993)
Gross Commitments
Fisc-l    -US$ Milion-
xgg      .~QJObHQ.or        M_   of Business                            .Loan       E       1 L
1980     SMSIE Yugo          Small & Medium-Scale Enteprie                43                  4.3
1982      Ruen eKocani      Automotive and Accemories                     10.6      -        10.6
1986     Jugobanca           Development Finance Companies                7.3                 7.3
Total Gross Commitments I'                   22.2               22.2
Less Cancelaons, Terminations, Exange
Adjustments, Repayments, Writeoffs, Sala    43   -
Total C:ommtments Now Hold by IFC            7. 9               22
Total Undisbursed
Total Outstandingf                           .7.9      -
Janusy 14, 1994
L/  Does not include Syndicated Inesments



IBRD 25501
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA ,
..  ,...A                                                             -  FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
-                     Presevo       ..~~~.  ~~             ~                        I                       /                    MACEDONIA
Polonkai9   G\Guetshto                 BULGAR I A
'Bkr')s  \Sa3hee      m                                                                                                          Majo , _  *---e  Major cities
o        Selected cities
To..    SKOPJE    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~               \  e~~-~*                                                    National Capital
Koca*  n _ 9 <  in;   ,'   ;                         [               _        Primary roads
Secondary roads
w   ^ /   11  0  \   0s   i/n/  1               Electrified railroads
f A,                                                                                                                                                        -             Other railroads
/tiSop; <  V i  t  -   t   rT>rW   7 Stip  j  +   Airports
Radovis                                /                                       f g ~      \ ISpot elevations in meters
Rivers
Sfrumico                                       - S   ,   w !!     -.-   -    International boundaries
0              is             30 NLES
()      )                (     ~          f  g                                                   j z    tu  n,.. TbnIndo,Ti. o, dnnni,,oTio,. ,d my ohw, inftmIo
A.. on ihi op do n iply on th. pdof Th1EE. Wo oRook G.n
Li  /-y t                                                                                                   hessoloniki                                .,- tn    . 1g , ofyyn  odn, od
K~rnA;n.s      or notptntto f .oh boondorin
(SLOVAK REP. .-J    UKRAINE
AuSTRIA     _              1
^                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR HUNGAR
FED REP
Kor,,o,                        YUOLAI 
7 BULGARIA
ITALY
TURKEY
0                                                                                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~GREECE
-Thematikos
Kdlpos
JANUARY 1994~



